ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.1.0	The session begins. Very good morning to all of you. The list of questions to answer orally is in the folder. In accordance with Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning as the first item on the agenda. Thus, I am sure that, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Esther Niubó of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has delegated her vote to the spokesman of her parliamentary group, Mrs Eva Granados. And I take this opportunity to welcome Angels Martínez, who returned to the session today. Very welcome. [[Greetings.]] Let's make sure you're all right. [[Ask the Government about the fight against the poor]] [[310-00109/11]] The first point of the order of the day are asked to the Government. The first question is about the struggle against the poor, formulated for Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.2.0	Honourable Counselor, good morning. The independence process has been a melee of social value to alleviate social tensions, and also anaesthetizing, therefore, to numb memory. But we remember, Counselor, that now more than half a year ago you and President Puigdemont have announced a great battery of social measures. We have passed the first third of the legislature and, if we follow that, this will indeed be an exceptional legislature: exceptionally axis, sterile and empty. The government promised us a law to fight against the housing emergency, and we're still waiting for it. They assured us a deal with the electrics, and we're still waiting. They've announced a guaranteed income, and we're still waiting. They guaranteed us a family support law, and we're still waiting. We've been advanced by a lot of social-thematics-pending rules, and we're still waiting, Counselor. Are there the concrete measures? When will the government use its vast powers to fight poverty and inequality?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.3.0	Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.4.0	Thank you, President. For us, the independence process is very different from what you expose. For us, it is to make a new and better welfare state, which means to meet social needs, which means to prevent inequalities and lack of opportunity, which means to strengthen social rights as guarantors of democracy for this future Catalan state, and it means to provide services and services suitable for each person and with the highest quality of care. So what we're preparing and doing at these times is a welfare state that is agile, clean to the citizenry, effective in solving social problems. We are also building a state with more work, but decent work, because decent work is the best social policy, as we have always said. Of the measures that you have commented, many are developed. You know that we've already prepared the water theme, that we already have the water chord, and a lot of other issues that we're going to break down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.6.0	Honourable Counselor, listen to me, I propose that you are fixed on a person who can guide you very well in his strategy, according to the speech you have given me: it is Nigel Farage, who has remained free and has followed a speech that you will hear very well, a speech... Because you are making exactly the same speech as Brexit, it is saying: "We want to get out, so we will live better. It's the speech you just made, and there's already someone available to guide them. But while he asks him to enter the scene, he advises him to enter the scene; we carry already six months of government. Agafi social policy for banyas, leaders of concrete and urgent measures to fight against exclusion. He will say to us: "I have no presuppositions – I have no presuppositions. Look, you who are so created at the time of interpreting the laws, you who find money under the stones when it comes to maintaining the independentist plot, you must activate Article 39 of the Public Finance Act and extend the urgent presuppositional parties to deal with social needs; you will advise, Article 39 of the Public Finance Act. And while they are patriots of truth, they demonstrate what they so much say, that they believe Catalonia: they do not continue to divide and break Catalonia, they raise the trenches of the process and lead a policy of parliamentary consensus and unity struggle against the poor and exclusion. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] Answer the councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.8.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman, for giving us lessons, because, with regard to the State and what you have done, from the government to the State, you have much to desire. But, anyway, we'll just tell him that if we contribute 19.4_percent of total admissions to the State and only go back between 9 and 11..., look, here we have many policies to be able to make social. But, more than anything else, I'm talking about you, about what we can do, when the state as a government and you, the most advocates of this government... and, therefore, if in the government they have a flagrant insensitivity to social policies... Because, if not, I explained to myself: in helping to contract for disabled people, which is a good social policy, Catalonia has allocated 42_million euros; you have reduced it to 28, when it was up to them to put it to you. At the CET, we advanced 33_million euros, when they were to be charged from the Government of Madrid, and we did not charge or five this year. I am no longer talking about the 0.7 of the management that all Catalans and Catalans contribute, and, therefore, we have nothing here; therefore, a social spoli. And I don't explain it to her about dependence and everything else. We're working, we're working in concert. The proof is all we've done with the third sector, all we've got ahead of us, and the week that we're also presenting an agreement with the Federation of Municipalities and the Association of Municipalities on energy issues. Therefore, we work, we move forward, much different from those who can't and can't make government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about consumer incidences in the summer campaign]] [[310-00104/11]] Second question to the government, about consumer incidences in the summer campaign. The question is posed by Mr Fernando de Páramo, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.10.0	Well, thank you, President. The operation out of these summer vacations is being very complicated. The last days of June and these days of July have been a real chaos at Prat Airport in Barcelona. From 27 June to 6 July, for example, more than two hundred flights are cancelled and 35,000 users are affected. Passengers unable to fly, delays, cancellations, lost connections, overbookings... In short, whole families and passengers abandoned to their fate, unable to reach their jobs or go on vacation. All this I say to you with knowledge of cause, because I myself, this Member of Parliament, have lived it, unfortunately, in the first person during these days, and I can assure you that no one has helped me or informed me during those days. In short, there has been no response to the users affected in time, in a crisis as serious as this. Logically, you don't have all the blame; it would be unfair for me to come here and tell you that you are the culprits of what's going on. But they do have a responsibility to attend to, to report on, and to assist those affected in everything they need. I wanted to know, Mr Councillor, what the protocols of action have been; what measures will be taken to ensure that this does not happen again in the next holiday or in the return operation, and whether they will continue to improvise with all this crisis management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.11.0	Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.12.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Mr. MP, look, when they affect illusions, hopes and holidays of many families and many people, this non-improvised government, this government demands. And sometimes he does it even though he doesn't have the competence or responsibility for it. And I'll explain what we've done and what we're doing. On the 28th, when the first scener passed, we contacted each other and made a request from the Catalan Consumer Agency to Vueling for information about flights and the things they are doing. On day 1, which is repeated again, we make a _second request and, moreover, we talk to EASA because we have points of information, because EASA is responsible, according to the European, Community regulations, for following these people. We're demanding that they come and wander. As we do not go, we decide that the dilluns, two-quarters back in the morning, we will put people, inspectors of the Catalan Agency of Consumers, on the third floor of exits and landings of the airport of Prat. And it does; there are every day from two-quarters again in the morning to two-quarters of god of the evening. And let's also call the AENA address, with Councilman Rull and myself, to demand an explanation and a contingency plan. Then he did it who was looking for him, who was the government of the state, but he did it after us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.14.0	Thank you, President. The meetings are very well, it is very good to ask for explanations, but what I tell you is that on the street, at Prat airport, these measures have not been noticed. And if not, go to Prat airport and talk to the users, talk to the outraged passengers who are these days without being able to move from the airport. We have asked the director of the Catalan Consumer Agency to show us how the affected users have been treated, and also to know what she is saying to those families and what she is telling all those users, to those thousands of users who have run out of holidays and who have spent hours and hours thrown at an airport. We have also put forward a proposal in this Parliament to help affected users and guarantee their rights. And of course we will also do so in the Congress of Deputies, to demand explanations about airport planning, so that each administration assumes its responsibility. Do not turn this crisis that affects so many citizens into a political struggle. What has happened requires solutions, solutions from the Government of Spain, of course, but also solutions from the Government of the Generalitat. The competences are complementary. As you pass the ball between the Government of the Generalitat and the Government of Spain, there are many users who are paying for it and, unfortunately, always pay for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.16.0	Yeah. Look, as far as the Catalan Consumer Agency is concerned, what we've done is help us make 368 complaints, which we've already done. We have put ourselves..., we have addressed Vueling because I change the protocols for whether hotels are needed, if taxis are needed, if displacement is needed, and it has made them more flexible. Vueling is now in contact, as well as from the Catalan Consumer Agency, with all those affected, to give the account number to enter the 250_euros or 400_euros to which they are entitled if the flight is suspended. The most important thing is that it was said and a contingency plan was made because this was repeated never happened again. Every time there's less delay, every time there's less desire to cancel and every time... because there's more personal reversal, more planes and more demanding. Every day we'll follow them and have a systematic meeting because it completes all the contingency plans they've announced. And in the matter of consumption, if there is any lack of information or if there is any contract that has been incomplete, they will be punished after the correspondent issuing sanction.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about working conditions in the meat sector]] [[310-00101/11]] The third question concerns the working conditions of the meat sector. The question is posed by Mr Albert Botran, of the Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.18.0	Thank you, President. Madam Councillor, the Socialist Group was addressing it in plenary at this very session of control, to ask it for the working conditions of workers in the meat sector in Osona, which is now more known every time: low wages, hours out of the law, incalculable rhythms, inhuman, without working rights, material in charge of the same workers... Some conditions that could be affecting about two thousand workers, according to some journalistic investigations. Some conditions that are miserable, in good faith with the fraud of the law that is related to the question of the subcontracting of false cooperatives. From this question, which has been addressed, three things have passed, if not, which should be taken into account and which is why we need to ask this question today: the success of the mobilisation of the Esfosa workers, the result of the camp that they kept at the gates of the country; the motion for a resolution approved last week unanimously to the Treball Commission, for which the department was to step up the work inspections to clarify whether this fraudulent use of subcontracting in cooperatives is actually being made, and, finally – and possibly the most important – the fine of 5.7_million euros that its department, through the Treball Inspectorate, has made this fraudulent use of subcontracting in cooperatives, and, finally – and possibly the most important – the fine of 5.7_million euros that its department, through the Treball Inspectorate, has made this fraudulent use of subcontracting in cooperations, and finally – and possibly the most important – the fine of 5.7_million euros that its department has made in fact that it has made a false contract in the same case. The question is: is it compromising, in its department, to intensify the inspections of work in the field of cooperatives in the natural sector in order to clarify this fraud of law and to force the enterprises to regularize it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.20.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Member, for the question. First of all, as I said in the previous question on this same subject, we are talking about a typical sector in which not everyone is on the conditions you have said, which represents 4_percent of GDP, with 38,000 workers throughout Catalonia and Osona, in concrete terms, 8,200 workers. It's true that these conflicts that have come out are not the model of work we want, it's not the model of work, and that's why we started working from the very beginning. In fact, I explained that on April 14th we had made a table of unions and all employers in the business sector to talk about these issues. There's a firm commitment to going to work. June 23rd created the concert table, with a special technical group that analyses case-by-case..., with the maximum problem there is at every moment. For these, which you say in concrete terms, I met with the same business committee, they explained the situation to me and on June 24th, we resolved, through the mediation of the department, the vacancy that the workers had. Therefore, we have been working and the proposal is to continue working there. To tell him that today there is a table which is where all employers and all trade unions commit that there is a stable coordination table; to make a joint manifest in which the appropriate state collection of the industry will apply, that to many companies is not ugly, and, therefore, that will be sure; to make a strong impulse for the sector only in Catalonia, to work with a code of good practices and, obviously, as you said, with the Labour Inspectorate we will continue to work there. The guy who went through Telefónica was a year old. At this point I can tell you that there are open inspections, that there are sanctions to be done, but, as you can imagine, I can't explain the detail because they are long-term actions, they are actions that will be solved the same way as false contracts have been resolved. And, therefore, they are likely to see the results. We're working hard. And, besides, as we asked that the local world also work there, they can't enter the prisons but we already have an agreement with the mayor of Vic, with the mayor of Santa Eugenia de Berga, Esquirol and Sant Vicenç de Torelló, to make a municipal table to talk about all the labor issues and everything that can affect the social issues most forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. Ask the government about politics... [[Albert Botran and Pahissa ask to speak.]] The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.22.0	Okay. Simply, we, therefore, celebrate that it is a priority, we insist that these inspections be intensified. Because the successful inspections are vital to the complicity of the workers, it was in the case of the false autonomes of Movistar, they are the ones who bring the evidence. The sector of the courts is highly mobilized, and this makes us think that from there it will be able to clarify this fraudulent use. Yesterday, the camp began in front of Le Porc Gourmet, in Santa Eugenia de Berga, which is one of these cases where a company that has a dozen workers turns out that in turn it articulates macro-cooperatives with hundreds of workers, and, therefore, in different conditions and that, moreover – and to end – they take advantage of the condition of emigrants of most of their workers intertwining exploitation with racism.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Ask the Government about equality policies]] [[310-00102/11]] Fourth question to the Government on equality policies. The question is posed by Mrs Marta Moreta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.24.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, just over a week from now, it will be a year since this Parliament approved the 17/2015 Law of effective equality of women and men. The approval of the law marked the times for its deployment. At the end of the six-month period, a rule on the inclusion of clauses relating to the equality of women and men in contracts and grants in the field of the administration of the Generality had to be drawn up and approved in collaboration with the Catalan Institute of Women. And a year ago, many more actions remain pending, such as assigning to autonomous and public bodies linked or dependent on the Generality the responsibility for the application of gender cross-cutting in planning, managing and evaluating their policies, not to mention the training that should be given to the staff of various departments or the approach to masculistic violence and the empowerment of women. And I could list a long list of violations of the law passed by this Parliament. And just 'that most of the incompliments don't cost money, it's just a question of going to work. Counsel, when you intend to make the deployment of the law, taking into account that those assumptions that four days ago were not approved retailing a 26_per_cent respect the 2012 assumptions that you approved Convergence and Union?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.25.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.26.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam Member of the Commission, this Government has maintained its commitment to effectively deploy the whole equality law between women and men – that is all. You know that the Constitutional Court, at the instigation of the People's Party Government, has suspected certain articles. We keep the pulse in this need to deploy the conjunction of the law. You have not made any reference but these articles talk about the ways in which we can manage, as a society to fight discrimination in a particularly sensitive area, where these inequalities still give in a very cruel way, that is the world of work. Therefore, we are implementing following the planned calendar, without details to which you refer. That is not true, honourable Member: the assumptions that could not be approved in this chamber did not provide for any detail with regard to equality policies and not with regard to the actions of struggle against male violence. I will detail it – I will do it in all two interventions – which are these aspects. You made reference to the contract, a fundamental aspect of the law. We have this guide for the inclusion of contractual clauses. In fact, on July 27 there was a meeting, precisely, to close this proposal in which we have been working very closely and bringing it to the Administrative Contract Advisory Board, following the whole process that needs to be addressed. We have also worked very hard and we will continue to do so from the interdepartmental committee, where all government departments are represented, as this is an absolutely cross-cutting policy. In this sense, we have already announced that we also have the Observer for Gender Equality, a strategic instrument foretelling the Law of Equality that will come into operation in just a few months.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.27.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.28.0	Counselor, you know as well as I do that this law is not unfolding as it does, and that is your responsibility and your parliamentary group, because last week the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes, to the Commission of Igualtat, voted against a motion for a resolution that specifically called for the deployment of the law. I could allege, to say the least, what you have just said: that the Constitutional Court has suspended eleven articles of this law. But, look, do you know what's going on? , which still remains fifty-three to go unfolding. And, therefore, its performance has no justification whatsoever. And, finally, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the month of February, entered the register their appearance to the Igualtat Commission to explain the deployment of the law, precisely, and their appearance was approved on April 26. He will advise, not only does he not make the deployment of the law, but only that he fails to complete the Rules of Parliament, which in his article 58.4 says that the appearances of the advisers must be substantiated at the end of a_month, counting the day they approved. Counselor, how does it justify what is unjustifiable? Is this your vision of giving priority to the law of effective equality of women and men? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.29.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.30.0	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes did not vote against the Deployment of the Law of Equality – did not vote against the Deployment of the Law –, voted against a proposal for a trapping resolution in which you fell, which was called for by the Deployment... [[remorse of the voice]] With the exception of the articles that are pending before the Constitutional Court... [[Some applause.]] And, as I said before, we will keep the effects of the suspicious articles and the force of the whole law, because these articles refer to a very sensitive environment, in which we want to fight and not throw the towel, which is the world of work. This is the difference between you and me. Regarding the appearance, I have required that I be summoned, I can prove it, and it is the Parliament that has not quoted me yet. I am fully disposed, and many months ago, to come. But that's all right, Congresswoman. For you, the tweets; we will continue to do the work to unfold the law. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the Hospital of Sant Joan Despí Moisès Broggi]] [[310-00103/11]] Five questions about the Hospital Moisès Broggi, by Sant Joan Despí. The question is posed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group's Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.32.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the health system – we have said it many times here – is at the limit. We are talking today about the Moisès Broggi Hospital, a hospital that has lost concert tickets in the last four years of €37.5 million. In 2015, to address this situation, we presented a living plan in agreement with the CatSalut, which provided for the opening of some beds that would allow you to drain your emergency service and open other essential services. CatSalut committed to making a complementary contribution of 2,7_millions in 2015, which it completed, and of 4,5_millions in 2016, which the Generality is now refusing to provide and breaks the established compromise and, therefore, the same viability plan agreed with the CatSalut. That is why I ask you, Mr. Counsellor, if you think, your department, respond to the contractual commitments made, among other things, by the same Servant Català de la Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.33.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.34.0	Thank you, Madam President. The honourable Member, in fact, the Moisès Broggi Hospital, has some problems of origin; problems, of course, to the structural type emergencies, of architectural design, and a problem, too, of drainage of the same emergencies, which, moreover, intensifys especially in winter. And there is one other problem: that it was inaugurated on February 27th and when the policy of presupposed adjustments began the concert of the following years was based on the concert of the first year, which was the year 2010. And as it was inaugurated on the 27th of February, the 2010 concert was, effectively, a deut_mesos concert; the concerts of the following years have been deut_mesos concerts; therefore, effectively, there is an abnormality in the concert of the Hospital Moisès Broggi, abnormality that you have to see with the origin of its laying in march and that since the Cat Salut has always recognized itself. That is why, indeed, a plan has been made of viability to attack, as at least, the structural problem. And that's why the viability plan actually provides for opening the ninth unit, the thirty-eight-bed hospital, just like the others; that's why the viability plan provides for expanding the emergency area and, effectively, this viability plan, which would be reversed – I make it clear: investment – has a value of 4_million_i_mig euros. But you know perfectly well that in a situation of presuppositional prorogation what is not possible are new investments. So, honourable Member, if at these times we were supposed to be talking about all this, but in a situation of presuppositional prorogation, it's impossible to have a viability plan for new investments, huh? That said, the 2016 assignment has just closed and is not closed. So we have to see what's left of it. And the 2017 assignment doesn't have to be so conditioned even for 2016; therefore, it will also be negotiated differently from 2016's.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.36.0	Thank you, President. Let's start with an affirmation, Mr. Counselor. Do you know what's going on? That on this assumption, this one that you presented a project, but which was not approved, had not been provided for these 4,6_million euros. Therefore, the decision of his department not to comply with the agreements was taken long before this Parliament drew any conclusions. It's not an excuse, in this case; it's never, but in this case, it's still less. Next thing. Yes, the Moisès Broggi has structural problems, but what is harder is that when you, or the previous government, applied the details, they applied them so linearly that they did not meet the structural deficiencies, and, above all, they did not respond to the idiosyncrasy of each of the centers where it applied. Locking these beds in units 8 and 9 means not draining the emergency service, means returning to the col·lapse, means that 450,000 inhabitants, which is the reference population, will again have a lower assignment to the other equivalent centers, and above all we will fail until and until all that has been approved by this Parliament, that we will not be more than twenty-four hours in the emergency service. Counselor – and to end – I feel these days various things of commitment that you are facing with hospitals. Please, don't joke. Those commitments I made, I complimented them, because, if not, we will be back as the mayors and the assemblies of these areas of reference are at this point in time, pending their failure to carry them out and even to lose the autonomy of management.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.37.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.38.0	Madam Member, the viability plan was a proposal that made the board of directors of the Moisès Broggi, but it was not a compromise of the CatSalut. But, look, do you know what's going on? The Department of Health's commitment to Baix Llobregat is so, so, so great that..., you know that we can only do an important work in 2017, us? Do you know that we can only do an important work? And do you know what it's like? The expansion of the Hospital de Viladecans. And, I'm predicting that we might be left with no presuppositions, we'll be able to shield a single work of enlargement, a single important hospital work, including in case we're attached to the presuppositional extension, and it's that of the Hospital of Viladecans. I went to Viladecans before I knew whether or not we would have a presupposition, and I explained: "This is the only work that I have been able to shield; therefore, be calm, that if we have a presupposition we will do it, but if we go to the presuppositional prorogation, too. Because we were already afraid that some of you wouldn't help us get the sanitation out of this country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.39.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the promotion of the electric vehicle]] [[310-00106/11]] Sisena asks the government, about the promotion of the electric vehicle. The question is posed by Mr. Joan Ramon Casals, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.40.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Baiget, well, we all know the importance of the electric vehicle in the future, but in the background it is already a reality that is being established in the world, and where Catalonia we have an area that can be key to the development of the electric vehicle, our automotive industry, which we are studying from this Parliament, from a parliamentary committee. We all know that, if all goes well, the year you see, even from an industrial point of view, Catalonia will succeed in building, even more..., more cars and even more vehicles, and everything that Italy, therefore, is in this line, and that we are, too, entering the electric vehicle, which is one of the most important future industrialists; but, moreover, apart from industry, what above all generates are very important environmental benefits. And we also know, because you have explained it in this Parliament, and we also know why the Government of the Generality has approved it, which is betting on the deployment of the network..., of the deployment of the electric vehicle network in this country, because it is one of the keys to this development. Many bets have been made: better legislation, better access to tolls, better access to parking lots, easier together..., but one of the keys that makes – and is shown – that there can be real increase in sales of the electric vehicle is access to charging stations in a country and in a territory. This is clearly seen in countries such as Sweden, Norway or France, where they have actually increased this network and increased a lot, by over 10_per_cent, precisely, they sell these types of vehicles. At these times, Catalonia is not where we should be at this point, and the figures are that we have 19 – only 19 – quick loading points or 42 semi-fast loading points. We know that you are working in this sense, there is a plan approved for the Government of the Generality and we believe that it is good that in this Parliament you can explain who are the objectives and policies that must make Catalonia leader in electric vehicles, both manufacturing and especially sales and use.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.41.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.42.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. MP, as you said, one of the main actions to improve energy efficiency and emission reduction is the empowerment of electric mobility. And that means, necessarily, to increase the fleet of electric vehicles, especially in the case of private vehicles and fleet vehicles, which is not happening now. And, to get it, there's more electric cars coming. And because more electric cars are coming, three things have to happen. First, that there is a price that is acceptable; and, for this, all governments, therefore, give a cent; the Catalan government also, for example, giving free tolls or facilitating, many together, for example, free parking in the bad areas or in the green areas. Second of all, technology needs to help. In these moments, the batteries are already helping and each time they have more autonomy, they are making autonomy of 200 kilometers, there are proposals of autonomy of more than 300 kilometers. I think we'll be in a range of 350-400 kilometers by the time we're done or by the time we're done. And then, in the third place, if there are electric vehicles, these should be able to recharge. And this is where we're flowing. Because in Catalonia we have 1,300 petrol stations, but we have 19 points of fast refueling to our refuelers. And that's what we need to avoid. So, what do we need? That there is a slow flow... – that it is the one that can be donated in the garages of each school, in the parking spaces of each school – now there are not 4,000, so we want to move to 25,000. Those semi-rapid recharges that are to municipal equipment, hospitals, shopping centers, that in three hours you can carry the cent_per_cent, so, that now there is 40, we want to move to 400. And for what it does to fast recharging, those that you can load in twenty minutes an 80_per_cent, so, that now there is 19, we want to move to 100. And how are we gonna do that? So, we will inject €5.8 million to induce an additional investment of 8 million more, but especially – because it is not a price problem, but a problem of agreeing many institutions – we have created a table in which there are seventy private institutions and administrations to push, once and for all, the implementation of a good network of rechargers to the reels in the field of electric vehicles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.43.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about help for children and young people in summer activities]] [[310-00107/11]] Seven questions, about help for children's and young people's activities in summer. The question is posed by Mrs Anna Caula, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.44.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, we have not closed the 2015-2016 school year and so on. A time full of new experiences, only to observe the colorful taques that are moving for our towns and cities, enjoying sports facilities, cultural centers and squares. An era of us estimuls, of living and living together and learning with different themes and methodologies than formal winter education, but essential for the integral education of our infants. During the summer, we look at our educational community: couples, workshops, open centres, colonies, campuses and others that lack the involvement of a strong social fabric and association that promotes the cultural diversity of our country with the support of the consistors and the government, with a high territorial impact. As a society we must guarantee equal opportunities in childhood and act before the poor child, a measure that directly affects the prevention or minimization of future social inequalities. Basically, covering two lifetimes: providing resources to families to be able to access these types of activities from education in the classroom as a tool for family reconciliation and child education, and covering areas of socio-economic deficiencies of working class families in a limited situation that can prevent quality nutrition that during the school year is covered for help with the fooder's scholarships. But what's going on in the summer? What measures does your advice have to respond to these social demands? How does the government respond to these social inequalities? And do we know that the government introduced measures and various lines of help, could it give us concrete results? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.45.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.46.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. In fact, you have explained exactly the objectives we have as the government. Participation in summer is very high, of children. In fact, we expect more than 230,000 young people and girls to enjoy the activities, 31,000 monitors serving these activities and more than 5,000 activities in the country. All these activities organized for education entities in the school, for associations, businesses and institutions in which the government is involved. We, as the government, do not lower our guard and push for measures to deal with the situations that you have very well explained, which are around vulnerability and, above all, the poor. Infants have to live... all infants have to live intensively education, education at school, but also a good diet and the footpaths that are needed. Therefore, we have the inequity alert and for this more than 9,500 infants in this situation of vulnerability, which we have controlled, can enjoy special programs. The programs..., we have developed the open centers, therefore, means continued attention to infants and adolescents at risk, where the activities will be from dilluns to divenders, six hours daily, plus two or three beds. Here we will have 2,600 seats, which means 600 more seats than the year passed, although we do not have any new premises. Therefore, we have made a great effort because this is possible. The program«Play and read, which promotes eating habits, with €55,000, that two thousand children and children will enjoy in twenty-nine different equipments of the territory, in twenty-two different municipalities. Beques, in a situation of vulnerability, for all those people who need them, because we want to contribute to the equal opportunities of all children. A destination of 3,500 places, 250 more than in 2015, I repeat, with the same assumption extended. Therefore, we have to redistribute assumptions from other parties to put it here, because for us it is a priority. And, finally, "The estuary is yours, with places awarded between 65 and 100_per_cent to the entire national network of hostels, which come from an appreciation of the basic social assistance teams. Thus, 550.000 more euros for these places, more also..., a quantity greater than 2015; with a territorial extension superior of all entities, that we move from 5 federations to 13. Therefore, the government's effort is to be on the side of inequality, to improve social policies and, above all, to be on the side of people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.47.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.48.0	...vulnerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.49.0	Thank you, thank you. [[Ask the Government about the judicial persecution in relation to the participatory process of 9 November]] [[310-00108/11]] The next question to the Government, about the judicial persecution in relation to the participatory process of 9 November. The question is posed by Mr Lluís Llach, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.50.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the people who many years ago saw the birth of the imperfect Spanish democracy as if, among all of us, we could build an environment of coexistence and that from freedom, diversity and dialogue we could improve and perfect that tool that was born strongly coerced but that, also, at the end, opened a new and enlarged horizon. Years have passed and the restrictive interpretation, when not legally barroera, of that Constitution, has added the obsession of the governments of the State to impoverish the possibility of full realization of our country. All this has brought us to the current situation that this very Parliament is witnessing. An absolute majority of MEPs, voted for the people of Catalonia, are willing to gain independence. Now we have to face the last mockery of our collective freedom in an act that would be a definite scare against the Catalan institutions. The justice of our most important elected bodies, in full 21st century: a president, Artur Mas, Vice President Ortega and Councilwoman Rigau, will go to court accused of having contributed to the polls on 9 November. And, in order to finish the claus, a few previous dills were'sanitary that on the 19th of September the former councillor Francesc Homs will have to declare before the Supreme Court of Madrid. In short, this chain of disproposals, in which ministers of the Interior are involved, will serve the police services up to the State's legal system and its prosecutors, so as not to speak more about the Constitutional Court. It will only serve because in a democracy you can't run the ballot boxes, and this is the message why it is going to be transmitted when those who have put them are judged. It won't serve as anything, years against it, because with them too, it is two-million-strong and citizens' outburst that we are going to dedicate our will to it, and that, in a democracy, is an ancient perversion. It's not just a question, Counselor, it's also a firm prec. From Juntes pour el Yes we want to ask the Government what value it has for this judicial persecution and put us in its disposition to give a firm and joint response to this obvious democratic injustice. Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.51.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.52.0	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, honourable Member. Ras and short, for good, this persecution; for good. First of all, to thank him for his recovery, which is also ours, to President Mas, Irene Rigau, Joana Ortega and Francesc Homs, as you have said, now, quoted to declare before the Supreme Court on September 19th; it is a customized accusation, indeed, but it went far beyond his person and, at last, the much they represent. A flagrant, an unjust, a shameful judicialization of the policy to which we are already accustomed, but that's not the least harm, that's not the least injustice. The performance of the government and, therefore, of Mas, Ortega, Rigau and Homs was totally legitimate, was responsible and was fair to the law. At no time contradictory to the suspension decreed by the Constitution. In fact, when the CT stopped the participation process, it remained in the hands of volunteers – 40,930 volunteers – who became the actors of a democratic and participatory process. Those who are against the right to decide, those who are against the ballot boxes, tried to prevent them from being there on November 9, but the ballot boxes were there and, as you quite rightly said, more than 2,300,000 people exercised their democratic right, and in any normal state this would be a triumph of democracy. In change, in the Spanish State this has been pursued. A fundamental right like the right to sort, the right to choose, the right to vote. You asked what we would do, and it was available – what we already know –, Together for the Yes, Civil Society, so many entities and people who make their support and their ladder feel before this tremendous injustice. So, we will do everything we can to reverse these facts; we will not fail to demand before the Spanish Government, to which there is, if there is none, that this persecution ceases. And, of course – for the record – if this persecution does not cease, we will find a way to denounce it, to make it see before all democratic countries that it is an injustice without precedent. And as the same investigators said, we would do it again; we would do it again with the same pride and with the same democratic determination. We will seek this response, which will be joint, which will be rich, which will be cross-cutting and which, of course, will be entirely convincing to the eyes of the democratic world. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.53.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about energy policy]] [[310-00105/11]] Ninth question to the Government, on energy policy. Asks the question Mrs Hortènsia Grau, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.54.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, in the last three years this Parliament has approved, in various motions, various proposals for a resolution on energy policy in order to achieve more sovereignty, to make it more renewable, stable and efficient. Even the last man, approved at June, is committed to doing an audit, to reviewing the Pla d'Energie and climate change in Catalonia. At the same time, his Government, July 2015 – the former Government – announced, on drums and silverware, a national pact for energy transition to be signed at the end of 2015. Today, counselor, July 13, 2016, the government continues without energy policy, without leading this model change and we don't know what they're thinking about doing in this matter. That's what I'd like you to tell us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.55.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.56.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, today, July 13, unfortunately, the Government has very few, very few competitions in energy policy, because they are not what we would want, of course, and we would like to have all of them. But what we'll tell him and what we won't tell him, no; because the National Energy Transition Pact we're working on, and soon we'll present it to debate and debate all the parliamentary groups here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.57.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.58.0	Counselor, it's true that we have shared skills, but we do. And it's true that we could do more than we do, as did the community of Murcia. Miri, the law of the community of Murcia of renewable energies and energy efficiency. Obviously, Rajoy's execution brought her to the Constitutional and challenged her, but, look, it turns out that in May 2016 she came out favorably and they could promote self-consumption. By means of their autonomous skills they can establish, with a simple directive, the promotion of self-consumption and avoid the sun's tax. They did it. That's sovereignship, counselor; that's exercising energy sovereignty, which we don't do here. You tell me that they already have the energy transition plan, so, well, we'll wait to see if with these divides we can see it; because we're also pending that energy and climate change plan, which is the mark we have and which you, the government of Ciu, approved with the PP; they haven't yet explained to us what indicators they have supplemented, what assumptions; they didn't come to present it in this Parliament. That's why I'm telling you, counselor, that, look, the Government of Scotland, which is a referent for you, is working so that all of 2020's electricity demand is renewable. Here in Catalonia... – they have understood that the energy model is a state structure – here in Catalonia, as in contrast, since 2013 the installation of wind energy installed, we do not have any new wind park; we do not have any plan for nuclear shutdown or forecast; we have not done so for what it does to the audience of the distribution network, a compromise that you have acquired. I say to him: does he intend to confront his government with the necessary debate of energy policy in these months that remain in the legislature? Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.59.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Counselor responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.60.0	Yes, ma'am. The government will do it and it's doing it, and the skills you have are exercising them. You're talking about the energy audience of the network and the audience of the network; you're not just a fan, you're controlling, you're looking at the whole network that's in this country to prevent any interruptions that aren't justified. These interruptions, these last years, have been in the least, and if there is... the businesses that have to do it and have to self-control not do it, they are inspected and sanctioned, which is what the Government of Catalonia has to do. You were talking to me about renewables; here we could make a self-criticism all, but all, huh? The government and all of society. Because you say: "No new megawatt of wind energy has been set up. Obviously, because among other things, there was a moratorium and it couldn't be done, first. Secondly, why did the premium pay system change, and it is absolutely decisive to see if it is a fan of investment or not a fan of investment; and thirdly, we have to get all agreed, because, of course, if in fifteen years we have managed to put 1,200 megawatts of wind energy in this country, in eight years we can put 4,000, what was on the table? We can in all areas..., in all the ZDPs, and all those that have been done that have been judicially halted, so it has been impossible to do anything, and when something was meant to be done there has been a lot less consensus in the territory, if there have not been all the possible oppositions that are possessed, therefore, wind farms in certain areas. So, if we want renewable energies, here we have to row all, all of society, all of the country and all of the institutions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.61.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the feminist agenda of the Government]] [[317-00069/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political and social situation. The question is posed by Ms. Anna Gabriel, from the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.62.0	Hello, good morning, everyone. Mr President, as often happens, the popular movement, the street, the organized people, in this case feminism in its expression of feminist self-defence, have gone far ahead of the task that the institutions, the majority, the vast majority of which, still do not have a feminist agenda. It has been years that the feminist movement works with protocols to avoid masculinist aggressions in the context of the oci and the feast; it has been years that the evil feminist movement to affect all spheres, to end with the evil urpa of patriarchy, that they understand that our bodies, the bodies of women, are humble, touchable, assimitable, rapeable; a system that they understand that by the sea they can be assaulted and murdered. The feminist movement, therefore, continues to work to remember that when we die it is not. These days, we have re-placed the violations on the political and media agenda; these days we have learned that the City Assembly will be a person in the cases of the violations that have occurred; some, as you know, group violations. It is not causative, we understand, that it is a government that has a strong connection with the feminist movement, and that the city of Iruna has just had a very powerful organized feminism for many years, that it has had to walk a lot in solitary and that it has been much less widespread. According to the United Nations, one of two women will suffer a sexual assault on the length of our lives. In this sense, the European Agency of Fundamental Rights nailed that the year passed to Europe, 4_million women were raped, 10_percent of these violations perpetrated by more than one author; 62_million women of the European Union countries, the equivalent of the population of the United Kingdom, have been beaten or have been forced to have sexual relations. In addition to the confusing, difficult-to-find data, which can therefore still be higher than I have just said, it is clear that we must place the feminist agenda as country or state, if you prefer. So the question is, what is this government's feminist agenda?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.63.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.64.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, I share the analysis, the description of the reality we have and of the debts we have pending as a society, as a country. It is true, we still have many shortcomings, some structural ones, which therefore cost to eradicate, that it is not only that we approve of some laws, that they are, and that they are deployed, that they are unfolding, and that it goes beyond the commitments we share in this sense. Because we're talking about structural problems that have to do with secular cultures that have relegated the woman to a secondary or utilitarian role. And that, which they do not only condemn, but that we fight actively, to eradicate it, as you know, and sadly know many women who are victims, is not automatic. Therefore, we must persist, we must continue to do much more, even more, than standards require, and we must accompany those collections of people who are struggling and leading the forefront of the struggle for the recognition of all rights. The eradication of male-based violence is a priority of this Government, and this has to do with explicit decisions and other implicit means of communication, for example, with the media; for example, how the woman is presented in the media that are competent for the administration of this country; how, for example, the Catalonian Audiovisual Council can carry to the public prosecutor what is the setting up, what is the denigration of the woman to social media; how, also, we can get to pass with women and with victims and with violence against women that is going on – perhaps not so far, but is going on – in other ways, that we can also condemn violence against women and with victims and with violence against women that is going on – that is not likely, but that is happening – that is happening in other areas, that is, that is, that is to say, the banishment of the crime, or banishment. And in this sense the government, through the law, will do everything that is at their hands and will do so, I insist on it, absolutely convincingly, accompanying and letting themselves be accompanied by those collections that are, insisting on, leading and also putting their efforts so that we do not forget an assignment that we have so much to condemn and that sad..., the case, you mentioned, of the situation of Pamplona, therefore, that offers us some images that we must condemn and deeply regret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.65.0	Thank you very much, President. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.66.0	Yes, we ask, therefore, for multiple and radical measures, obviously. Recognition of the role of the feminist movement, to know that we still have companies that face prison penalties to defend the right to abortion, that follow the feminist movement that leads, that instil public policies, and suggest that at the door of a full set of major festivals and expressions of the oci massi the Government announce an institutional campaign to remember that it does not intend to tolerate any aggression and that it will also be personified in the cases of violations that can be produced – that we hope it will not be so. The women, when diem« no, are no. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.67.0	Eleventh question to the President of the Generality, on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on measures to solve the problem of illegal street sales]] [[317-00070/11]] The question is posed by Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.68.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I suppose it will coincide with me that one of the main problems we are experiencing this summer in the municipalities of the Costa Brava, the Costa Daurada and Barcelona city is the problem of illegal sales, it is the problem of the « top blanket. The question is very concrete: what actions does his government think hard to solve in order to solve this situation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.69.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.70.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Member, you are right: this is a difficult problem, it is a problem that we have, it is a problem that still with the measures that have been taken, it has not been possible to put up with, but this government's commitment in the field of its competitions is absolute. And in the area of the competitions that surround the gatherings know, all of them, that they can count decisively on the work of the Government of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.71.0	Thank you very much, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.72.0	Thank you, Mr. President. To be honest, I must say that the answer seems to us to be a little encouraging, it seems to us to be a little determined, especially for the merchants and the citizen who are patenting this problem. The people affected and these municipalities need, with all sincerity, to tell you, it's less moving the pilot from one administration to another, less words, less goodness, huh? More action, more solving problems and more concrete measures. This activity harms the small and medium-sized company with the issue of forgery, harms the self-employed and traders, it is a difficult problem in living together in public space, gives a feeling of impunity and moves a tourist image that seems to me to be quite regrettable for all the leaflets. And I have to say one thing, that if there are assemblies that do not want to solve this problem, as is the case with Barcelona, to which there is no clear decision, the Government of Catalonia does have the capacity to lead the reaction to this situation. Obviously the reaction does not have to be the one proposed by Esquerra Republicana, his company of travel, in the joint, that it was trying to create a_table, a table, where they sit at the same level to keep them and the merchants. This is not the solution. But there are measures, such as coordinating actions by Mossos d'Esquadra in which it refers to public security; National Police, immigration; urban guarding, public road control, and municipal law and order services to act decisively. And if you act decisively, the problem lasts five days, not five months or five weeks, the problem lasts five days. And, in this respect, at the Badalona Joint in 2012, according to the collaboration with the National Police, Mossos d'Esquadra and the Badalona Joint, the problem with three hundred to keep lasted five days. Therefore, Mr President, what you are asking for is concrete measures and what the Government of Catalonia is leading those actions where the assemblies and the mayors, as is the case with Barcelona, are refusing to do so. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.73.0	Thank you, Congressman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.74.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Albiol, of goodness, absolutely cap. And I would ask you, when you make statements of this roundness, to say how you support them, because precisely the statements of the representatives of the Government, publicly and privately, in meetings with the assemblies, that are very concerned about this issue, is of round-the-clock strength. Now, you're going to admit to me, I think, and you've been mayor, and you've been mayor of a municipality that has a certain reality and that still has it in the light of police reports, because, for what it looks like, the main stores of sub-administration of the material you keep are right in the municipality of which you were mayor... so you know that this can't be solved with populist strength. Do you think acting forcefully against a point of concentration of keeping that makes the problem go away? No, no, The experience – the experience – is that it is transferred. And, besides, the problem is, finally, the least of the problems, because it's a very big pyramid, it's the person who ends up coming. Because they know and we all know that there's a very big network and a very big traceability here behind, very big, and that's what we need to attack. And we need to attack him with measures that trust the police experts. It's easy to make magic and populate with this theme, very easy. We can all go out on the banner and say, "Out of keeping them. Because we agree that it is an absolutely illegitimate and illegal interference with the people who are raising the blind every day and paying taxes; it is clear that yes, I say it with all roundness. And that obviously we have to inform the presumed customers, as the Generalita is doing with this suit, the danger that it represents buying and the danger that it represents buying in this type of establishment, it is clear that we have to do it, but I do not see that it is such a simple problem that with a bit of police pressure or with a lot of police pressure this problem disappears, because that is not it. Here behind are people, some with very complicated situations, some who are victims of gangs, and who can only do one thing, which is what we are doing now, and as we saw yesterday, in the meeting with the syndicate, in which the assemblies very much appreciated the collaboration of the Government of the Generality, which is working together, coordinatedly, above all by listening to the mayors who have the problem in their territory, who are eager to resolve it, who know that they can count inexcusably on the efforts of the Government of the Generality. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.75.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on measures to eradicate corrupt practices and to ensure transparency in public procurement procedures]] [[317-00073/11]] Dotzena questions, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.76.0	Thank you, President. President, it's been a long time since we've had a cry from the citizenry, a demand for democratic regeneration and a demand for a net return in institutions and in the country. And you yourself attended this weekend at a convention that made the flag of renewal and where, at last, some prominent participants said that it was necessary to ask for forgiveness, I suppose that in the sense of expressing the need to break through with past practices. But it seems that the past is resisting to disappear, because today, the band to soak with the operation Thunder this, that we will see all the way up and how it ends, so, a few days ago we knew that a private company, which was generous donating Convergence through certain foundations, managed an important hospital center, Duran and Reynals, which was managed, which had been managed until then for an entity without a job and which had won the contest, precisely, making this characteristic worth it. And that this was the result of a discreet and effective management of some members of its government majority who today are adhering to this renewal. Our question goes with the gaze placed in the proprio moció of confidence: what measures and which guarantees will you give to this chamber to convince us that these practical ones, really, belong to the past? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.77.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.78.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. MP, you're always trying to establish, without saying, some cause-effect relationships that you can't prove. In any case, as you have read and I will repeat it today, in everything that the government has to give explanations, it gives them fecally and documentaryly. And in all the documentation that affects this case, the information that I have available at today's date and what I may have at tomorrow's or tomorrow's date, if information that requires information appears, all the information, inexcusably, is absolutely scrupulous and transparent; you can ask for it, you can see it. This will not change your perception, but if you want to judge this government about what its attitude is with respect to transparency, contract procedures, what it needs to do is to judge the work done by this government and how it acts before situations that require you to be informed or investigated. I say to him: the information that I have, and that I believe that you also have, indicates that in this contract there was not only no irregularity, but, of course, no illegality or interference from the people that you also implicitly refer to, that they did not have direct intervention in any of the decisions affecting above all the departments of Welfare and Health.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.79.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.80.0	And I also think I remember the Department of Justice. Precisely, probably or possibly, there is no illegality; the problem is the difference between legality and legitimacy. Because here we have the case, precisely, of a hospital that generated benefits, and that, in a management manner, these benefits, these gains were necessarily reinvested in the operation and development of this activity, and another model in which these gains are built into the enterprise that exploits it. So, here we have a problem and we have a discussion. Speaking of transparency, it may have been very unfortunate that the Board of Spokesmen has rejected our demand to bring to this House, in concrete terms, our bill on finance in particular for which it refers to foundations, that in this country they have a sad memory and that they are the result and that they function and operate with a law voted in Madrid for the party of which you are heresy and the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.81.0	Thank you, Congressman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.82.0	Yes; thank you very much. It seems to me that we absolutely agree that it is transparency, that it is accountability and that all the processes that affect the Administration, in this case, for which I am responsible, can support legality and legitimacy, which is the case and which will be the case with all decisions. The comprehensive information, dated, concretely, from the beginning of the process that brings us to 2003, all of them, without exception, count with all the favorable reports of all the organizations that have participated, all of them. And, therefore, if you're concerned about whether there's been any harm, something irregular, the information that we can account for is that it's definitely not. But, I'm telling you, it's very transparent, it's very coincidental with the need for the decisions that are being made to be upheld in the laws and the standards that we've been endowed with, but that, more importantly, if at some point there can be some kind of doubt, it's as simple as going to the source of the information, looking at it and then being honest and saying whether or not there's any irregularities that are made out of the insinuations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.83.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the renewal of the Council of Local Governments and institutional attention to the local world]] [[317-00071/11]] Tretzena asks the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.84.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Most honorable President of the Generalitat, the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy, in its article 85, creates the Council of Local Governments as an organ of representation of municipalities and vegueries in the institutions of the Generalitat. The year 2010 passed the law that regulates it. I would like to know, Mr President, what your opinion is about the fact that the Council of Local Governments is inactive for more than two years and that it has not been renewed since the last municipal elections, of which more than a year ago.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.85.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.86.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, obviously, everything that doesn't count with the local world doesn't seem like good news. I will not justify it why you wear two years without calling or why, in which we carry now, six months, from the legislature, we have not had the opportunity to put it in order. I will tell you, too, that this has not been an obstacle because this government, in a very emphatic way, has expressed its solidarity and its solidarity, let us say, disposition to the local world, as I believe many mayors and mayors of this country have already begun to notice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.87.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.88.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I asked you this question with a double objective. The first is obvious: to subrate my group's commitment to the local world. But the second is to put in place that sometimes from the government is to defuse institutional mechanisms for the benefit of other instruments, let's say, more informal, perhaps thought of as elements of extra-curricular policy rather than as strict work solids. And this reflection goes down because your government wants to promote a local world convention, of which parliamentary groups have been informed. This convention can be a good initiative in the measure that gives a real role to the municipalities and municipal authorities and serves to advance the local agenda. But in no case can the celebration of this convention replace the regular functioning of the institutions created for the State. That's why we're putting him in a position to immediately push for the renewal of the Local Government Council and also to strengthen his government's local agenda. We call, here, and perhaps it is not necessary, on his condition of high mayor, and it is from this condition that it will coincide with us, of course, on the need to speed up the recognition and payment of government debts with local authorities, to activate the mechanisms of local cooperation, to promote employment and economic activity at local level, to reactivate the Barley, to increase the correspondents' appropriations for the 2017 budget and to compromise brief terms for the approval of the Law of Local Governments and the Law of Local Finance of Catalonia, as approved by the Plenary of the Parliament from a motion submitted for the Socialist Group. From his first duex answer, President, which we can count on his commitment to the renewal of the Council of Local Governments and that we will continue to work folds to make the assemblies that have actually been, not only the last line of defense, but the first engine of economic reactivation and reduction of inequalities in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.89.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.90.0	Yes; thank you very much. See, there's a part of the local government council's functioning that doesn't belong to the government. And, therefore, the government can do little; if they have not agreed, for example, to determine who presides, we can do little. I insist that the Council of Local Governments should work, but it has not yet agreed on who is to preside over it. It has not completely limited this government's commitment to the local world, in various directions, some of which you pointed out. You are aware that the generality's debt to the local world has fallen considerably, in a very important way, among other things because I believe that it is mandatory that we do so. And we didn't eradicate it, and it's true that yesterday we signed an agreement with the deputies that will help us improve it a little bit more, but I assure you that the situation, today's picture of the debt of the Generality due with the local world in Catalonia has nothing to do with what we only had a year ago – nothing to see. And let's get back to it with very important joints of a lot of millions of euros. Therefore, the government has worked to demonstrate that the priority is the local world, because it is not the last line, it is the first line of defense – it is the first – as many citizens know and as we know what we have been mayors and what we think of the local world. It is clear that the Generality is on the side of the local world, it is clear that the local world is on the side of the Generality. The local world is an indispensable part of the construction of any modern country in its competitions, in its model of functioning and in its indispensable participation in the fight against inequalities and the struggle against the crisis, and, in fact, we have already signed the contracts..., the new contracts because the assemblies can continue to lend this essential job to the labor insertion of people with more difficulties and, therefore, what we can say that they have not been, I insist, in the last line of defense, but for us, it is the first line of defense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.91.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the Government's measures to fight corruption]] [[317-00068/11]] Fourteenth question to the President of the Generality on the political situation, formulated for the lady Inés Arrimadas, of the Parliamentary Group Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.92.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, last week we saw a lot of escorts in the field of investigating different cases of corruption, both in Catalonia and in other parts of Spain, and today we ourselves have been dampened with a new escort to the Junta de Lloret de Mar. With this loss of cases, it does not surprise us that corruption continues to feel the second concern of the citizens. In this sense, Mr President, we want to know what concrete measures your Government has put into effect in these months to fight corruption in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.93.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.94.0	Miri, a measure that you did not like people, that is to create a specific council, that moreover has the responsibility for transparency and external matters, and, therefore, more clearly, it is not possible to say the compromise of this government with an indispensable – indispensable – element to fight against corrupt practices, which is transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.95.0	Thank you very much, President. I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.96.0	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, Mr. President, with a counselor who refuses to publish his official travel schedule. What a transparent adviser, who refuses to do that in the Catalan Parliament! [[Some applause.]] I think many citizens are tired and getting more and more. You are tired of new cases of corruption, you are tired of cheap excuses without measures – because you cannot count the measures the government has done because you simply have nothing to explain – and of excuses, especially of excuses and victimistic speeches, which is what you are doing in recent years, but especially in recent months. You guys are just trying to deny everything, and today you've done it again. You deny that there has been corruption in your party, you deny that there is corruption in Catalonia, and you say that everything is an invention, that everything is an invention of the Government of Spain. And I ask you, Mr President, how can you fight corruption in Catalonia when you deny that there is corruption in Catalonia and say that everything is an invention? How can you fight corruption in your party when you deny that there is corruption in your party? Because we do not forget, we do not forget the cases of corruption of all Spain, but also those that happen in Catalonia, for example the case Treball, the case Mercuri, the case Palau, the three percent, the ITV, the case Pujol... Cases that not only affect your party, but especially have affected and affect the dome of your party. And we won't forget it for as long as you try to change the name or try to speak all day of independence. Because "Spain robs us no longer serves, because those who steal are corrupt politicians, from Catalonia or from the rest of Spain. And we announce that we have asked you to appear in this Parliament, Mr President, to explain what measures you are taking in your Government to combat corruption. And we do not want you to accept excuses, because what has happened with Minister Fernández Díaz is intolerable, and we have asked for your appearance here in Parliament, and on Tuesday, as soon as the Congress of Deputies is constituted, we will ask for it there. But a minister's immorality and greed will not cause us to forget the cases of corruption that have occurred in Catalonia and that have affected the top of the party that has ruled our land for more years. The question is: are you firmly committed, Mr President, to coming to Parliament to talk about what measures have been taken to combat corruption in Catalonia in these months and what will be done in the coming months? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.97.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.98.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madame Arrimadas, I celebrate your demand in the fight against corruption. I am convinced that it will appear in the conversations they have with the People's Party to form government or to help it form government, and that they will be absolutely intolerant to all those practices that you sound to corruption. [[Some applause.]] Because we'll find each other here – we'll find each other. No one said there was no corruption. I re-examined the hemerotecs, re-examined the statements. Who said there was no corruption? It is a problem that exists, sadly, in many societies, not only in Catalonia – in Spain, in France – and that the struggle of all democratic parties is to eradicate it, to combat it and, I insist, transparency is indispensable. Councillor Romeva, for sure, publishes his official public agenda always – always –; the official travel agenda is always published. Therefore, no one has denied that there is corruption, but you will also understand – and you will admit – that we have to go a little further, due to democratic and ethical demands, of which the insinuations are, I hope. Because you can't deny... – because this has not denounced independence, curiously – you can't deny that there is an operation, you have cynically said « Operation Catalunya, in which the public powers of the State, have admittedly made themselves available with public resources – that they are the ones who must go to fight against corruption, for sure – to try to impassifize for free those who have an independent ideology. And in this whole revolution takes advantage of everything – everything – takes advantage of what may be there..., what may be there – that the jutjats will decide it, certainly not the political parties or their ideologies, but the jutjats will decide it – with everything that has absolutely nothing to do with it. It's all used to generate a reality version, which is where a lot of you are installed. They are little concerned about getting to the bottom of the issue, because some things can easily get to it; what happens is that they have to have the honesty to recognize after what has been inflated as an illegal practice, then it turns out that it is not. And when it's not, we never hear it, you say it's not. And that also contributes to creating a climate of transparency and policy honorability, because it's not all about politics. It's not about corruption and it's not about the kind of corruption that we've got to empathize with people who have a different ideology. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.99.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the measures planned to combat the actions of the Spanish State against the Catalonian process towards independence]] [[317-00072/11]] Fifteen questions the President of the Generality on the latest political developments. The question is posed by Mr. Jordi Turull, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.100.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Many honorable president, these days too, at the time of dimmering we do not seem to know news and actions about how desperate the Spanish State is and whose bad arts is willing to use to face the determination of this Parliament and this Government to achieve independence from Catalonia. Doors enfora..., face enfora, face to mediums, many times in fan conyeta, many times is mofen, etcetera, for example, of the different actions that the Catalan Government does in matter of external action. Doors do that, but doors in the end cannot hide what is evidence, and it is that the external action that the Government of the Generality is doing is entirely effective. For example, these days we have known a report from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in which it is found, precisely, this effectiveness of the external action of the Generality. And, as always, the Spanish State applies that logic of "what is good for Catalonia – they literally say –" to the interests of the State. If you consider yourself a very active international actor and what is the intention of the Spanish State to combat it, you say it is completely ineffective. The way the Spanish State has to fight everything the Government of Catalonia does is with conventional weapons and non-conventional weapons, as we have seen. Because those days have also gone out into the light – and now the President of the Generality referred to it – a report – a report – named"Operation Catalunya" that what he is trying to do, what he explains, is all he is willing to do to discredit Catalan policies that are involved in the process. All folded, as annoying as we had a key in the Ple after the talks between the Minister of the Interior and the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office. Therefore, we do not stop timidizing news, reports, everything that the Spanish State is willing to do, I insist, with conventional and non-conventional political weapons, to combat this process. It is for all this, President, that we want to ask him what his Government intends to do, what his Government thinks of all these disgusting actions that the Spanish State is doing to combat the democratic process of Catalonia and its independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.101.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.102.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, I'll start at the end. What do we think we're doing? So, pull forward. To pull forward without, without hesitation and counting on, I hope, the majority of the Catalonian Parliament, which is compromised that this country is an independent state. Why? Why make a state independent? So, among other things, to escape from this kind of practice; to escape from a way of hearing the power in which power is barred in an impudent way, to use public resources that are from citizens in crisis to spy and to produce slanderous reports against people for the crime of not thinking the same as the government thinks; to leave a political system in which barred is also used by institutions that are instrumental in the construction of a democratic society such as the judiciary. I invite all Members of Parliament, if they have known professionals from the world of the judiciary, to ask them whether they are very happy, because they are buying their jobs; and professionals from the police and the civil guard, because they are buying their good name with a very short period of opportunity to use state structures – in this case, the Spanish State – to try to fight the political opponent. And that's not democracy. So what I want to say to him is that with more determination, if I may... I think the citizens already have tangible examples of why our proposal. And, in addition, because we will at least have the guarantee that a state to which the external action of the Government of the Spanish State contributes, which is a 20_per_cent– a 20_per_cent of the external action of the Spanish Government is financed by the Catalan citizens–, will not counter us nor will it serve to produce reports and counter-reports and to mobilise all kinds of resources– also public, this time– to discredit what is the true economic locomotive of the Spanish State. But, tanmateix, leave me. [[the President of the Generality]] to take advantage of the situation to remember or to overtook the ridiculousness in which a government that is going through the whole year least one day has passed that nobody listens to us, that we do not count for anything, that the Catalan case does not interest anyone, and that day of the year what it does is to make an internal report – yes – showing its reoccupation, because that works. And why beyond the photographs and whether President Obama or not, five minutes, two minutes, the great leaders of this country, beyond that there is the day-to-day work that the Councillor Romeva does brilliantly and that makes other advisors and advisors and that makes many people of the civil diplomacy of this country to try to explain to the world something that the world has interest in knowing and that the Spanish Government does not: what is happening in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.103.0	Thank you, President. [[Decree of 31 May 2016 on urgent measures in the field of public procurement]] [[203-00004/11]] After the control session we proceed to the second point of the agenda, which is: debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 3/2016, of May 31, urgent measures in the matter of public contract. [[Widow's remorse.]] In accordance with Article 155.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Raül Romeva, Counsellor of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, submits this decree to the law. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] If they are to leave, please, they will be silent and quick so that we can continue the session. [[Pause.]] Counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.104.0	Thank you, President. Thank you and good day to all of you. Public procurement accounts for between 15 and 20_percent of GDP in developed countries. Spain accounts for 18.5_percent of GDP. In Catalonia the year 2015 the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia, the sectors..., its public sector and Catalan universities awarded contracts worth 1,750_million euros, and invested a total of 4,200_million euros in contracts. It is obvious, therefore, the importance of public procurement in economic terms, and therefore one of the main objectives in public procurement is the efficiency and optimisation of these resources. In this sense, the introduction of tools that enhance transparency and competition between providers and measures to fight fraud and corruption, as well as the implementation of technologies and simplification measures, are only some of the instruments that enable these objectives to be met. At the same time, however, the economic impact of public procurement also turns it into a very effective instrument for hard to term public policies. In this sense, contracting can also be a tool of social transformation. The confluence of these different policies and objectives also diverse, and sometimes contradictory, makes public contracting a particularly complex area. So did the European right. The year 2014 saw the adoption of the names of the fourth generation European directives, Directive 2014/23, and Directive 2014/24, in the field of public procurement, which have led to a paradigm shift in the measure that, for the first time, the European law envisages public procurement as a strategy to promote sustainability, social responsibility, innovation and support for small and medium-sized enterprises. The application of these directives to the administrations of Catalonia is therefore necessary and essential, and more so when the Spanish State has not made it within the two-year deadline provided for the same directives. As of April 18, when the transposition period laid down for directives has passed, its provisions may be directly applicable, if they have an unconditional character and are clear and precise. This is what the Court of Justice of the European Union has established. Therefore, it is essential to clarify what is the contractual legal framework to apply both the public administrations of Catalonia and the citizens and businesses to whom they wish to contract. Public contracting is, as I said, a complex and risky area, in which it is essential to have clear and well-known game rules for all actors involved. There is therefore a need, but we also have an opportunity: to develop the new directives so that the public contract in Catalonia becomes a tool for social policies, sustainability and support for innovation and small and medium-sized enterprises. In this sense, the Decree Law 3/2016, of urgent measures in the matter of public contract, has a double objective. The first is to provide legal certainty, simplicity and transparency to the purchase of goods and services by the Catalan public administrations within the framework of the European directives, but at the same time also to enhance public procurement as a social transformation strategy. It is a law of urgent character and, for its own natural nature, limited to those aspects that require a quick and immediate response. The development of the European directives in relation to the contracting of names for people has been left behind at a second stage. But in this sense, I have told you, in fact, I can tell you, that we have already started working together with the local world to draft a preliminary draft law regulating a new contract model for certain social and health-related services, based on quality criteria and with the important participation of the third social sector. The third stage in the construction of this new contract model will come, then, from the hand of a Catalan contract law, which I announced in my first appearance as a consultant in this chamber, and which must also be an instrument to fight against fraud and corruption in this area. Today, therefore, we present the first step. A first step that means moving towards a much more transparent and, at times, much more social public contract model. I would like to highlight further some of the most prominent elements of this decree. In the first place, the scope of application. The decree is addressed to all Catalan administrations, both to the Administration of the Generality and to local entities and to the entire public sector. In second place, for what it does to the content. Let me highlight here four elements of change that this decree incorporates into the contract, in line with which I have already commented. The law decree promotes, first of all, transparency and the use of open procedures, for example, for contracts that state law provides for negotiated procedures without advertising by reason of quantity, the law decree provides for an open procedure, with advertising, through the web page. Therefore, advertising is promoted for all contracts, with the only exceptions of negotiated procedures without publicity due to urgency, technical reasons or minor contract. At the same time, simplification and efficient management measures are envisaged, so that a contract can be awarded within the maximum of one_month, to count from the beginning of the finalization of the deadline for the submission of tenders. The decree favours, in the second place, the access of the small and medium-sized enterprise to public contracts with the promotion of the division of contracts into smaller batches, so that they were not always in the hands of large enterprises. In the third place, the decree includes various simplification measures, derived from the directives, such as the replacement of documents confirming the contractor's ability and solvency for the single European document, or the reduction in the level of security to be employed in the electronic contract, with which it promotes the use of electronic media in the contract. And, fourthly, the decree encourages responsible contracting, introduces a system of value for offers that takes into account what is called the cycle of goods and services; it also includes environmental and social costs in the production of goods and services, and not just their price. Finally, in the third place, I would like to refer to the additional provisions of the Law Decree, and especially to the third and fourth, which regulate the new system of social concertation. The nine contracting directives place a great deal of emphasis on social services as you serve with respect to which member states enjoy a great deal of freedom in their regulation. For this reason, the considerations of the directives provide that both contractual and non-contractual forms can be established to guarantee the performance of the directive. Secondly, the Decree regulates the new non-contractual forms for the provision of social and occupational services of the Social Service of Public Service, both in centres and establishments of third parties as public office. In any case, it guarantees financing, access and public controls and access criteria, gives priority to the relation of the person in the area, to the personalized attention, to the principle of action, to continuity in performance and to quality. All of these are criteria that will obviously require a subsequent deployment. It should be stressed that the regulation of the social concert figure in the two modalities of the concert and of the delegated management is a long-standing demand of the entities of the third social sector that provide these services, very linked, as I said, to the forecasts of the new European directives and that we wanted to gather in this decree law. In short, with this decree, what is laid down as a manifesto is a first step towards a new model of public contract that promotes responsibility, sustainable, innovative and social contract, and, at the same time, facilitates the access of the small and medium-sized company to public contract. In other words, it's the first step towards a new contract model for a new country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.105.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Romeva. To fix his position, has the word "Mrs. Marina Bravo", of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.106.0	Thank you, President. Everything you just said here may be fine, but the important thing is also what you don't say. When I saw that there was a proposal on public procurement, I looked forward to it. As I imagine many here, it has been up to me to deal with every article of the legislation in force; first with that Law 48, then the 30, the 31, the consolidated text of the Public Sector Contracts Act, and in recent years also with European directives. That yes, when trying to combine with the legislation we have, it gives many headaches. Because it's true, right now there's a problem, we're not gonna deny it. European directives have to be transposed and now; we need a government in Spain as soon as possible; not a government in office, but one that is dedicated to doing its duties at once, to getting out of the way and to offering a new law of contract in conditions. Other countries are also lagging behind in transposition, of course, but that is no excuse, because here it creates many problems; we know that, and the more the government should know, the truth. We also know that it is not simple. Simplified methods are needed; but I see, simplified methods that at the same time improve current guarantees. It wasn't as easy or as simple as this one. We've been waking up for many years with news of corruption, many. The European Union has had to get into full swing, many awards have come to light on the basis of technical justifications, to emergencies that were not such, to any other scam that would allow the perpetuation of the capitalism of friends, very lucrative for a few, but with a tremendous cost to our society. Here in Catalonia, unfortunately, we know very well. And what is your answer to this? This decree of law, which, in truth, as much as you have said, I, with great affection that I have read it, do not find the asomo of fight against corruption that you say. It transposes some of the directives that are already binding and does nothing else, and it does not even do it well. It speaks, in the preamble, of the need to comply with European directives, but what follows is rather a carambola to try to escape from them. The title speaks of public procurement for later... – "surprise, as you well say – in the additional provisions, it focuses on how to fail to meet one of your requirements. Do you think that is what European directives were pursuing? Because I don't believe it. If you want to achieve Europe, what you cannot forget is the objectives that are being pursued there. It is not a question of looking for loopholes between their directives to see how we can deal with our own; no. Its objectives must be pursued in order to achieve Europe. The Europe 2020 strategy, referred to in the first paragraph, speaks of public procurement as a wonderful tool to promote innovation in companies, respect for the environment, encourage the recruitment of companies with a better business environment and socially responsible ones; and so, but it is impossible if, instead of ensuring equal opportunities in access and objectivity, we leave room for discretion. No law intended to transpose these directives will be in line with them, if one forgets precisely its main objective: guarantees of transparency. Guarantees that they will not again produce buchonous operations like that of Hestia, or like those we found this morning in the newspapers, again awakening us with news of corruption. And another thing, it is not worth putting the word "social" a thousand times to be more socially responsible. Of course they cannot avoid certain characteristics of the provision of care services to people when we are deciding who will manage them. Of course, environmental and social responsibility aspects must be integrated as criteria for prioritising awards – of course. Undoubtedly, social entities need the commitment they need the support of the Administration. But do you really think this is the best way to get it? We will not support this decree of law for several reasons. Firstly – and this is one of the fundamentals – because for the executive power to issue a rule of law without intervention or prior authorization from a parliament, it requires extraordinary and urgent enabling need. Need that, in this case, does not exist. A need that must justify the damage that occurs when coercing the possibility of debate and amendment of the law. An exceptionality that, as we say, in this case is not given, and, more, seeing the content. Legal certainty and predictability, in a matter with an economic and social significance such as public procurement, are essential, but this decree of law, far from clarifying, blurs the situation, not to say that it generates a risk situation due to invasion of competences and misinterpretation; for everything. Our second reason is because many of the articles, directly, do not believe that they are compliant. Maybe because it might have been..., maybe that might have been corrected in a bill processing but, in any case, we don't think they should be in place right now as they are. And third, because it gives wings to discretion in hiring or, rather, in not hiring because, in the end, it is not even known what this decree is talking about. Giving wings to discretion is something that needs to be corrected where there is now margin, so it is unacceptable that it has the slightest room in a new law. And if they want to support the social sector and defend the special interests of the beneficiaries of this field, do not do so, trying to give them their ears while putting the rope around their necks, while they propose mechanisms that will drown them, because they do not offer the necessary guarantees, while turning them into genuine subjects at the service of the arbitrariness of those who are at that time in charge. Do so by making use of their full capacity to facilitate their access to contracts with all guarantees and by verifying that such support is not summarized in a sentence in the specifications, but is fully effective. And, among the reasons, I had forgotten a_fourth, which is that knowing, as you know, perfectly the preliminary draft – which I do not decree – of the law of recruitment that is in process and that will soon enter..., should enter to debate if in Congress ; knowing, as you know, that probably the transposition by the Government of Spain will be made on bases different from those of this decree law, it is difficult to think that the hurry, the urgency of this decree, do not come by finding another cause of confrontation, even if they are willing to pay the price of a huge legal uncertainty in the meantime. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.107.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.108.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, deputies, deputies. So, as Councillor Romeva explained to us, we are now going to validate a law that basically transposes two European directives: one on concessions and the other on public procurement. It is true that public procurement and the public sector are very important to our country, also to the Spanish State, for their ability, therefore, to generate a very important economic dynamic, and also jobs, stable jobs, right? Therefore, it is important that we pay attention to everything that refers to the best in contracting, in contracting processes; for transparency, but not only for this, but also for how we consolidate or solidify our economy through companies that constantly work with the Administration. In this sense, it means that these directives should have been transposed by now, that they should have been made by the State. In this sense, I disagree with the Member who preceded me in the paragraph, because... that you did the State job, didn't you? It's just that in the end, too... the state did it, we probably wouldn't be here today, the Romeva Councilman shouldn't have approved or presented a decree to you today to validate. He has not done the work of the State, for the reasons he needs to know, and, therefore, in this sense the Generality has raised this decree to the law, which tries to solve some doubts and some insecurities that are not only planted to the Generality, but also to other administrations, as for example in the joints. Therefore... it is true, moreover, that the State has made recommendations for its own ministries; it could have made recommendations for other administrations, and it has not. Therefore, I also believe that we should make a certain criticism of the State, that it has not done its job and that more, when it recommends, it only recommends its own and does not think of other administrations in the Spanish State that are seeing, therefore, a situation of a certain legal insecurity for the non-transposition of these directives. The decree that appears today, for us, has positive elements, some perhaps not so much, and, therefore, I will go in and explain them a little and then make a petition. Obviously, the positive elements are that there is a key element, which is that we transfer the operational risk from the Administration to the enterprise in the area of concessions. This is an element that has worked a lot, which has been written a lot and talked a lot, because it is the companies that are at risk for concession operations. So far, this is not the case, and we have seen many cases in which, in the end, the State has had to pay concessionaries because, therefore, they have not had the benefits..., or they have lost in the development of a service of the Administration or of the work, of the construction of an infrastructure. Therefore, this seems to us to be a very important element, which is the reversal of risk in an operation, whether it is the exploitation of works or services. There is another very important element for us and I think that above all for the Catalan economy, which is how we divide into lots the contracts that can be made, the bidding of service contracts or works contracts. In Catalonia we have many micropimes – not even so many pimes, many micropimes – that often they cannot access contracts of the Administration because the quantity, the mass of which at those times is bidding is so great that they cannot, they do not have the capacity to access it; some are true that they collaborate with others through YOU, but it is not always so. Therefore, the fact that we can divide the work or the service into lots makes it easier for many of these small and medium-sized enterprises to agree to contract with the Administration and to form part, therefore, of the management of this work or service. It seems very important to us. It is said that there will always have to be a division into lots, if it is not explained in a concrete way with a report, and more so, then it will have to be established in the departures of conditions which maximum number of lots can bid a company or which maximum number of lots can be awarded to a company. It seems to us that this is a very important element, we believe that this is worth highlighting. There are other elements that are also specific to this decree, which is a quick award; it's about one month of the award. Many often businesses are complaining about the administration's lack of speed, and here we are forced to hire me in one. And, therefore, this is a positive element, more than it is true that it also emphasizes the digitalization of processes. Many often listen to businesses as they complain that we have to carry up and down papers and that there is really no single window; so, digitizing the process, the documentation, can also facilitate the speeding up of all this bidding process, which is often very easy. These, for us, are the most positive elements that this decree has. There's only a few others that maybe aren't so much for us, are there? We talk many times that the most advantageous offer always has to be governed by what it does to the price, in general... This is an element, for us, that has some negative points, because there are other elements that for us it would be worth also, right? : therefore, as this company invests in R & D & I, for example, as this company innovates, as it works all the themes of equality, for example... And, therefore, these are elements that should also be valued, without the cost being more than 50_per_cent, which often, therefore, ends up favoring many times the large businesses that have the most skills, right? , to be able to develop lower costs or to establish more advantageous offers. Then, it is true, the negotiated procedures disappear – it is not because the Generality decides it, but for the European directive – and this is something that probably also makes us not so agile, is it not? The negotiated procedures allow us to be agile with some contract of works and services, and this will, therefore, make it possible for the Administration to extend its operation a little more. And after that, even so, he was talking about the digitization of the documentation, but we also create an electronic register of generality bidders, well, that very often that's fine, because it generates and forces transparency, but others..., can also help us to encourage and process businesses. Therefore, I believe that this will certainly work because it is not so, because we are going, so, making life easier for businesses, which often suffer, not the Administration, but also all the processes that are not just the Generality, but other administrations, from the local to the state, also ask and force themselves. Beyond these direct transpositions, with positive elements and more neutral power, there is an exceptionality in the decree, which is when it comes to, in some way, favouring the award of contracts, works or services to third-sector companies, whenever they are without a desire for work; in equal conditions, this type of entity will be favoured. It seems to us that this is the right thing to do, because in the end it goes in the line of social responsibility that we as the Generality, as the administration, also have to have. But we also want to put an eye, don't we? It's worth noting that this can never go under or against the quality, the requirement we give to entities, because, like everything else, there are good and not so good companies, there are those who do better and others who don't do so well. Therefore, we keep demanding with entities, because they will also like us; if we are demanding with them, they will also try every time to do things better. Therefore, we agree with this exceptionality, with this preference, so to speak, to entities without a desire to work in the social sphere, but we also want to put attention to this aspect from my group, right? And, lastly, to say that, as there are things that, as we see, therefore, in which we may have a more critical element – we have already spoken to the group that supports the Government – we would like this decree to be validated today – which will certainly be validated today, but which, moreover, is already in force since it was approved by the Government – it can be approved by means of a bill, in order to include it, better than we can be sure that the Government and we also see and that they could promote greater transparency, better efficiency and effectiveness of the Administration, and therefore it will certainly benefit everyone. So, if we can finally validate the decree and we can approve this processing by means of a bill of law, so... the support of the Socialist Group is total and absolute in this decree; so, as I say, therefore, trying to improve with this processing those aspects that we see some element to highlight, to improve, or that we can certainly advance in this line of what we are talking about in the validation of this decree. Therefore, we would expect the majority group to say and, as I say, our vote will be in favour. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.109.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Next, the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.110.0	Well, thank you, President. Counsel, as has been said, the Government asks us to validate a decree on urgent public contract measures, with the aim of transposing two European directives, 2014/23, which refers to how they can award public contracts under concession rules, and 2014/24, which makes certain changes to public contract. All two directives are framed in a European objective that refers to trying to promote public procurement, so that it can be an instrument that drives innovation to our businesses; that boosts environmental respect, that sometimes becomes elusive, and that boosts the quality of services offered to citizens when contracts are awarded, especially in those that refer to people's services. It is in these services precisely where our country has a long, very long history of small business work, many times without a job, enterprises of the anonymous "third sector, that make a task of attention to people with a work of capil·larity in the territory that, as has been historically organized our Administration, this Administration could hardly achieve. As the proposed directives have not been transposed into the Spanish State, as has been said, and the term ended on April 18, there are some aspects of these directives that are directly applicable. This would mean renewing a number of contracts for many of these services which are now being offered by these third-sector companies, pending the corresponding grant, with the result that, in the absence of the regulation provided for in the directive, they must apply it, so as to pass these services to the hands of any merchant and precisely pervert the hope of what they claim to be regular, that it is quality, speciality and social responsibility in the performance of the services. It is in this sense that the Government is proposing, I understand, an emergency solution by transposing directives through a decree to avoid the legal insecurity that would represent this, let us say, impasse. The transposition of directives is a prerogative that allows us to have Article 189.3 of the Statute, when it says that if the European Union establishes legislation that replaces the basic rules of the State, the Generality may adopt development legislation based on European standards. So, in this case, nothing to say. Now, the power of the Government to make provisional legislative provisions under the form of a decree is conditioned, also in agreement with the Statute – paragraph 1 of Article 64 – on the existence of an extraordinary and urgent need. And this extraordinary and urgent need clause is not an empty clause of meaning, but it is a legal limit to the government's action, as already decreed by the law, which seeks to prevent the invasion of government faculties that are reserved for Parliament. And, therefore, this need must be sufficiently justified, explicitly and rationally, in the preamble. Let's look at the preamble. Looking at the government's justification, in this preamble, and contrasting it with the articulation, we only interpret that this urgency is resolved in the transitional arrangement according to which it is the one that enables the services that are currently being provided to third-sector entities, which are the ones that could be directly affected if we do not approve of it, to be extended. And if we look at it well, in fact, it's the only article that actually comes into effect that comes into effect when it's approved, that's to say it's already in force; the only one, because the rest of the regulation, especially the one that refers to the social concert – which we partially share – will only be effective when the corresponding regulation is approved, which, therefore, we still don't have. In the same way that incorporating this social concert to replace the SOC subsidy system – which we also share in part – we do not believe that it justifies an urgent measure, which could be perfectly dealt with in the framework of a legislative debate. Therefore, we share the urgency and the need to prevent it from getting hurt, with the entry into force of the directives and in absence of regulation, by a multitude of small businesses in our country that serve citizens with a huge social will. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the validation of this decree for this reason. Now, we understand that the decree purports to be more ambitious and develops some aspects of these directives which, in our view, do not justify urgency, while we share the measures in large part but which, if made and saved urgency, would probably deserve a broader reflection, a calmer debate and a more concrete definition, which would allow us to process this decree as a draft law that we are asking for now and here. We believe that there are interesting elements in this decree – some have already said it. For example, the elements that it introduces of bureaucratic simplification, that seem reasonable to us and we do not believe that it minimizes guarantees or security, as it often happens every time it is spoken, above all according to what you say, of administrative simplification. We understand that what is planted here can end up helping small and medium-sized businesses. How it can also be positive to set limits to economic basses to facilitate competition under quality criteria. It seems very interesting to us that I incorporate for the first time in the calculation of economic costs, at the time of deciding an award of any public contract, the calculation of the cost of the cycle of life, which includes environmental and energy costs and which will allow, for the first time, to take account of CO2 as a value element in the awards. It also seems to us that the introduction of the concept of social concert in the awards of concession contracts and on public contracts for the forecasting of social services includes requirements, clauses, preference measures or positive discrimination measures, social criteria, quality criteria, criteria of experience and accredited trajectory, and that allows continuity in the care of people, or that is given priority in these cases to entities without a job. Therefore, we believe that in these positive aspects, or that at least we seem to be positive, we should incorporate elements that allow the shielding of these quality elements, such as social clauses and labour clauses – that are not mentioned – to ensure that in the performance of these services, their quality and conditions will be in the midst of economic elements, and to avoid the entry of that which we would say to commercial economicism, because we understand all of them. In other words, it means ensuring that the quality of the service is based on knowledge, experience and social responsibility. That's why we think it's worth it if we do this text as a bill, we incorporate elements that we don't hear. Some, of concept, such as reaffirming that the services of care to people are public services, that they must not be conditioned to the economic price they have or to the freedom of the market, while reiterating that the social initiative entities are a defining element of the social service system and a key element in the promotion of these services. In other words, we have already begun to define the decree as, for example, the establishment of standards for the better quality of the service that very clearly encloses the working conditions that are provided. Or the establishment of control mechanisms and evaluation instruments. Or the need to take into account, at the time of awarding services, quality, continuity, accessibility, affordability, availability and completeness of services and the specific needs of different categories of users, including disadvantaged and vulnerable groups. Or to ensure the prevalence of entities in the third sector, with no desire for work and associated character in the provision of services for the care of persons. It is in this sense, too, that we want to recommend – allow me, before recommending it... [[pause]] – to study in depth a code that is already written and signed: the Code of good practices in the public contract of services for the care of people, which was signed on October 2014 for a whole series of social entities and the Generality of Catalonia, so as to implement in the form of legal articulation some of the agreements that are now a code of good practices and poor. For example, at the time of the award, the award criteria, in line with everything that went explaining, as well as the valuation of the economic offer, the fearsome reductions, etc. But also in the execution of the contract. The special conditions related to social aspects of the contract, such as employment stabilization, social inclusion, gender equality, conciliation or promotion with equality criteria. And finally, also, measures to follow up on the completion of contractual obligations. In summary, therefore, in order not to abhor them more, we believe that this decree must be validated in order to avoid legal insecurity and to facilitate the continuity of certain collections which you serve in the present, but we understand that it should be treated as a draft law to facilitate the armoring of some positive elements, but not urgent, which incorporates the decree, and to extend it with those measures that enable us to ensure that public procurement facilitates the quality, the expert and the social responsibility of the world of economicism, following, precisely, the hope of the directives that it wants to transpose. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.111.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Next, the words of Mrs. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.112.0	Well, thank you, President. Members and deputies, councillor..., to see, this decree that we vote today in this House with the character of urgency and provisionality that is close to it at the end is presented by the government making its saying of "downward, which is down, and this will not bring us anywhere. And this attitude at the end is not aseptic, because it has consequences and has consequences for the proper functioning of institutions and public administrations, and now we will expose why. The government presents this decree on public contract under an excuse, which is to transpose community directives in the field of public contract because, according to you, to the statement of reasons, this, at the end of the month of April, therefore, had already run out of time to include it in the general mark. And it's true – it's true. Indeed, the European Union, therefore, dictated a series of standards, a practically adaptation process of which was the whole public administrative contract, and did so on March 28, 2014. There were some terms, some directives that are called "fourth generation" in terms of public contract because they introduce, therefore, more competition, transparency – what you, Mr. Counselor, have just said to start – public policies to make the whole issue of public contract more effective and to make better use of public resources. That's a reality, and even here it's all good. Now, the directives come into force on the exact 20th day of their publication. The Government of Spain has time to transpose them. It is common practice that, from the same parliamentary and government dynamics, the harm that these directives have already entered into force because they are directly applicable and interpretable, sometimes the terms run out and even get over them. What's the situation in Spain? So, the situation in Spain is: set_months of running government. What do you mean? This means that, for the time being, we do not have an effective government – we have it in place – because the parties that lost the elections, those common fans and avoid and prevent the presidential favorite for the Spanish citizens, that the varen to vote with a certain difference respect for the seconds, and the party preferred for the Spaniards, cannot form a government. What are the consequences of this? Therefore, this implies a series of consequences that consist in the fact that a government in office cannot do laws – it cannot do laws – nor can it transpose directives. And that is precisely what Mr. Mariano Rajoy said yesterday: there are more than twenty directives pending transposition. What happens is that the Government of Catalonia always gets used to something that's very curious, and it's to legislate what doesn't belong to them, and the things that do belong to them, and it's also the responsibility and responsibility of the Government of the Generality, so to do what they say mutated through the forum, right? And this is the reality that we find ourselves with these decrees: that the skills that they must manage do not manage them and those that do not have them touched by a decree. You have filed these decrees just after you have passed this transposition term, one_me and call. They're in a hurry; they're obviously in a hurry. And you know that presenting him to a government in function that has hands bound, absolutely bound, cannot do anything at all. Look, do you have a golden opportunity, are you worried about conflict, security, transparency, efficiency in public procurement? Are they worried? So, do one thing, give support and abstain from the investiture of Mr. Mariano Rajoy as President of Spain [[remorse of the voice]] - No, no, no, They're... [[some applause]] , do you a favor: help – help – to generate a stable government and reduce conflict in the contract. [[Rialles.]] They don't fight so much – they don't fight so much. And they don't fight so much for one thing: you... you have already voted with the People's Party! Thanks to you for the job reform, so, [[the remorse of the voice persists]] went forward in a country that needed labour reform.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.113.0	Please, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.114.0	You don't, it's true. And it's true that you at that time are converging and uniting, and now, I don't know, we'll see what it's like, because you still don't know, right? But this is a reality. [[Widow's remorse.]] Look, today we're debating a law decree that's clearly unconstitutional. We could have gotten away with it, that's true. Especially those two groups that have enough deputies to bring him to the Guarantee Board have not done so: Citizens and the PSC. The PSC because there is absolutely no unconstitutionality and is focused on constant anti-PP speeches, because it is more thinking about the Congress of Deputies than it is about the Government of the Generality. And then Citizens, who didn't. It's not the first time that you've ever brought a law decree or a proposal for a law to the Guarantee Board, the Government of the Generality, with a negative report from the Guarantee Board, you put it forward. But, go, at least – at least – we would already have black on white that this is an unconstitutional project. And why is it? So, because it regulates basic public contract matter. It affects the preparatory acts, the award, alters the rights and rights of the parties, and this is the competence of the State: 149 of the Constitution. Like self-government, what we can do – or what you can do – is to develop all that is the common basic law of public contract law. And they can do so without contradicting the basic and complementary rule, introducing changes, but without contradicting the basic legislation. And besides, you, in this display of the motive of this decree of the law, have done to what we give the lawyers, of excuse not small, manifest accusation. They did; precisely, at the talk of motius. You say: "We have powers, we have legitimacy, we have a ruling from the Constitutional Court 141 of 93. They didn't get it, they didn't get it. It is precisely that what you say is that the Aragó, who tried to make a law proposal with this subject matter, public administrative contract, told them the following, with this sentence: "You must respect the uniform minimum common minimum that guarantees the equality of tenderers and their common treatment vis-à-vis administrations and the efficient use of public funds. That means you're unconstitutional. That means..., and we should be made clear by Mr. Romeva..., this decree what exactly is the law? Is it another summer structure? Is it a new state structure? Who is the object pursued by this law? Tell us, counselor, what exactly is this? Because you know perfectly well that last week the Constitutional Court was very clear and respectful of the creation of state structures: they do not fit. Look, you guys get this at the end of the day, it's the usual: it's the bad weather, and it costs us Catalan time and money. And who are the fevers? You'll work them – you'll work them. Those who now have to apply this law to public procurement or to the common terms of basic contractual regulation, who have doubts. They are another time putting the workings between the span and the wall; they are, you, generating legal insecurity. And if this goes up to the Constitutional, do you know what's going to happen to the contracts that are null and void? What will happen to the compensation clauses? How much is it going to cost the Catalans? Today's debate that, obviously, therefore, for which it seems in the positioning of parties will lead to an approval of this decree, will bring us another shot at another recourse of unconstitutionality, another by competitive invasion, a more episode of conflict, an excuse more for the victimism of the paranimf processionist. In the end, you do what you always do. I'm hard to say, huh? Because I am sure that this chamber, with the lawyers there, could certainly generate good legal marks, with quality, with durability, with legal certainty, with efficiency, with transparency. But no, you're still with this marathon, legislating on competitions that aren't your own in this room, and on purpose. And the results already know that, with the rush, they can't be good. Surely, if we were in another way, what we would do is create laws that help solve problems, and not create problems ourselves, which is what they do with it. I do not mean, I feel very much, with us to stifle and put at risk neither legal certainty nor something that is essential: the degree of autonomy we enjoy in this autonomous community.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.115.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Next, the words of Mr. Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.116.0	Thank you, President. I have to say, first of all, that we have debated a lot about who we should be in our position with regard to this decree, because it is obvious that this decree contains elements that are positive and somehow we think it is good that the government is moving in this direction. But we have a lot of doubts about the form, the timing and the final outcome of this decree. From the outset, let's say to ourselves, one reason is that a matter such as administrative contract is resolved by decree. That is to say, I think that it should almost practically be prohibited, at least in a country such as our administrative contract, administrative tendering mechanisms and, in some way, all that is the relationship between the private sector, which does business, and public administration, so it has brought us so many, many stories of corruption, corrupt them, and trafficking in influence. Before anyone said so, in the control session; now it is the second problem, the second concern, the second concern of the citizens, in Catalonia, the question of corruption, and it seems to me, therefore, that this decree does not respond sufficiently and maturely to all the problems posed by the question of administrative contract. In fact, this very Parliament, in the Commission of Inquiry into the Fiscal Frau, the famous Pujol Commission, issued conclusions on how to modify..., asking this plenary to modify and to have an attitude..., to take the legislative initiative in relation to the issue of administrative contracting. And in concrete terms he was talking about a reform of the Law on Public Contracts which limits the revision of contract prices, limits the fraction of contracts, which modifies the direct award system; well, finally, a whole list; in concretely, it is recommendation 231, approved for this very House of Parliament only one year ago. And when we compare the recommendations that this very Parliament was given only one year ago, I insist upon it, after a lengthy process of valorization with regard to the issue of tax fraud and corruption, and we see this decree that today the Government is presenting to us to validate, so, no, no; it does not go up on the Sabbath alone, to say it in a simple way, does it? But it is not just the CIFEF; if we look at what are the conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry into Health Management and the Relations between the Public Health Sector and the Entrepreneurs, also from the previous legislature, there was a whole set of conclusions in which this Parliament was also asked if even a whole set of reforms in the field of administrative contract that are not contained in the proposal presented to us by the Government today. And, therefore, we must say that, before a concern, not only of the citizenry, but also specifically of this parliamentary group, in which is the fight against corruption and administrative corruption, we think that this decree does not give a solution. Last week, for example, the question of the Innova case of Reus was posed on the table, right? The judge of Reus demanded a bail from 8_million euros to each of the fourteen directors investigated in that case– certainly, it was the governors of the tripartite that had ruled Reus : Esquerra, Initiative and PSC. I mean, in this sense... not for real, just to make it clear that it's the model; it's the model of public management, the model of contracting that we've had until today that generates an infinite number of cases of corruption and corruption. And this decree that the government is asking us does not solve it, because it is continuity and because above all I do not solve the main problems that the commissions of inquiry of this Parliament have put on the table. Moreover, we are specifically concerned that it is intended to solve such an important, delicate and economic issue through the decree. The other groups have already explained this. We think that urgency is not justified at all; but we do not only think so, that I already know that what the CUP thinks, therefore, has very little incidence, but that the General Intervention says so in the reports that you accompany and that you present in this Parliament to approve this decree. That is to say, beyond the very text of the decree, you submit reports, which are precepts for the law, and the report of the General Intervention makes it clear that the argument that you use to come to justify the urgency of regulating this issue through the figure of a decree is not justified. Because the only argument you say is that because there is a European directive that has entered into force and that has not been transposed into law through the State, it directly enables them to legislate by law. In this sense, I went a little different from where Mrs. Garcia went, obviously, didn't I? But for me, it's not so much a question... for us, it's not so much a question of competition, but it's mostly a question of which... which can only be regulated by law that is specifically urgent. And to say that because a European directive has not been transposed this generates an emergency situation would mean enabling it to legislate absolutely on everything practically at any time. And that is not so, because a European directive that is not transposed is of application, does not directly generate a situation of legal uncertainty. That says the intervention report that you're accompanying... and that I don't know if they haven't read it or, directly, they haven't given it enough. And, therefore, we would agree to process this text, so that we could discuss it, so that we could think about it, so that we could reflect on it, so that we could bring fellows, through, therefore, a bill of law that the government presented in this chamber. That is why we today, in the event that it turns out to be approved – that it seems to be so, with the votes, therefore, of the PSC and of Catalonia Yes, it is, together with the group that supports the Government – we would ask that it is passed as a bill in this chamber because we think that it is a very important issue because it is not law by decree but by Parliament which, in the fullness of its functions, can work and draft the text. Why, beyond formal questions, what are we particularly concerned about this decree? So, look, what we're worried about – and I don't think anyone will be surprised, it won't be new that I say it – is the model of social concert that is set up in relation to social services and the health sector, in which this decree can also be applied to you. That's to say, I think it's pretty well known that we're betting on a public model, public ownership and public actors. We are aware that the reality of the country shows that in certain areas of social services there are actors who are – certain actors in the third sector – private entities but who are without a job. But, also, we think that the decree that is now being adopted here on the table does not specifically guarantee that this is the model. That is to say, it says that there will be a priority in time to generate concerts in favor of entities without work, but it is not concrete as this priority will be nor, what is most important for us, forbids..., does not forbid companies with work to negotiate with social services and negotiate with the health of this country; let's say Innova, let's say Sehrs, let's say Hestia, let's say them as usual. We will not endorse that private companies earn money from social services and health services in this country. Therefore, while this is contained in the text of the decree, it is through an additional provision, it is justified by the neutral transposition of a directive, we know that the right is never neutral; the right is used to being at the side of the powerful, and we, precisely, have come here to fight it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.117.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. Next, the words of Mr. Germà Bel, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.118.0	Good morning. Many thanks for all the interventions – except for the counselor, because, if I gave thanks to the counselor, I would seem to be doing the pilot – both of 'yes as well as of 'no as of 'I don't know, I feel that... Certainly, Mrs. Hope, you understand me, but do you know what's going on? I can't speak on behalf of Democrats, neither of ME, nor of Convergence, nor of Esquerra, because my party life ended many years ago– in this sense, I am a zombie, but I do ask them..., man, I tell you, if they want a abstention, they will come out a little more expensive than Ciutadans, who have announced that, in the second vote, and for free, they already have it. I'm here, at least, to start with, a reference, right? [[Widow's remorse.]] But, look, the question of urgency has clearly been addressed by the support in this decree: the parties that have local government responsibilities have appreciated urgency; those that do not have it, have not appreciated it, in Catalonia, and those that have it in Catalonia and have not appreciated it are those who must be at the limbo of the righteous. Because the matter of urgency was well explained by the counselor, in what aspect is more and in what aspect is less. I'm not going in there. I, in fact, will not go into details of the decree that have already been commented upon, that exist and therefore the PP's spokesman has said that they want to bring it to the Constitutional..., as in the matter of more transparency in the contract, eliminate the negotiated processes without direct publicity, the consideration of the complete cycle of life in projects and works. Keep in mind that if this had been taken into account in Spain, the AVE Madrid-València line would have gone out with a negative environmental report. Fix the changes! But I'm not going in here, because there's been a lot of talk. I will refer, above all, to the whole fold. And look, and why everything folds, what's important, what's important, what's important, what's not more urgent, but it's more urgent, it has to do with the issue of transposition. The European directive has not been transposed because the government has not turned, not because it is functioning. Because on September 5, 2015, the central government amended the contract rules, but in the sense of opposing the European directive, in the sense of opposing, September 2015, here in pre-campaign and there not working. He's at BOE. But this has its place in the guide, and the guide must go parsimoniously. Look, the last few years we've seen a lot of things happen in public contracts. The European directive has a fundamental principle – fundamental – one of the two that is transposed, which is to transfer the operational risk to the concessionari, and, if not, it is considered that it has not been granted. The consequences are very great; the problem is important for Spain because it is the country with the most private concessions. But if they want us to find it, they can help us with some things. [[The orator shows a photograph.]] Do you recognize me? Perhaps some will recognize it better if they see a map of my village, the Houses of Alcanar, which is most affected by the terratromols. This was a fetal concession, Mr. Coscubiela – to whom..., here, the earring –, 2008 – 2008 –, settled in 2014, at a cost of more than 1,500_millions. The dealership was Escal, the ownership was ACS – the ownership of the dealership; ACS is a construction company. I don't know if they recognize this, that it's a map, but today it's not maps, it's photos; it's the radials of Madrid and some of the levantine. [[The orador shows various photographs.]] The problem is this: they're empty; we knew, I was a deputy when the concessions and processing took place. It was easy, technically, we warned. And he did, the government of the PP, the first government Aznar, the concessions of the radials, the first government Aznar, warned; he wanted eleven entrances to Madrid, as to Paris. And he told some of them, "We'll do them with tolls if you guarantee us the work. And it's in liquidation; they have a liquidation order, some of them, by October, but they won't see the liquidation, because the new government in operation, with Ciutadans' forbearance, will set up a public company, a bad bank of highways, and we will already hear about it in the tolls of the South and North AP-7. But this is another chapter, counselor, I've already commented on it. But, well, they know it doesn't just go to reel. [[The orator shows a photograph.]] This is a tunnel, which could be one of many tunnels, but it is the tunnel of Le Perthus – certainly, of radials, there were two, the R-3 and the R-5, owned basically by Abertis and ACS; sounds Abertis? ACS sona? [[Funnel veils]] Yes, yes, no, I look at them, it's that..., but what did they think we were? What did they think we were? , Abertis and ACS, Bankia and Sacyr -; Le Perthus, the tunnel, granted in 2003, also for the government of the PP, uncluttered, and in the process of liquidation, why, oysters! , another ACS, Eiffage dealership, French, said that it is more likely not to follow the operation, and they are in liquidation. They won't have it cleared, it'll be rescued. But, well, it's not all in Madrid, is it? [[The orator shows a photograph.]] This is the Manlleu-Ripoll, which is more ours; it was granted in 2006 and was rescued in 2015, at a cost of almost 300_million. In case anyone was thinking this was just going to Madrid. [[Pause.]] "Cuscu! You'll be there later. [[Rialles.]] This is what happens when 1965 is introduced into the Spanish legislation the patrimonial responsibility of the Administration, which guarantees third-party investors in the event of the failure of the concessionary enterprise. That was not considered at the first railway law of 1855, that establishes a sub-downstream and free appropriation for the State in the event of failure of the sub-shafts. That's what happens, like when franchises have narrow powers between business and political power – they laugh 'n, of the day – that made private companies develop toll freeways. And that's what happens when you want to build institutional power from the concessions. And look, the directive, and its transposition, allows to contract in Sacyr, in Comsa, in Florentino Pérez and, finally, in Darth Vader! [[The orator shows a photograph.]] Darth Vader! [[Remove from your eyes, laugh and clap.]] Because the problem is not who is contracted, judges of intent are close to religion, and in this chamber there are religious approaches to politics. [[Rialles.]] The problem is the legal marks, and the cents, and the rules! And when the operational risk is transferred to the dealer it is avoided... – and I explain to them how it goes for someone, after own elections, when they follow, they have to go to the private... Look, the builder is the dealership's mistress. The dealership, let's tell him..., I don't know..., the TP Ferro de Le Perthus tunnel commends ACS, which is the mistress, which it builds. Construction is done and paid. The dealership has reversed the 10_per_cent, the rest is third-party debt. The dealership has invested less than the benefit in building it. For this reason even if it fails without operating, the third ones recover and the builder, which is the lover of the dealership, guanya. This is the deal, which is why in Spain, so much so, when things went well they won and when they went badly, too. And this decree has the vocation to end this by transposing a directive that the Spanish Government has not transposed, not for lack of time, but because, let's say, it affects the business model. This is the phonetic assumption of this direction, and it's what they can look at in the future. That's why I gave them to the Socialist and Catalonian parliamentary groups Yes, it's possible that we didn't grab it like a concession that was to be processed as a bill, but we were proactive in the position that it's processed as a bill. I've told Mr. Marc Vidal and Mrs. Alicia Romero that I appreciate the flexibility. Because they asked the government to rush a little more neurons, to see if we can find even more precision in trying to close down what happens when a concessionary company fails. Because that's what Spanish legislation has left open in the change of September 2015. They said: "Well, if it's during construction, the State has left paying 70_per_cent, after a sub-up; but if it's during the concession, it doesn't happen, and like nothing happens is RPA. It's just that it's the business model. I'm done. One of the speeches I am most grateful to hear in this chamber is the one that "the independenceists want us to get out of Spain and get us out of Europe, because, I do not know if they have agreed to it, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, that the model of the State of Spain that builds a nation is the one that needs to prevent Europe from entering the peninsula. The same way that Spanish institutions need to prevent directives that want to impose more modern public policies, much more modern institutions, from entering the peninsula. For this reason, some people, without being independent black paws, we have come to the conclusion that the only way Europe enters Catalonia is out of the Spanish State. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.119.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] In accordance with Rule 155(3) of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. So let's go vote. The vote begins. It was approved by 86 votes to 46, with no abstentions. As long as there have been petitions that are passed as the bill... [[Funnel veils]] – Yes, it seems to me that there have been three petitions because it is passed as the bill – in any case, so we will now vote. The votes you say will be in favour of being passed on as the bill and the votes you deny against. Okay? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. It has been approved that it will be dealt with as draft law by 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a national industrial pact]] [[250-00455/11]] Next, let us move on to the third item on the agenda, which is: debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the creation of a national pact for industry. [[Widow's remorse.]] In accordance with Rule 165.1 of the Rules of Procedure, the parliamentary groups which are the authors of the proposal may intervene to present the motion for a resolution. As this motion for a resolution has been tabled jointly by all parliamentary groups, we shall proceed to intervene for a maximum of two minutes. To start the turn of interventions, has the word Mr Joan García, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.120.0	Yes, thank you, President. Members, Members, wanted to start, first, by giving welcome and thanking all the members of the Pact « More industry that accompany us today, and give them in some way or thank them two things: first, their perseverance at the time of keeping alive this proposal that we will, in some way, vote today in the form of a motion for a resolution. And, secondly, to have allowed us also to push from this group, as we have defended in other legislatures, and this, therefore, very intensively, precisely to provide and support the proposal that we are bringing here today. « Catalunya will be industrial or not. This is a phrase that we have used many times. It seems, therefore, that this dubious Shakespeare can be solved with a ‘being'. So I think we can start working on this line. And in this way we are somehow receding other formulas than unfortunately, so we've seen these last few times. We now have a phrase that has also become quite famous, such as that of 'best industrial policy', which is not what it is. This sentence, therefore, has led us to convergent governments – and they will allow me to say "convergents of the moment" until they give us another kind – so they have brought this last year to an end. Catalonia has moved from having an industrial GDP of about 29_percent of the total, in 1994, to an unchanged current 20_percent, still stretched from the targets marked for the RIS3CAT strategy, which is from 25_percent to 2020. In fact, in 2015, the report passed to us by the consultancy comments and tells us, therefore, that, speaking of the industry in Catalonia, the industry decreased its weight within the Catalan economy and the industrial VAB, while growing, was placed sufficiently below the Spanish economy. Just as with the VAB it passed with industrial production, with the index of industrial production, with a growth inferior to the rest of Spain. I think that the data is irrefutable and we should react: on the 11th of April of 2016 all the groups of this Parliament sign, at the proposal of the Pact« More industry, a declaration named« Industry cannot wait. Totally fine. In fact, we would have given them another name: "The industry could not wait. As has been shown to other countries around us, the best strategy of fighting the crisis is to have a strong industry, and therefore to prioritise industrial policies. But this strategy didn't follow, and we've paid for it hard these years. The Pact« More industry in 2012 was a chance, an opportunity that came from the same civil society and through the agents involved, many present here today: universities, unions, employers, professionals, experts. We lost the opportunity to do what we'll do today, but a long time ago; a decision that would have given us tools to improve our position in the face of a still weak out of the crisis. But in Catalonia some have devoted themselves to not prioritizing what the citizens really care about, leaving aside the policies that give a quick answer to the problems and enhancing the initiatives that lead us to institutional shock. And we saw it in the presentation of the previous law, and so we said. And in this way we carry a lot of time without managing with a certain talent, and some of you, sovereignists, call it "the while, and we call "the future; a future that passes through the present and is summed up in one word: compromise. In Ciutadans we were the promoters of this proposal for a resolution from the iniciator. Today we are here to show our unequivocal commitment to industry, and we do so in the way we know best: with facts, without rhetoric. We could not present ourselves to the debate on a proposal for a resolution of the impulses of industrial policy without a compromise in the form of parliamentary work. Thus, Ciutadans has proposed and approved since last month of fever in Parliament different resolutions on industrial policy. They are a total of two approved resolutions that deal with issues such as: alternative finance, clusters, industrial policies, start-ups, innovation, dual professional training, research or universities, and which is in addition to approved motions on measures to combat the displacement of entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs and self-employed people. We come to this House with our dues and the sense that it is the government that has to work now. He's at the hands of the government, Counselor, as long as he's here today, that this work serves something. It is in the hands of the Government to implement the proposals that are approved in this Parliament, which very often does not happen. Today's proposal is an opportunity to start doing it. This is a proposal that determines a series of tools, such as a concrete programmatic agreement and a proposal to follow up on its degree of compliment. It is a proposal that draws the future, accepting the present reality. Mirin, the employment situation of many Catalans is the result of a product model which, in part, bases its competitiveness on precariousness. The low quality of the work that is generated, reinforces the idea of the duality of the labor market, something that we have denounced for many months. The job that is generated is temporary, seasonal, low-skilled and low-wage. Therefore, we have to build a new product model and it will be a product model where the industry has to be the baller. But, yes, it must be a new industry, an industry that bases competitiveness on factors related to which we in Ciutadans call the system of knowledge. A system of cross-sectional knowledge, which is not part of a national pact, to all of Spain, for education, which can introduce values into the educational system, such as entrepreneurship or the value of research. That these values are present from primary to university. A knowledge system that increases the resources of basic and applied research, strengthens dual vocational training and makes technological transfer essential. A knowledge system applied to a new industry, which has as its objective the training of its workers and the design or innovation within which we call the value chain of any product. We want an industry within a product model that will, in knowledge, have the best argument to make ourselves competitive, to internationalize our economy more and to fight against precariousness. And we want to build synergies with the rest of Spain and the European Union. We think that a good part of the construction of the business ecosystem is that we have to build this new model on that premise, essentially on that premise. And no examples, or do you think it will be easy to have a Mediterranean corridor outside the European Union? Disconnect us so we can connect? So, well, from Ciutadans, we're defending Catalonia's paper as the engine of this model change produced in all of Spain; as we've done many other times. So, and in summary, what we are bringing to this Parliament today is a motion for a resolution that sets aside a watch that we hope will leave behind a long-term product model of industrial policy. You've all made a commitment to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.121.0	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Next, the words of Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.122.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, again, counselors, deputies and deputies. Look, right now, or a few months ago, too often, we hear that the Spanish economy has already emerged from the crisis, that we are emerging from the recession, that GDP is growing, and it is true, and it is true that Catalan GDP, over the Spanish middle, tells us a lot about President Puigdemont, but that is not because, in itself, it is good news, because it would also be hot to ask us how this growth is feeling. Do you feel a fragile growth? A weak growth? , a stable growth, solid? That's a question we'd have to answer. We don't think we can talk about recovery, we can't talk about getting out of the crisis until we have a drastic reduction in the atm, until the atm falls below 10 percent and, therefore, we almost have a technical atm, don't we? We believe that at these times the jobs we have are of low quality, with a few basses, with a lot of temporality, a lot of precariousness and, therefore, in these circumstances we do not believe that we can say in a very strong way that we are emerging from the crisis and that economic acceleration..., and recession, therefore, is ending. What we also believe is that if we can avoid something it is the growth that we have experienced in the past few years, in which sectors such as construction or tourism services of very low quality have generated a lot of jobs, but they did not improve our productivity or competitiveness, especially for the outside world. We were living moments, yes, economically important, but it is true that generating jobs places of very little added value and very little training. They were places of work that occupied people almost without training, under a lot of heights and this generated a cylinder that, as you well know, brought us where we are today. And it's in this environment, and it's in this context that we believe that the industry must have an important role to play, that we don't believe it today, a long time ago, a lot of time that we demand the role of the industry, among other things, because it generates stable, high-value jobs, a lot of technological and knowledge content, a lot of knowledge injection, because the industry is the one that makes or dedicates more investment to research and development, because it has a great export capacity and because it's used to, for these reasons that it gave, under dignity, under heights and under stable jobs. The industry, therefore, for us, is clearly a factor in getting out of this recession in which we find ourselves and, above all, in generating stable and high-quality jobs. Today, industry represents at the conjunction of the Catalan economy, 18_per_cent. If we look at the perimeter and those places of indirect work, we would be around 50 per cent, but we also know that the places of work and occupation and industrial GDP have decreased in the last few years and we have seen here, in Parliament, and we see, unfortunately still, a lot of business committees that present us with the EROs, so that their businesses have decided to pose and see how businesses, unfortunately, are transferred to other countries, right? Therefore, we are losing industrial GDP and we are losing occupation. Months ago – years ago, we could say – that we need to take a step forward, that we need to take a long look, that we need to be proactive and take a step forward for what it does to the reindustrialisation of our economy. We need to modernise it, we need to strengthen R & D & I, above all, to inject it in a very clear way into the production sector. We need to redirect the production sector so that this sector can be more competitive, that we can also review the education system, especially dual vocational training, to lay it down more on the labour market, to lay it down more on the production sector, that it has requests that we often don't know..., we don't know how to give answer; that we also bet strongly on infrastructures that help, also, our better productivity and competitiveness. And in this critical demand, we might say, that we are from my parliamentary group, but I believe that we also share a lot of people, and that is what we are going to approve today – what we are going to approve today – that it is this motion for a resolution that has a very clear origin, that starts in 2012, when a follow-up, therefore, of universities, social and economic agents and professional colleges is found and says: "How can we not start making decisions for what makes the future of industry and the future of the economy to our country, we will not get out of it. This was 2012; it was a job with more than a hundred experts in different fields and gave place to the "More Industry" pact, with 138 concrete proposals, which worked on many different aspects. Basically, what this pact explains and concrete, once you read it, what it does basically is to make proposals that facilitate and lay the conditions so that industry can improve and grow in our country and grow in a sustainable and stable way, as we wish. Because it is not true that the best industrial policy is not what it is, and if we look at the United States, that many times, therefore, we enjoy admiring ourselves in that country, we see how Silicon Valley looks like the United States, many companies because they do technological innovation in the field of defence, for example; but we have seen how, in 2009, for example, the United States lends a loan to a very low type of interest, of 465_million euros to Tesla, because it develops technology in the field of the automotive sector, to make electric boats, which, as you know, is the great revolution that brings... to a sector that seemed to be almost unbreakable, right? So, it's not true that industrial policy cannot be done, and governments have the capacity to do so. They have the capacity to facilitate the conditions and to put these conditions, and therefore, to put what we believe is that we need to do this. And what the pact says "More industry is this, than in different areas such as training, infrastructure..., we talked about the Mediterranean Corridor, but there are many other infrastructures that help to improve the productivity and competitiveness of our companies so that they can export and because they can obviously be much more robust. It's about energy, one of the most important costs that companies have in our country is energy costs and, today, the councillor has announced an energy plan to our country, but probably a little late up, we would have needed it before, but well, welcome still. But this is a key element for the future of our industry: financing. Before I made this comment, which posed this example of this loan, of this funding that the United States donated to Tesla to develop, therefore, a very important technological product, right? Well, this is a key element for us, export; how we improve the size of businesses because they can invest in innovation, because they can export, because they can obviously, therefore, take a larger size and get to be more productive and more competitive. This is the pact that presented the year 2013 to this group of social agents, economics, universities and professional colleges. We, from the first day on, picked it up. In fact, we made an inquiry, we made an inquiry to Councilman Felipe Puig, in which, among other things, we told him to take the compromise to deal with these 138 proposals; to schedule them, to prioritize them, but to start working and to take advantage of what civil society had done. So many times we say that when you do civil society or do civil society you don't have to do it, so if there was already a very important job... let's take it as ours, because, besides, it was done from the consensus and from the vision very different from many different groups and sectors, so let's accept it and get out. There was no such thing, even in that place to which he gave the place, which was the consequence of that inquiry, we incorporated it and it was not approved. Therefore, we have tried, we have wanted from the Socialist Group, as well as at least, to make efforts because that pact is realized with the action of government. It was not so, and we have regretted it, because it seems to us that today's approval is late and it is true that today, surely, it is not worth making many reviews, but it is also worth remembering, so remember that this was approved in 2013 and that we probably lost three years, and that is a pity, because in times like we should not lose a minute. And we have some attention: today we will approve this for unanimity, surely, and we are satisfied that this is the case, but we will be very fond, because the assumption proposal that was made in 2016, in industrial policy, reduced the assumption in relation to 2015 and because in relation to 2010, we reduced the assumption in industrial policy by 80_per_cent. And so in May, news came out that the government would, within 15 days, convene political groups and social and economic entities to start working on this pact. And today, it's July 13th, we don't have any news; and it's not critical, Counselor Baiget, because I know you're willing to do this, but let's get in there, please, let's get in there. We approve of this today and try to summon us as before, because it is important that this pact is carried out, it is concrete with government action, which means: actions, calendars, assumptions. We cannot do this today, neither tomorrow nor tomorrow; we are aware of all this, but it is important that we can schedule these short-term, medium-term and long-term actions, that we can make assumptions and that we can somehow agree on what we need to do in industrial policy. I believe that there is a very good job to be done, that it should be an efussive aggravation of all this group of entities, so that they did this job and formed the Pact. We hope that the Government will put its finger on the needle, the country needs it, and we believe that it also deserves all those people who have devoted so much effort to defining an industrial policy that is necessary for a country that has long been waiting for just that, a courageous and determined industrial policy to have a more sustainable and stable economy in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.123.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Next, the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.124.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, advisor, friends and friends of the Pact « The more industry you are here, you continue to welcome and welcome. December 2012, is presented to the paranimf of the University of Barcelona the manifesto« Més industrie: the Catalan response to the crisis. The import of this document was not so much in the content, but in the arrangement; that is, in the sum will. It was not driven by the people who are here today: trade unions, business organizations, universities and professional colleges in Catalonia. This manifesto, with the same protagonists, is the beginning of a process developed during the first half of 2013, with a hundred experts in eight commissions of work, and which allows the drafting of a new document: the Pact« Más Industria, Pact for Industry in Catalonia. Both the manifesto and the pact are based on shared hypothesis that the best way to get out of the crisis and reactivate the economy was – was and is – to boost industry, and on the finding of the loss of industrialist weights of the Catalan economy in the early years of the crisis. Two defining elements of the work to produce this document which incorporates 139 very concrete measures have, on the one hand, been the search for consensus between its members – that we do not forget that they start from quite different points of view, but around the same objective–, and another that would be the work and the proposals of wide recourse. But, of course, despite counting on the expected agreement, despite counting on the expert work of the people involved, with whom neither the manifesto nor the pact has counted, is with the agreement of the Government. By word, yes – by word, yes – but by fets, Mr. Counselor, may. The government has always said that its industrial programme incorporates an 80_percent of the measures called for in the pact and the components of the pact have always denied it – they must be vicious. But, in fact, it can't be easily illustrated, it just needs to read the measures and see what the government is doing. And there is no colour: the government's industrial programme is a good powerpoint, certainly, which describes how the industry should be in the Europe 2020 marc and the European RIS3– yes, sir– and in this powerpoint there are coincidences– quite a few– in the measures of the Pact‘More industry; now, where you don't find any coincidence is between the government's programme and the government's action, as in the previous legislature– let's say so. Probably not the pact in the best moment of an autistic government, that of the previous legislature, locked in its imaginary propi mon; located at the moment But transformist – it is: the devout retail to recover the economy to the penitent retail because it obliges Europe – ; inserted at the best moment of the juggling Puig – that it is: to applaud the labor reform voted for his party to regret that it has no tools to prevent multinationals from vagranting themselves leaving a fight of matures after having bought the country's expert – and located precisely in the presuppositional magic Mas-Colell, which preferred to bet for the speculative economy imposed on the game to create Barcelona World or to make assumptions on the weight of public investment in industrial development is the same as the circuit's. Bad times for a good birth; no pact « More industry at the time that the country is governed by a government that does not believe in the bad industry that does not stop saying that it is its model; it is the time when the mission of the government, according to Felipe Puig, is only to accompany the enterprises; enterprises that do not have enough to survive as to need even company; an impossible concept if what we want are policies of long running. It is an offended government for the crisis and for the past, unable to solve the difficult situation, but also unable to do anything outside of itself and bring measures beyond the immediate. This attitude contrasts with a definition that makes the very initial manifesto of the pact « More industry, which tells us: « A strong industry requires prioritizing certain objectives, instruments and measures in many fields of economic policy. The industrial priority is not, therefore, the result of a short-term industrialism; we are talking, therefore, of a demand for political will in capitals on the part of organised citizens and of an absence of this long-term policy, that is, a policy in capitals on the part of the Government of our country. And I am saying this because, as has been said here, we have approved a multitude of various motions and various motions for resolutions, presented throughout the diversity of the groups of this chamber, in the past legislature, supporting the Pact, but there has not been a single move in the line of seeking the consensus that you allow for the incorporation of the Pact into the industrial policy of the country. And this long-term policy has an impact on a number of aspects necessary for industrial development and which go beyond the concrete policies of a concrete department. The initial document of the pact reminds us, and it may be good to contrast what we ask and what we have done; it says: "Acting with a long and structural view implies acting on the totality of the factors of production, which is precisely the territorial factors of competitiveness. We have not done the dues, or we have not done enough; there is still a major territorial imbalance in the country's industrialisation. Says the document: "To act in an intense and urgent way on the capital factor and the financing, without this factor it is not possible to build an industrial base. We've been agitated before capital, the credit hasn't arrived, the bank has continued to campaign and the speculative economy is still unchecked. We haven't done our dues, either. « It is necessary to act systematically and with a long-term perspective on the work factor, here the formation as a phonenal variable is inserted. But if we have let the working conditions of our workers and workers be laminated as it had never been done, but if we have been tied up with hands and feet while multinationals reduce labour costs as it had never been done. He also said the document: "It is also possible to act with a competitive orientation on the large energy sector. We have been tied up with hands and feet, with the most expensive energy in Europe, and voting in Madrid – yes, in Madrid – the shameful reform of the electricity sector of the People's Party. And the document says: "I can finally act on a broad set of factors that have acquired a key role: infrastructure for industry, research, development and innovation and, finally, on the set of territorial factors of competitiveness. How many times are we talking about the review and the improvement of our industrial hours, their excesses, mobility, bandwidth, sustainable energy production? Let us remain honest; if we are honest, we will have to recognise that for the causes that remain – external, but also close – this country has for many years not had an industrial policy that can be described as effective. So, well, today we have the opportunity to reverse this situation. The Pact, which finally reversed the same components as the original, insistent, mesells, presented on 11 April last a new manifesto with the sad suggestion of the title of "The industry cannot wait. And we're asking everyone, all the political groups in this chamber, and so we're hoping that this time the government will also feel questioned with the elaboration of a national pact for industry that you represent, precisely, the long-running. A pact that allows us to see how we link the measures of this pact with the different governmental instruments that already exist: the strategic industrial areas, the National Pact for Research and Innovation, the National Pact for Energy Transition and the Energy Efficiency and Action Plan for Industry. A national pact that follows a programmatic agreement to be able to define short and medium term measures in all areas of government for the recovery of the productive economy in Catalonia. A national pact that allows the two elements that gave you to inspire the beginning of the pact's "More industry: consensus – this time too the whole political consensus – and the long run; both. A pact that must or should lead us to build a rather broad framework for a real transformation of structures and infrastructures into a new industry-based product model; a process that must be ambitious with the resources needed for industrial development with policies that must cover all the futures, from industrial policies to taxation, infrastructure, public and private financing or investment in research, innovation and training. A pact that allows us to put into value a broad consensus of all political forces and that in its process of drafting the vertebral axis following the participation of all the agents involved, allow this Parliament to exercise in the future the constant follow-up of industrial policies. We believe, therefore, that it is necessary to reach this pact because we believe that we need to conclude country agreements, because governments that governments can drink from these consensuses and Catalonia dexi to hold the erotic policies that we carry years painted in our country's industry. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.125.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidal. Next, the words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.126.0	Thank you very much, President. In addition, of course, to the greeting of the members of the Pact. The de-industrialization process in Spain..., Catalonia and the conjunct of Spain, held in its moment economic reasons and later political and ideological reasons, even. After the oil crisis of '73, it began to speak that the Spanish industry was not effective enough, that it had to change its model. In the year 81, when commitments were made to enter the European Economic Community after the year 86, these commitments were made for industrial conversion, which was implemented in that first half of the decade of the 1980s and which took place as more media exponents High Horns of Vizcaya, High Horns of the Mediterranean. I suppose everyone remembers it perfectly. But then came the ideological and political reasons. There's an ideology of industry contempt. And this ideology has been very powerful for decades. And, finally, I want to congratulate the combination of political forces that today we are talking about and that abandons the ideology of industry's contempt, which has names and surnames. In this Parliament there are few occasions when we approve things for unanimity. When this happens some political forces more than others get used to not being too comfortable and say: "No, the People's Party, well, has approved this, but they're hypocrites because in the background they do something else, and they're outraged. I won't do that, but I would love to talk and reflect on a little bit about what the ideology of industry's disdain means, and not to generate any type of conflict, but all the contrary, not to repeat and turn the debate into a menu of scenes of common places and try to enrich it in some way. And above all, because it is not repeated again, and because no one has the tempt to return to the discourse of industry contempt. Industry's disdain had its moment in the anti-industrial currents of the exaltation of anti-globalization thinking. That's the year..., said years ago – time goes by very quickly – he also had the most media expression in José Bové – you must remember, of him – that in an exquisite intellectual he had as the motto« Against hamburger, roquefort; against industry, craftsmanship; it was the one who gave this good man. A more elaborate mike was the thought of the White Petrich, who had a thrill that triumphed a lot and that precisely was based on a few dialogues between Subcomandante Marcos, the sentimental idol of the good companies of the CUP, and José Bové himself. A document... a deliating moguda, with all due respect, full of tribal prejudices against the industry. They weren't ideas, though, new ones. At the decade of the sixties a part of Frankfurt School – Marcuse –, after Jacques Ellul, who was not of this school, was of another..., they devoted insistently, stakhanovista, to discrediting the industry. They did their job well; they were able to get a lot of damage to the industry to settle down in the imagination of a lot of people. Basically four. The first is that the industry pollutes exponentially, unlimitedly and unstoppablely. This was repeated many times. There was a phonational thing going right at this thought point, which is technological innovation. Technological innovation has been able to allow industries today to be much more productive than they were 20 years ago and to contaminate much less. This is what is capable of achieving technological innovation. There's a window on the side of this thought, and it's the one that says it's not just the polluter industry, but it's also incompatible with any other sector, especially tourism. Jo, who come from the Costa Daurada..., obviously, there have been difficulties, because the world is difficult, but it has proved perfectly that the industry is compatible with other models of economic development if it is doing well. Therefore, this damage was radically false. The next injury to the industry was that the industry exploits the workers. It has to be said in honor of the truth that a good part of the trade unionist left immediately heard that it could not fall into this parany, and then they began to tell the truth, and it turns out that not only was the worker not exploited, but that, in the march of the industry, there are better under, work more stable and, attention! , say the data, more certain, that it was another damage against the industry. The last harm, the most delusional of all, was that which spoke, I quote textually, of the industrial technicalist alienation, the slave man of the machine that caused the industry. He had another motto: only changing the way of thinking, only changing the way of living..., as if a worker who is in the industry is fiéqués entre de Matrix, right? You're alienated in a slave trade, against the machine. In other words, all these damages triumphed. And many people had a very negative perception of the industry. And this triumph of this anti-industrial ideology came to be, as I said a while ago, practically transversal. Therefore, thank you very much to some representatives of the left for having joined this consensus, because the post-materialist, anti-globalization and anti-capitalist, anti-industrial ideology has done industry a lot of harm – a lot of harm to industry. And today would be a good time to start correcting it. Industry is not that, it is not that, and it is that harmful; industry today is innovation, research, development; industry today is added value, it has proven itself all the time; industry today is professional training; industry today is free trade, too. All those people who systematically oppose any free trade agreement should remember that the industrial authority does not work – as you know in this country – it does not work and will never work. And only in an environment of free trade can the industry be able to exploit all its potential. So, what do we want from the People's Party? Why are we gathering this initiative? An open, innovative, sustainable industry. It is what the Pact calls for, 'Better industry, and as it could not be otherwise, we will be collecting it from the People's Party Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.127.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Next, the words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.128.0	Well, thank you, Madam President. To add to the greeting of welcome to the drivers of the pact" More industry and, as a group position, therefore, to affirm that we are in favour of pushing this national pact, because this industry remains, must be the basis, therefore, of more productive sovereignty and must generate quality jobs. Now, we are still aware of the limit of public policies in a capitalist framework that tends to deregulate, through these free trade agreements that Mr.Alejandro Fernández was, let us say, advertising from the Faristol, to deregulate the economy every time. We saw last week with the documentary – certainly the co-production of Catalan public television – Freightened, the real price of maritime transport. Today, 90_percent of what we consume is produced outside our territory and up with ships, this is the other part of the documentary, and that's why, at a certain point, capitalism decided to start displacements as a way to maximize benefits, and so it could undo the awkward large industrial class concentrations, highly unionized and that, precisely for this reason, during the 20th century it had won the conquests of social rights and put limits on that wealth that was done at the cost of the impoverishment. I'm hard to break the stereotypes of the Popular Party spokesman, but this is the analysis that we have of the 20th century and of the industrial working class, an analysis based on materialism and not on prejudices. I don't know if the People's Party also exercises the same rigor when it analyzes certain facts such as climate change. Sometimes I think it is based more on the opinion of someone else than on this type of analysis that we are trying to exercise, on the dynamics of the vast abyss of the capitalist system and, therefore, of the industry. We have the challenge, therefore, of reversing these deindustrializing processes, which have direct consequences in the impoverishment of the working class, and that this is a reality which, in turn, remains flawed, because it did not just express itself politically, or yes. In an article from July 7th, the Washington Post demonstrated the clear relationship between the most deindustrialized areas in Britain and support for Brexit. Despite the fact that the extreme right was the one who blew the most, therefore, using immigration as the source of these causes of discomfort and impoverishment, the fact is that there is no evidence between the regions that have the most immigration in the United Kingdom and those that give more support to Brexit and, on the other hand, there is this relationship between areas impoverished by deindustrialisation, such as north-eastern counties, and this counter-support, let's say, this option for the European Union. Therefore, these impoverished areas, which had begun de-industrialisation with Thatcher's neoliberalism, are the ones that have seen their own industry replaced – mainly, therefore, textile or electronics – by Chinese imports. And the article put, therefore, this example of the regions of the north-east, in contrast to London, that it is the region that responds to more migratory flows and that, in change, has won the option of support to continue between the European Union. We think that they will do well, that the clothes and blasms of the voters opposed to the European Union as ignorant – and that, certainly, there are many present these opinions in the main Catalan and Spanish newspapers–, well they will, let us say, hear that there has been a vote of rebuff to the impoverishment resulting from the deindustrialisation. In the national pact, we will insist on the fact that we have always had debates on industry, either in the Commission of Enterprise or in the plenary of Parliament. In the first place, that, from our point of view, without public banking it is very difficult to have public policies of industrialization. And in this sense, tomorrow, we ask the government to respect it. In a_second place, the reindustrialization processes have to put the work force in the center. We said it when, from the point of view that the Ciutadans Group invited us to open the doors to industry 4.0 and smart factories, we said: "No, if we do not guarantee that this does not involve the destruction of jobs. This cost us, therefore, a new label of these who are accustomed to leaning to the UPC, in that case we were "played". But a few days later the OECD published the document The Risk of Automatization of Work in OECD Countries, which reflected on the future of the labour market as a consequence of the development of automation and artificial intelligence – therefore, of this industry 4.0, right? –, and the conclusions of this document were in line with what we had exposed a few days earlier: the Spanish State is the third state of the OECD with the risk of losing jobs in these processes of new automated industry, a 12_per_cent, according to this prediction, right? Why, actually, as we also explained that day, is talking about this automated industry without taking into account the places of work, isn't it? And in the report, for example, of the Bosch multinational – which I see is the one that it provides, now..., just now I have subscribed to it, it is the one that provides microphones in this building–, I admit, right? , that only in exceptional cases are people required for intervention, right? , when he made his move as to what these smart factors meant. Therefore, according to our appreciation of what we do and what we defend in the pact: this centrality of the labor force at the time of setting up the reindustrializing processes: that I was accompanied by the participation of the workers in the direction of these industries. And that's a guarantee that the industry is running around the territory, because if whoever moves it, who has it involved, it's the same people who have no other interests than those linked to their immediate surroundings, the displacements are much harder, aren't they? And so, when we talk, sometimes, about looking for reversals of those that may be fleeting, this is a risk to the detriment of if we foster a participative industry for the workers and, therefore, stalled around us. And finally, with regard also to the centrality, therefore, of the workers of the industry, affirm what we started: the quality of the places of work. Let's say, if Europe has gone de-industrializing, there is a clear exception, that it is Germany, but it has done it at the expense of the precariousness of the working class, generating what could be called a second job market, so, much more precarious, mini-jobs, these autonomies, etcetera, right? And that's not a price you have to pay for own industry. Certainly, it seemed to us from the Socialist Group's intervention that a technical objective of 10_per_cent would be desirable. Home, no; the weather must not be desirable at the end of the circumstances, much more than the technical name. Who suffers from a state of affairs, let's just say, what he wants is to get out of it in the best possible way. Finally, therefore, if we are talking about banking, we are also talking about the labour force, to say the least, bearing in mind that these processes need to be developed taking into account the values of territorial and ecological balance. Today, therefore, we also asked the Government about the working conditions in the meat sector in Osona, but about this sector, which is really very important because it is a 4_percent of GDP, we are also concerned about the huge ecological footprint of the pig feed to our country, which is obvious. These, therefore, are some ideas that we will defend in this national pact for the industry that today, through this resolution of Parliament, is moving forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.129.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Next, the words of Mr. Jordi Munell, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.130.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good morning. From Junts for the Yes, as it could not be in any other way, we share the conviction that today was expressed here in the chamber. The conviction that industry is, and we want it to continue to feel, and that it is much more, an engine of redundancy of the Catalan economy. In fact, the different groups certainly do not share, so we do not share past visions nor do we share if more has been done or less has been done, surely we do not share some analyses of what has been said, but what is important is that we look forward today. I would also like to say hello to the members of the Pact. Today we want to look forward and, therefore, put into value all those points that we do share, that some have already reasoned, eh? The value of the occupation to the industry, the relationship of the industry, which entails not only its direct added value, but also indirect in many high sectors, from logistics, transport to maintenance and many others, packaging, embolcall, marketing, etc. In fact, President Puigdemont announced a few weeks ago this government decision to push this national pact for industry. In fact, President Puigdemont was talking to us about a key word to hear the power and role of industry in our economy, he was talking about resilience. Industry is certainly the sector that best supports situations, so you don't want a crisis, huh? In fact, in times of crisis, we used a word that we didn't put all the eggs in the same bread because if the bread is broken, they all beat, huh? It's important to diversify. But we also agree, it has also been said, that not all sectors of the economy contribute with the same quality, for what it does to the occupation, neither to the level of wages nor its capacity to redoubt, eh? But it is important to diversify sectors, and with this diversification I repeat that we share that one of the most important paners to keep the eggs is that of the industry, huh? In fact, from this impulse of the National Pact for Industry, in fact the meeting has already been convened, which before it was ugly that it had not been convened, the meeting is already convened for the next few days with all the social agents, economics involved. The proposal of the year 2013 was also made to the pact « More industry, than the previous president of 2014 but, therefore, also announced that he took good part in those 138 points that were proposed. But he also set a few limits; a few limits of what they assumed and assumed, so some of the skills needed to develop the cent_per_cent or, for example, the financing model. In fact, in those moments he was thinking and responding in a completely autonomous yet _marc, different from what we are today planting from Junts for the Yes and from the government of our country to which we support, eh? And so, surely here we don't agree when it's worth it or when it's balanced if it's done more, it's done less, as it was before, huh? We, and with the Councillor, passing on, therefore, the pact « More industry of 2013, eh? – I did it on April 11th at the university's paranymph – we give it a 70, 75_per_cent, 80 compliments. Obviously this has different visions. In any case, what is undeniable is that the Government's industrial strategy or the identification of key industrial sectors for the Catalan economy or even all the programmes, strategies, RIS3 or the programmes of Industrial Europe 2020, many of these programmes incorporate many of these points proposed by the Greater Industry Pact. But, as I said before, with some limitations; limitations for the model we have and want to transcend, that we want to go further there, huh? In fact, Councillor Baiget last week or fifteen days ago here in the same Parliament gave us a respite from the 2015 industrial report with significant enough data: the increase in industrial employment of a 4.3_per_cent; the reduction in the industrial sector of 15.2_per_cent, eh? , the improvement from year 99; or the increase in industrial activity, with a 2,7_per_cent, for the euro area as well; or the index of industrial production, with an increase of 2,6_per_cent; the indicator of industrial climate, five points respect the previous year; the industrial investment in Catalonia, which grows a 12,12_per_cent, which more than 33_per_cent of the investment is destined for the expansion of capacity of the industries; the increase of foreign investment, etc. I won't repeat them all. In any case, it is not a matter of assigning merit either. Surely the merit, of course, is of the same entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs and industrialists, of course; but all this is not if it was not later accompanied by a certain industrial climax and, therefore, by a certain..., of being well, eh? , with industrial policies. So, this visit... we don't often share visions that are very destructive in this sense, huh? And these data, as I said, are optimistic, but they are not a cophosm. On the contrary, we are not happy, no, we would like to go much further. And that's why today we also subscribe and push forward, as we expect all together, so, looking forward to the future, this will that industry increases its specific weight in the economy, that industry is still an engine of economic redundancy and, if we can, overcome this goal that is more than 25_percent of the economy's GDP. And that, as I used to say, with a new scener. From Junts to Yes we see a post-autonomous scener, and therefore, with the ambition that some of these limitations – infrastructure, energy, finance, taxation – have a new scener, which, obviously, I know we do not share with other groups, but we all share that would be good for industry and the business sector, huh? Therefore, with this pact that we have today, we will approve, for our part, what we do is to reiterate our commitment, the commitment of Juntes for the Yes, in this new scene that we experience and see, because the overall strategy of the Government..., from different departments – there is work for everyone–, so they do direct or indirect actions that help this increase in specific fish in the industrial sector. And, like I said, there's work to be done, huh? : from the Department of Economy with tax and tax issues, but also the Department of Territories for which it does infrastructure. There's been talk about the runner. We haven't talked about it, but we can talk about access to the port. The topic of airports, the management of AENA and the Barcelona airport were discussed earlier with the interpellations. Or, for example, also, very important the national II, for the traffic of goods up and down. Or, therefore, there has also been talk of continuing to develop the FP Law, dual education, continuing education or university education, huh? , with interesting programs such as the development of industrial doctorates, the incorporation of doctors into the Catalan industry. Also with research policies, technology transfer, policies, therefore, start-ups, start-ups, but also the incorporation of researchers into research centres. So did the energy model, what happened, huh? : we have an energy, surely the least competitive of many European countries. The Baiget advisor also announced this law of energy transition, which is necessary and essential for the industrial sector. But also different measures of cooperation and enterprise promotion: the cluster program; last week it also presented the center that integrates all clusters in Catalonia in a place because they can cooperate, or the internationalization programs – therefore, to the Foreign Office – or the promotion of exports, start of exports, etc. We're talking about rebalancing, too. For example, extend the high-speed optical fiber network to all polygons in Catalonia. Or, for example, other inherent themes as well: residue policies, industrial security policies, protection policies for industrial property and patents. Or some very important: the promotion of entrepreneurship and self-employment, huh? , as the formula to create new industries in the future, and because of the import of the network that around the industrial world is created with all these small autonomies, subcontractors, suppliers and futures, so some of them, industrial ones that integrate into the world of industry. For all this, from Juntes pour el Si, we will support these pacts and push forward the strategy, as I said before, with the policies of the government, which we will try to reproduce later on in the corresponding assumptions. Thank you. Good morning.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.131.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Munell. We shall then proceed to the vote on the National Pact for Industry. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Let's go vote, then. The vote begins. The National Pact for Industry was approved by 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Thank you all very much. The session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon. [[Greetings.]] [[The session is suspected to be two-quarters of two in the middle and eight minutes and is resumed at three in the afternoon. She chairs the President of Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who is assisted by the Secretary-General in office and the late Immaculate Folchi and Bonafonte.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.132.0	It's part of the session. [[Motion for a resolution on the works of art of the monastery of Sixena]] [[250-00513/11]] Very nice late. The fourth point of the order of the day is: debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the works of art of the monastery of Sixena. In accordance with Rule 165.1 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposed resolution may be submitted by the group(s) of the members of the Parliament who are the authors of the proposal. As this proposal has been submitted jointly by five parliamentary groups, we shall proceed first on the turn of these groups, for a maximum of two minutes. The first word is Mr Ordeig of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.133.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Councillor, councillor Vila, deputies, deputies, to argue the position and the motives that led the Socialist Group, in this Parliament, to sign this joint motion for a resolution on the conflict that affects the works of art of Sixena, the Museum of Lleida and the museum..., the MNAC, and that affects us. We think it's important to make some preconceived considerations to bring a little light to the way we've come here, and remember that there are three open fronts or three different arguments that affect the art of the strip. The first, the one hundred and thirty fish of the Diocesan Museum of Lleida, of private conflict between the bisbats, for a band – follows its course. Second, the mural paintings of the monastery of Sixena, exposed to the MNAC and carrying seventy-five years to Catalonia, for another band. And thirdly, that's the issue we're dealing with today and the most urgent issue of solving or focusing, that it's the sixty-seven fishes of the Sixena Convent, the motivator of the current conflict, and that's where we're going to widen. To note that we would have liked to be able to present a proposal from all the Parliament, from all the political forces; all have signed it, less one. We thought we had a very broad, correct, rigorous, even neutral wording, which is exactly what we needed to try to find political criteria, common sense criteria, which we felt to find a glimmer that worked for us. These works of art, arranged in Catalonia in 1970, the ninety-seven fishes, the MNAC and the Museum of Lleida, were to be come for the monks of Sixyna at the length of the eighty-eight and the north, in three stages: not during wars, not during chaos, at some times, when there was no control over anything, but 83 the Generalitat bought forty-four fishes, no one; 92, which is already doing olympies and these things, the Generalitat bought twelve fishes and no one else, and 94 the MNAC bought forty-one fishes. The Generalitat, in the different purchases, approximately 50_million of the old pessetas are spent, apart from everything else, of the restoration expenses that can be done afterward. This purchase is made precisely following the recommendations of international museum organizations, as also other museums in the State followed the same procedure in the purchase of works of art and as then, afterward, I will refer to it. So, it wasn't done in an irregular way, and that's what we were defending. It was not done in a way that could cancel this purchase, and it is what we defend. And we believe that with today's motion for a resolution the government will be replaced, the councillor Vila will be replaced, doing everything possible, between the..., legally speaking, and also obviously, between the dialogue and the consensus, so as to try that the unit of works is preserved and that the legality of this purchase remains recognized. Not all feelings were adverse, some gave us reason, but other feelings, then, followed those that did not give it to us. Judicial judgments..., the Constitutional Court had said, in a first instance, in a first case, that the purchase was made correctly. With a _second sentence, we are told in 2015–contents– that no, the purchase is cancelled and the delivery is ordered to the Aragó, to Sixena, of the whole package of the three purchases. Based on what? So, there was no ministry permit to make this sale. He does not deny the property of the monks, but he does deny that he could sell himself. A more recent bureaucratic theme and a theme that awakens other surprises; is it: will we challenge all the works of Sixena that were sold following the same procedure? The Prado has works of Sixena, the Museum of Toledo has works of Sixena, and there have been works of art below. Therefore, we would have to ask ourselves whether all these sales could be challenged and must be returned to the monastery. From the Socialist Group we believe that the purchase of the Generality was correct and we believe that it should go until the last consequences judicially speaking and exhaust all the judicial procedures necessary to ensure that it is left there on the touch, that it is its rightful owner. Do you doubt that he's generating all of us folded in? As I said, will other purchases be cancelled that have taken place in other museums in the State, Catalonia, the State or the world, in the same circumstances? Do the precautionary measures have to be completed before the sentence remains firm and I do not admit any more resources? The congregation of monks who say he is their rightful owner and who sold the fish no longer exists. To whom shall we return these works of art? What's the condition? What is the amount of compensation to be paid to the Government of the Generality? Why did he pay some money and he admits that he paid some money, and he paid some money to restore, to get old... so who's going to compensate the generality? How will conservation, cataloguing and restoration of works be guaranteed, if necessary? Is this gonna make it up to me? And, above all, who will be responsible for these fish, to whom will we give them, if the legitimate owner at these times is no longer there? For these reasons, we believe that urging the Government is a must for parliamentary groups, urging the Government to go out for the interests of Catalans, to go out for the interests of our heritage, to go out for the interests of our heritage, to go out for it because it is complex..., to give cover to the cultural heritage chain, to give compliment to the Museums Law and the Heritage Law, precisely, because they are the laws that we have been endowed with to protect this heritage, and we believe that at these times, if we do not exhaust other lives of judicial resources, we believe that they will not be donated. So, unit of labor, correct preservation... when you do this, we'll be next to the government. That you didn't get a dialog or an agreement... can also be critical. Therefore, we get dialogue, negotiation and agreement, but while this does not happen, obviously, the judicial process is also an option in which we are and which we very much need to find a way out or an appeal before it is favorable..., before the month is over. Finally, I regret that the motion for a resolution cannot count, as we have already said, on the support of all parliamentary groups, as we have said. It's a reasonable proposal, it's serious and it's thoughtful, and it's not a nationalist or war stride between one territory and another. I think he's a model, huh? Today we have to decide, we have to, too, to debate whether things, in the eighties and the north, were done correctly. We think we do, and we have to defend it, and the government is also asked to do so. Therefore, it is not an identity issue, but it is a matter of legality, of the purchase that was made to the eighty-first and to the north, of the good work of the Generality, of the defense, as we have said, of the Catechism of Cultural Heritage, and also, obviously, of the common sense. So much we've found an agreement before the hour, we haven't found it. Of course, it is necessary to explore and defend all possible lines. Therefore, I also support Lleida's Platform of Cultural Entities, which is strongly defending, precisely, that the benefits, that this heritage does not come from our museums; therefore, we support it, we will be present in its demands. The same ministry has said that it has some doubts about what can happen to other museums that are in similar situations; therefore, it is not easy the previous one that can create with this feeling: what will happen to the Prado, what will happen to Toledo, what will happen to sub-hastes that have recently been done, in similar situations? Therefore, to thank the predisposition, obviously, of Mr Forné, of Juntes per el Si, of the rest of the parliamentary groups, to find a point of agreement very broad, generic, but also concise and clear, that we want the works to stay here, that we want the government to do everything possible to try to maintain our heritage, to try to maintain legality and to say that things were done very well. Thank you, President, Councillor, Members of Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.134.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Ordeig. The words of Ms Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.135.0	Thank you, President. From Catalonia Yes, it is possible to consider that a clear and firm attitude is necessary to defend the legitimacy of the Museum of Lleida and the National Museum of Art of Catalonia in order to maintain, to hold and maintain the proceeds of the monastery of Sixena, as they form part of the unity of the respective collections. The Government of Catalonia must exercise its legal, administrative and legislative competence in the matter of cultural heritage, which is provided for in the same Statute, in the Law of Museums and in the Law of Catalan Cultural Heritage, which give guarantees and coverage sufficient to protect that heritage and which oblige, the last two laws, the Government of Catalonia to take care of those benefits which are of its own property and to age for its protection and conservation. Delivering the works and transferring them to the monastery of Sixena, therefore, would imply making omitted cases of what the Catalan laws say, at the time that would put at risk a patrimony that is found inscribed in the Catàleg of the cultural patrimony català. And then the move would pose a major risk to these works, because they would have to go to a place where the preservation of these works is not guaranteed. Now I'll explain to you a little bit of the history of the monastery of Sixena, because I, the truth, at the beginning I didn't know very well... I hadn't heard about it, but I didn't know very well what was going on and so I entered a little into the history of the monastery. This monastery, which belongs to the order of Saint Joan of Jerusalem, is intimately linked to the Catalan-Aragonese monarchy. It was founded in 1188 for Queen Sança d'Aragó, who was the wife of Alfons el Cast. The community of this monastery came from the royals and the nobility, both Catalan and Aragonese; therefore, it is not strange if I say that they once had a great heritage, they had a lot of resources. From the dissolution – I quickly went with history – of the County of Urgell, began the slope of the monastery, and inevitably also began the diaspora of the patrimony, of the artistic patrimony. The Civil War was the most traumatic event in the 20th century. The artistic objects that were able to save were moved to different places in Lleida. In 1948, some of the artistic objects from the Diocesan Museum of Lleida returned to the monastery. The year 1970, however, when the hospital community, the last hospital community that there was, left the monastery of Sixena and moved definitively first to Barcelona and then to Valldoreix, part of the clearings, part of what was left of this artistic heritage, he moved again to the Museum Diocesà, today Museu de Lleida Diocesà and Comarcal, where currently Roman. Later, the Santjoanista community, already established in Barcelona, sold most of the assets from Sixena to the Government of Catalonia and to the National Museum of Catalonia, as explained by the Member who preceded me. We now have a judgment, Judgment 48/2015, which incomprehensiblely obliges us to deliver the works and place them in a private building that is guarded by third parties who have nothing to do with this dispute and to do so without waiting for definitive judicial resolutions. The most important argument of Osca's court is the declaration of the monastery as a national monument in 1923, which according to it affects the building and the artistic benefits. He also said that this 1923 declaration made the monks stop selling, since the benefits were protected. But this is false, because 1925 is documented sales of works authorized by the Ministry of Grace and Justice, which was the one competent in those matters. And these sales are perfectly documented in a thesis by historian Carmen Berlabé, just like the ministry's authority. If the ministry authorized you to sell them, it follows that the artistic goods were not part of the declaration of a national monument of 1923. And all this pulls down the argument of the judge of Osca, who in the judgment considers the buildings integrated in a single unit. For all these reasons, we shall vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.136.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lienas. Next, the words of Mrs. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.137.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, well, this is a proposal for a resolution of support, for the defense of works of art that carry many years living with us. As Lleidatana considers her city, her land, her traditions and her culture, I think it is necessary to defend the forty-four works that form part of four decades ago of my city's history and, moreover, the fifty-three that are currently in the MNAC. So we showed it to the Lleida Assembly, also to the parliament, and, as it could not be in any other way, we would defend each of the fishes of the Diocesan Museum and Lleida District, as well as those of the MNAC, even though, to a servant, logically, they are not, therefore, so close. That said, we must recognize that we find ourselves before the end of the dispute between the executors of Catalonia and Aragó. A question that theoretically had to resolve 'ecclesial life has ended in the hands of governments that have been unable to find a way out of it: lack of dialogue and consensus on both sides, a media response that has not helped and above all – political opportunism, a fact that has turned these disputes into controversy; all the pleas involved a source of conflicts between territories. I said, back to the subject of political opportunism. It is unfortunate, I find it regrettable that the Republican Left of Catalonia gave the sort of exit to the past general elections before the museum a few days after all the political groups, or almost all of them, met with the platform of entities defending the works. Possibly, that image did more harm than good, but surely they looked for the photo to take the pit before the ancient Democratic Convergence of Catalonia after the discrepancies with Councilman Vila. As if it's not quite overturned, the current government has just made it more complicated. It's a strong embolism. As representing thousands of Leidatans and dealing with works that largely belong to the Diocesan Museum of Lleida, through this motion for a resolution I try to give sight to those Leidatans and to the fifteen entities of the Lleidatan civil society that demand a clear and firm position of the Government in favor of the unity of the collections of the museums. We give our recollection to civil society when they act, trust that in good faith, in the defense of a heritage that is of all, and we believe that the works must remain where they are because of the importance of the museum union. Remember that the works are part of an indivisible collection that is protected by the Law of Heritage, so that its division would suppose a great loss for the conjunction. That said, in this defense of the works, and once all the legal lives have been exhausted, two separate disputes by subject matter, and another, the murals, and the final determination should take into account that they are part of the same collection, here we will find ourselves before a dilemma: the compliment or not of the judicial orders. And before this scener – before this scener – as it could not be in any other way, and also as it has been said since the same counseling, it is not a question of sorting, but of completing the judicial sentences, whether or not there is agreement. Even though for some this proposal ends up breaking the rules of the game because disobedience is in its DNA, this is a statement of intent that runs the risk that I've been truncated for firm judicial judgments that we like or don't like. In this dispute it is not a matter of going against anyone, but in favour of a heritage that we hold in Catalonia four decades ago, a heritage that has been preserved in the best possible conditions, some conditions of conservation and security that we pose in question if I kept the monastery of Santa Maria de Sixena today. Finally, to finish my intervention, I would ask you to stop using this question as one more tool to divide the Catalans from the rest of the Spanish, in this case the Aragonese. Those of us who do not want to break with the rest of Spain also have the right to defend some works and paintings that we have in Catalonia now and hope for many more days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.138.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. Next, has the word Mireia Boya, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.139.0	Thank you, President. It is in dispute are part of the deth diboish of a moment now our medieval history, which is situated in my own crown of Catalonia and Aragon. His diboish eth will live that link, on one side, eth Segre, eth Cinca, is Pireneus and was flat. The day before, that part of today's Madeisha territoriality still maintains that cultural relationship, that linguistic relationship, that socio-economic relationship that I put and it was fringe, it was the Aragon Strip, that tanben forms part of the Catalan Countries. And that's all it's hard to understand from Barcelona, from Zaragoza. And she finds out she's part of the problem. But do not deceive us; do not deceive us because this did not mean to defend the Romanesque art of Sixena. Since it is now possible to mautetà to this time james es paintings that are found in MNAC, if allowed eth traslat, it was defense of the integrity of the artistic assets gold of ester for the sake of the quinsevolh feeling of a jutjat of first instance, deth Tribunal Superior de Justicia o deth Tribunau Constitutionau. This did not mean to denounce it was politicization of this justice, it was justice of the Spanish State. As a result of the illustrious Catalan obsession with a lawyer and a state apparatus in the form of a harpsichord, we must call it a common feeling, now ethics and now reason. That didn't sound like you're going to be singing to monks, judges, museum directors. Due to the lying of the monks, it is pressure from the Government of Aragon and it is promised to advise now the platform of cultural entities in defense of the uncomplicated patrimony, so that we then became popular mobilization. That's why we're taking all of you and all of you to, say, give you a museum of Lheida. This did not seem to see the economic value of the fish. If we are not able to preserve artistic expressions that were then used to explain was the relationship of our past ladies and gentlemen, and we think and see, here, eth economic value of this sale, what type, what kind of country will we be? What kind of country are we going to ester, if we call it eth economic value of the causes? That was not the point of denouncing it was a strategy for the Council of Culture, Mr. Councillor, that I endorsed Tanben Peth Ministry of Culture, and that it was a strategy for the Council of Culture to act on this feeling that it did not hold itself by delusion; it was to act as an excuse for an administered transmission, et cetera decatalogacion, estera decatalogação des peces, que se de acer de er ante deth 25 de juriol comma merque esta sentencia. Here you're not talking about culture, you're not talking about heritage, you're not talking about identity, you're talking about bureaucracy; it was an excuse and it was bureaucracy, it was about defending heritage, it was culture, it was identity of today's country. This was not to be avoided by the police when he arrived in the Museum of Lheida or MNAC, all three of which are cut-outs, are stockings, is the mother of the Museum's Augustite. Because they won't get away with it, they'll get away with it, they'll get out of it, they'll get out of it, they'll get out of it, they'll get out of it, they'll get out of it, they'll get out of it, they'll get out of it, they'll get out of it, they'll get out of it, they'll get out of it, they'll get out of it, they'll get out of it, they'll get out of it, they'll get out of it, they'll get out of it, This is not to want or not to want, this is to a state of autonomy that you have, if you hold on to this feeling, and father bathed, and father móg, you do not serve any surrender; and for that you have ceased from the fifth year of the Spanish State, from the fifth year of judgment of first instance. That must have been the law of Catalonia, that we would never subdue the Spanish taxes. That's what's going to be born out of a pole that you're standing on top of. This goes to preserve artistic eth and not be barbaric. This has been respected by the international law of the past UNESCO, tanben, that so now conservation deth heritage and now united collections. This went to respect eth sentiment and it was united of a territory: Ponent and it was Franja, Païsi Catalans, who claims to remain culturally alive. That's not... that's not touching the museums. On the contrary, this was to put them all into value, to meter in value eth MNAC, as long as tanben was in value was the territorial network of museums, which were to structure, culturally dynamically ethnically territorial, and this is what I have to do with methropolic money, which is to structure and dynamically a whole collectible heritage that I have identified with these earths. This is, in short, to cry out that it was culture, not art, not free, not all of it is manifestation of your community. It was culture and it was madeisha's way of seeing that it had a pole. And that's not what I'm saying, here's a gentleman from Ponent saying Manuel de Pedrolo. This is a matter of sovereignty, of future, of freedom, of dignity, of renunciation to be submissive never for a politicized justice. And we ask ath Aragon's government. We ask ath Govèrn d'Aragon how he does not claim eth retaule der auttar major deth monestir de Sixena that I am in Museu deth Prado de Madrid ; how he does not claim all of the pieces of this Madeisha collection that they are in Museu d'Art de Toledo ; how he dreams of claiming is Catalan pieces. So nosati was answerable to him obvious, he was a political question against Catalonia, he did not rent it a month – he did not rent it a month – he was a political question against Catalonia; it does not go to art, it goes to politics. And we're asking now a couple of Catalan museums: against the ethics of the profession and an authoritative report was decatalogue? The authorization was a separation of collections, and they're back? Counselor, we ask you tanben, will you really disobey the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia, was the Law of Museums, was the Law of this Catalan patrimony, suffering a return from the ministry? And we ask Tanben ath Govèrn : it will not really be an agreement of government when it was responsibility for the current disobedience that we are demanding from here, when it was responsibility for this respect of Catalan law is still shared and does not follow that question so that it will be a councillor of Culture? You can't get a government order. And we ask the House, are all Members and Members of Parliament, that they are still in the water: did they really think that they were going against it was our own sovereignty? Indeed, are we not tired, yet, of this shame, and do we not choose to respect our own laws which we have from this cramp? Do they not have the autonomy of the Statute of Catalonia? Auem? So, if we love her, I want to respect her. But we were responsible, and we didn't. We don't have it because we are obedient to that cause which goes beyond this, which is the highest standard, which is the highest law that rules the country. And the problem of all this is very simple; the problem of all this is that we are not yet independent and that we cannot decide what we want. Eth troubles him that, a measly cup, many cry, and even not to disobedience. If it is a matter of which we can collect, it was valiant, we can collect, we can collect, because we were and there was identity as a people, and we were and there was dignity as a people. And so, so far, he was the dignity of a country called Sixena. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.140.0	Thank you very much, Miss Boya. Next, the words of Mr. Josep Maria Forné, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.141.0	Madam President, Vice-President, Counsellor, Members and Members, first of all allow me a little thanks, because the intervention I am making at this time, therefore, also represents two people, which I think are... – Teresa Vallverdú, who is the spokesman, and the Antonio Balasch – who are people with whom, as a group, we have worked especially, and also give thanks to the rest of the Members who have preceded me and who in some way endorse the agreement of this motion for a resolution. Everything has been said practically – it has been well explained by Congressman Ordeig, Congresswoman Gemma Lienas – about history and what we are here today. It's three different blocks; now what brings us is one in concrete, but they're quite connected, they're like communicating vessels that have enough to see. And with the motion for a resolution that we are presenting, there are two things that we are doing: it is asking the government – asking the government – to make a firm commitment that these collections will not be broken and that there will be a defense for the unity of the collections of the MNAC and the Museum of Lleida. The motive for this defense and this demand is twofold. I would say that a motivator is a motivator of convenience; convenience is not just like Catalans – then we'll talk about dignity, about which Congresswoman Mireia Boya spoke very well – it's not just convenience as Catalans, but convenience for the same fish. Fish are exposed with care, with protection, well exposed with a guarantee of extraordinary protection and, therefore, the best place is surely where they are. So it's time for them to be there. But, in addition, the transfer would be a technical disarray that, in the case of paintings, would put his safety at very risk. But it's not a question, as Congresswoman Mireia Boya said, only of money and technical convenience, for which we are here today. The other great motivation for which we are making this proposal is for a question of justice; it is a question... and with justice, dignity. It's a question of justice, why? Because these feelings go against the legality of the origin of these works. We are not talking about works which have a dark origin, which is not known, but they are works which have a clear origin, with documents of purchase and, therefore, in this sense, the legality of their origin is unquestionable. We committed... before this legality, this absolutely well-founded purchase, we would enter into an illegality. But there is still more – he has also hinted; it has been commented by the deputy Gemma Lienas –, we would not only enter – complementing these feelings – in an unjust solution, but, moreover, we would contradict our own legality, which obliges us to protect our own property. And that, therefore, here we have a second obligation of legality. The first, which guarantees the origin of these works, explained very well through the purchase when the monks leave to 1970 of the monastery, etcetera. But, plus, there's still one other thing that's not just a question of legality, but it's legitimity. A legitimacy that has to do with this story – what was called before Congresswoman Mireia Boya – that links us to the monastery, to the territory of Lleida, to the diocese of Lleida, more than eight hundred years old. Much of the evils come from when the diocese of Lleida is divided, between 1995 and 1998, in the division that it currently has and the eastern part, say, of the diocese passes to the Aragó. Interestingly, the only argument there is for asking for these works on the Aragonese side is – the only argument – a territoriality argument. The monastery of Sixena today corresponds to the administrative territory of Aragó and to the dioceses of Barbastre-Montsó. It is an adscript of twenty years ago, in front of eight hundred, and it is, curiously, defended for those who say that the rights do not have territoriality, and it is precisely based on a single argument, that it is this territoriality, but it is not taken into account that when all operations are carried out, the territoriality is linked to Catalonia. And you have a lot to see the feeling with a political content. Even more so, if, in addition to all these arguments that demonstrate the injustice of the feelings and the compliment of these feelings..., we could still find it against what would be the world's musestic practice of rearing. Why is it not claimed – it has been said several times – those fish that come from Sixena, which today are exposed to Prado, Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Zaragoza, Huesca, why is it not claimed these? Why are only those located or located at the MNAC or the Museum of Lleida claimed? Don't you have a clearly political ref? It's against all the museistic practices. For the sake of dignity, for the sake of justice, for the sake of convenience, if you want to be more utilitarian, you have to defend the unit of collection of the MNAC and the Museum of Lleida, and this is what is called for in this proposal. This also means being at the side of that city that, from organized or not so organized plataforms, defend this unit of collection and dignity as a people. Sometimes I have the impression that the powerful always end up asking for forgiveness of the dominated, and in this way remember that they are the ones who run. This time don't go like this. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.142.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Forné. Further, for the defense of the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.143.0	Thank you very much, Madam President, and good afternoon to everyone. "The Ebro is silent as we pass through the Pillar," says an Aragonese jota; "those who are not silent are the comrades of the PP, the PSOE and Podemos on the other side of the Ebro, and they leave us headlines like the following: Maite Pérez, the PSOE, and Counsellor of Education, Culture and Sport of the Aragonese Government says that "he hopes that the judge will fix the date of return of the property of Sigena as soon as possible. She reiterated that ‘the goods are from Aragon and have to return to their place. Let us now see what the PP says – I quote –: « The PP warns Catalonia that it will incur contempt if it does not return the assets of Sigena. Antonio Torres blames Lambán for the failure and the ridiculous result of the failed agreement of co-management with Catalonia. Then the PP comes up and – I quote textually – « asks Lamban to explain the threshold of the Sigena agreement with the Generalitat. And not just that. It turns out that on the PP website, we find the following news: « Torres asks Catalonia to comply with the sentences and to return each and every property of Sigena. You can see it: PP website. The Podemos have been more discreet, but they also leave us some pearl, huh? Amparo Bella has regretted that the Government of Catalonia is hostage to the most intransigent sectors. And then he adds that ‘we trust that sanity, dialogue, and goods can be shown and preserved in their place of origin as soon as possible. Old politics in the worst style. The PP, the PSOE and Podemos are dedicated to saying very different things next to and next to the Ebro. Here they ask that the goods of Sigena remain in Catalonia and continue to be part of the catalogue of the Catalan cultural heritage; while there the PSOE says that the goods are property of Aragon and that they have to return to their site. Here, Mr Albiol says that asking for the property of Sigena to remain in Catalonia does not mean going against any judicial mandate; while the spokesman for Aragon says that « Catalonia will incur contempt if the property does not return to Sigena, as can be seen on its website. And Mrs. Bella says they're hostages of the intransigent. That is to say, all those who have signed this motion for a resolution, including the Members of Podemos here in Catalonia, are hostages of the intransigent. I'd make myself look at it. Who do we believe? The PSC and the PP of Catalonia or the PSOE and the PP of Aragon? Can we or Can we? Who's lying? To whom do socialists, Catalans, or Aragonese lie? Who is the PP lying to, the Aragonese or the Catalans? And who's lying to, can we or can we? If you ask Mr. Pedro Sánchez or Mr. Mariano Rajoy or Mr. Pablo Iglesias, what is his position regarding the property of Sigena, what is the answer? I would have liked to have been told by the people who preceded us, let us hope that then, in the turn of the reply, they will be able to answer the position of Mr Sánchez, Mr Rajoy and Mr Iglesias with regard to the goods of Sigena, since their deputies say very different things. The only national party that says the same in Catalonia and Aragon and throughout Spain is Citizens. [[Widow's remorse.]] We, by not signing this motion for a resolution, are consistent with what we have always said: maximum respect for judicial decisions, whether we like it or not, and maximum respect for the separation of powers. We don't lie to the city, to the truth, to the Catalans as well as to the Aragonese. We're consistent, and we're saying the same thing all over the place. And I looked if you were predictable, that I already had the answer to give them. Not talking about cartels, man, that's not the same as an electoral cartel with different slogans, both of them telling the truth, that you're lying, because if you say one thing here and the other thing here, one of the two is lying, with that, we'd all agree, right? [[Some applause.]] We cannot sign a motion for a resolution stipulating that the Romanian workers in Catalonia when we have feelings calling for them to return to Aragó. We don't get in on whether or not we like these feelings. In fact, as in Barcelona, you can imagine, I already like to have these works at the MNAC, which is next to my house; as the MNAC user and lover of Romanic art I already like that they are there, and I suppose the people of Lleida pass the same, and the people of Aragó, too; but we, in this, do not enter. We, in our line, only ask to abide by judgments and respect for the separation of powers. We're looking at the court records of this, and I'm going to go over some of the things that have been said here. The year 2011, the Lleida Provincial Audience denies that the works are owned by the Lleida Museum and recognizes a joint declaration of the Bishopric of Barbastre-Montsó and Lleida that – I quote textually – "We reaffirm the character of ecclesiastical blessings and the property of parishes transferred to the Diocese of Barbastre-Montsó. In 2012, the Constitutional Court gave the Government of Catalonia the right in the sense that Aragó cannot exercise its competence over the assets situated in Catalonia, but did not judge in any case the property and possession of the tangible assets, or the possibility that the owner may claim before the ordinary justice. In 2015, a court of Osca declared the nullity of the sale of works by the Generality for the failure of the regulation of benefits of cultural interest in being– and this is very important– part of the monastery, that is, an immobile good that can only be sold in its conjunction. In addition, it declares nullity because the transmitter was not the rightful owner. It is true that the Generality has called this sentence and is pending the resolution of its appeal, and we do not see any impediment to the Generality continuing with all the judicial actions that you consider relevant, as we are clear in our first statement. Although this sentence has been called, which has already been said, it can already be executed, and that is what the government of the PSOE of Aragó has requested. The judge dismissed them and dismissed the opposition of the Generality. The party that supports the government and all the parties that have signed this motion for a resolution, in the strongest form of embolism, have opposed the execution of the 2015 ruling, making use of the 2012 Constitutional Court's ruling, which speaks of autonomous and non-proprietary competitions. And although the sentiments of both the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court are reiterated, one thing is that the pacts of Aragó, the Government of Aragó, are not valid in Catalonia, and in the opposite..., and another very different, than a private dispute over ownership and possession can and must be resolved by the ordinary civil jurisdiction. In fact, the Constitutional Court has already made it clear that the legitimacy or not of the sales had to be removed from the constitutional conflict raised, since it is exclusive jurisdiction of the civil court. We always seek what unites us and not what separates us, and we don't like what makes it a political struggle and a conflict between different administrations. And we think that the best thing for all the citizens is that the different administrations come to agreements that are favorable for all the citizens. And in this sense we have submitted three points to this motion for a resolution. I've already commented on the first one. Secondly, we ask all parties to the dispute which, in good faith and in compliment of the legal duties, diligently complete the obligations and duties which may be derived from the corresponding judicial pronouncements, with very special care for the maintenance of integrity and the preservation of the benefits of artistic and cultural interest. Because this is really important: that works are kept in the right conditions and can be enjoyed by all citizens. And finally, we manifest the need to seek a friendly solution at all times based on the principles of cooperation, institutional loyalty and good faith among the public administrations involved, which could be beneficial to all citizens. Unfortunately, and absolutely incomprehensiblely, the rest of the parties have rejected these arguments, which seek the right understanding between the administrations, and have considered themselves more a text that runs counter to judicial judgements. I would not like to finish this intervention without recognizing the appointed position of the Councillor of Culture, Mr Santi Vila, of which we already know his chattering taranna and which has purchased to complete the sentences and also to age for the integrity of the works, a sensible position that seems to have found no respite to the party that supports the Government and the rest of the parties that sign this motion for a resolution. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.144.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. Then, according to Rule 165.2 of the Rules, the proposed parliamentary groups... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It seems to me that all groups have been greeted and rhetorical questions have been asked. I'm having a hard time, huh? I'm having a hard time. I think they've been asking... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] First we'll finish the exams and then, before the vote, we'll do it. What's going on is that... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] In any case, now he has the word, to pronounce himself on the papers, Mr. Josep Maria Forné.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.145.0	We don't accept the papers, there's no agreement. And I'd like to ask that when one goes against all others' direction why it's supposed that all others go against each other's direction. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.146.0	We're done with the debate, we're calling for a vote. Anyway, now... [[Marisa Xandri Pujol asks to speak.]] Mrs. Marisa Xandri.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.147.0	Thank you, President. Yes, the word for allusions and contradictions is required. Let's see, Mrs. Sierra, tell you that I think you've wasted your time looking for documentation to discredit the PP. If you had listened to me a little bit, just a little bit, you would have realized that I have said the same thing my Aragon colleagues say, and that is that at no time will we fail to comply with the sentences when they are firm, we will never fail to comply. And then I also say to you that in no case does this motion for a resolution speak of dismissing any judgment. Thank you. [[Albano Dante Fachin Pozzi asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.148.0	Mr. Albano Dante.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.149.0	Thank you. No, I wanted to remind Mrs. Sonia Sierra... I understand that maybe... in her party the order and command works and it's what Albert Rivera says. In our party, the Members of our party make decisions, among other things, in a way, to say it in a way, plurinational. And if Aragó's companies think otherwise, they are invited to run for office in the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Óscar Ordeig i Molist asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.150.0	Mr. Orderig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.151.0	Thank you, President. For contradictions and allusions, various beasts. Look, Mrs. Sierra, do you know what that is, what makes him angry, at you? It is that today the PP – the PP – has passed his hand through his face. The PP, precisely, has done an exercise demonstrating that this is not a conflict between territories, but that it is a legal conflict, and that what it must be that the Parliament of Catalonia defends its competitions, as the Aragonese will defend its interests. And you teach us what's new and old politics. So what he did today, precisely, is neutral politics. Neither that nor that. Because you say that this is an attack, this is very bad, and it turns out that then you present precise statements to defend that we try to exhaust all procedures to try and get the works to stay in Catalonia. For that matter, or one thing or another. Therefore, plural country, and the Aragonese who defend it, and you defend the interests of Catalans and Catalans. [[Some applause. Sonia Sierra Infante asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.152.0	Mrs. Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.153.0	Thank you, Madam President. I'd need half the ple to answer all the things that have been said. Sir, I feel like you've changed so much yesterday late, because yesterday late, it seemed to you that these items were fantastic. What happens is that the rest of the parties didn't want to accept them. To me, personally, the one who makes PP or left to make truth that is indifferent to me. Surely, you're not much more hanging than I am. We have reached the decision that we believe is appropriate: respect judicial decisions and separation of powers. And we defend all the citizens alike, not the place where they were born. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.154.0	The debate is over, so let's proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution on the works of art of the monastery of Sixena. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution on the works of art of the monastery of Sixena was adopted by 102 votes in favour, against and 25 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Procedure for choosing five members of the Higher Council of Cooperation]] [[284-00010/11]] The fifth point of the order of the day is: procedure for choosing five members of the Higher Council of Cooperation. We proceed, therefore, to the designation. I ask the third secretary, Mr Joan Josep Nuet, to read the names of the candidates proposed for parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.155.0	« Candidate proposals: Dolors Camats i Luis, Josep Estalella i Melich, Ignacio Farrando Miguel, Emili Nebot i Miralles and Albert Fernández Saltiveri.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.156.0	Since the number of candidates submitted is equal to the number of candidates to be provided, according to Rule 99.3 of the Rules of Procedure, can we take this vote by consent? [[Pause.]] Therefore, the candidates previously identified as members of the Higher Council of Cooperation are designated. [[Procedure for choosing a member of the Social Council of Pompeu Fabra University]] [[284-00001/11]] Let's move now to the sixth point of the order of the day, which is: procedure to choose a member of the Social Council of Pompeu Fabra University. In addition to Article 82a of the Law 1/2003, of the 19th of February, of the Universities of Catalonia, we proceed, therefore, to the designation. The candidate proposed for Parliament to the Social Council of Pompeu Fabra University in place of Mr Carles Mundó is Mr Jordi Marín and Puigpelat. If there is no objection, the proposition that this designation is also done by consent. [[Pause. Anna Gabriel and Sabaté ask to speak.]] Mrs. Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.157.0	We would argue that you are voting... not so much because we have a problem with the candidate in question, but because we are critical of the function of the social councils of the universities. We understand that they do not represent the democratic life of the institution.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.158.0	All right, then. We're voting. We understand that they will be in favour of the designation, and they will not, contrary to the designation. Okay? [[Pause.]] The vote will therefore begin. The candidate remained... approved by 118 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. [[Procedure for electing two members of the Social Council of the Polytechnic University of Catalonia]] [[284-00002/11]] The next item is the procedure for electing two members of the Social Council of the Polytechnic University of Catalonia. In addition to Article 82a of the Law 1/2003, of the 19th of February, of the Universities of Catalonia, we proceed, therefore, to the designation. The candidates proposed for the Parliament of Catalonia to the Social Council of the Polytechnic University in place of Mr. Miquel Asensio and Mr. Cristian Rovira are Mr. Pere Casals and Mr. Perramon and Mr. Ricardo Faura and Mr. Homedes. If there's no objection, the proposition that this... [[Anna Gabriel and Sabaté ask to speak.]] Mrs. Gabriel, we're voting, okay?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.159.0	We would ask that they are voted, and we would take advantage of these new names more... because the social councils of the universities are positions against the petition of more than eleven years in prison than..., in fact... about students, NOT and professorship of the Autonomous University of Barcelona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.160.0	Mrs. Gabriel, can the vote be made by all two candidates at the same time? [[Pause.]] Yeah? Okay. So we'll vote for all of the candidates now, okay? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. The candidates have remained... approved for 117 favors, against 10 abstentions. [[Draft Law amending Law 6/1998 of 13 May 1998 regulating the operation of cooperative credit sections (debate of totality)]] [[200-00008/11]] The eighth item on the agenda is: a total debate on the draft law amending Law 6/1998 of 13 May, regulating the operation of cooperative credit sections. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative is presented by the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Oriol Junqueras. [[Pause.]] I'll tell them if they have to leave... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'll tell them if they have to leave in a hurry, please. Vice President, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.161.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. On the 9th of June we introduced the Decree Law on the creation of the Cooperative Fund to support the credit sections of the agricultural cooperatives. We are resubmitting the text validated for this chamber to initiate its processing as the law project. No new features respect what we already explained on June 9th, but we would like to take advantage of our department, the government, in order to highlight the need of the sector to be able to have a tool, a tool like this, in order to avoid that the possible liquidity problems of some section of credit may end up causing a systemic crisis in the sector itself. It is known that the creation of the cooperative fund was born with the opposition of a minority part of the credit sections, which have constituted themselves as a platform to defend the interests that believe this initiative..., affects them. We agree to speak, during the processing of the text as the bill, to incorporate all those items that improve and enrich the norm. I am sure that this debate will lead to a stronger text. I don't seem to be wrong – and if I'm wrong, I'm sure you'll have the power to correct me – I'm convinced I'm not wrong, if I say that creating this foundation for the sector of the sections of credit enjoys a broad support of the groups of this Parliament. And it means that, as much as we share the will to create this tool, we also find nuances in its configuration and management. As we have always said, our will – and that of the majority of cooperatives with a credit section – is to provide the sector with a new structured instrument to facilitate financing for those cooperatives that agree to lower the credit section and proceed to its orderly liquidation, thus preserving the credit balances and interests of the members. The Government considered that it had to act immediately by amending Catalan legislation in the area of credit sections with the creation of this funding support, as a proactive structured measure in order to be able to deal with possible future crises. The objective of this instrument, therefore, is to provide the sector's combination with stability and sustainability. And so that this instrument is useful and effective it is essential that all co-operatives with credit sections subject to this law are obliged to form and participate in the credit sections support co-operative fund. Otherwise, it would be an instrument that would be born with the doubt of its usefulness, since it would be at the mercy of the will of each cooperative. We cannot enjoy the guarantee that they will participate in it. It is important that it is clear that it is not a fund created to help solve a concrete problem of a cooperative, but it is a fund created to ensure the stability of the whole sector, of all cooperatives with a credit section. It is also important to consider the good will that so far has been shown by some of the cooperatives to help resolve situations that, if made worse, may affect them in some way or other. In this sense, this bill determines that all support operations financed by cooperatives with a credit section with the object of contributing to the return of the credit balances of those credit sections that have granted their credit are integrated into the cooperative fund, because, otherwise, it would be a penalty to make them contribute twice. Finally, I would like to reiterate the willingness of the Government and the parliamentary group to support it and to incorporate all those contributions which, coming from the same parliamentary groups that form part of this chamber, come from the same sector of agricultural co-operativeism, make the fund a useful tool for the rehabilitation and the good margin of the sections of credit and, as a result, of the agricultural activity to which these sections of credit support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.162.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Next, let us move on to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to fix their position. In the first place, has the word Mr. Francisco Domínguez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.163.0	Good afternoon, President. I wanted to start by giving special importance to the subject of parliamentary majority voting. We are talking about a process of law because the majority needed to pass a decree law was missing, and that is it. Without a strong opposition we would not be here, that is, we would have no options to discuss improvements and consensus – as the Councillor has rightly said in his speech – and so we will be able to hear all the points of view. Nor do I want to forget to congratulate the Government on the speed in which it has moved from decree-law to law-making. Another important point is that the debate is being dealt with one hundred_per_cent – or almost one hundred_per_cent – from the councillorship of Economy i Hisenda, which is already well, but we are talking about credit sections of agricultural cooperatives, and I think that the agricultural councillorship should have a lot of presence in this debate because of the impact that what is being done or stopped is likely to have on the sector. Let us think that we have eighty_y_three– eighty_y_one now– credit sections; we will see the remaining ones in three years, but for the moment we are on a map of ninety_y_three municipalities, which are also concentrated these ninety_y_three municipalities, in the southern cone of Catalonia, so the territorial incidence is very important. Territorial impact on an agricultural sector suffering from an ageing population, a decrease in the number of inhabitants and a decrease in agricultural income. And a sector that is also vertebrating the territory. I therefore call on Agriculture to be even more involved. To take into account that the model of cooperatives with credit section offers facilities to agricultural producers and a service to the population. It is a model that is highly implanted and that collaborates in the socio-economic fabric of rural southern Catalonia. But it is clear that a cooperative fund, which is what we are talking about, is an essential tool. In the end, it will be the producer partners, the farmers who will contribute this capital. It is clear that the Cambrils tax collectors, I dare say, have all the rights to dispose of their savings, because there are situations of drama, but careful, we do not have to put at risk the model of agricultural cooperatives with credit section and even less put at risk the very activity of the agricultural cooperative. We have to ensure that economic, financial or real estate activities, even, which have nothing to do with agriculture, always end up paying the usual: the pay. It reminds me a little bit of the fable of the cigarette and the ant – which I don't need to explain here – and therefore I insist again that because of its impact on agriculture we should have a lot of impact on the viability plans that are being studied when discussing this project. There is a phrase that is not mine, which is very repeated on the web, which is: "The moneys of the camp, per the camp, and I..., I like this phrase very much and I want to make it mine, because, really, the moneys of the camp should go to the camp and not to other issues. We have to work on three points. Speaking to all parts of the sector, in the end three points are repeated. One is the issue of retroactivity, the issue of transparency and the issue of the guarantee of the fund. Retroactivity, because it affects having to put more or less money, basically. Transparency is essential, of course; we all want to know how and who is going to manage this fund, and we need a consensus, but then there is the issue of the guarantees of this fund. This is what can make all other points – transparency and retroactivity – more or less acceptable to the rest of the credit sections, and broaden the basis for consensus. A lack of confidence has been generated that we need to recover. At this point, the parliamentary groups and the Government have to come up with positions so that all the agents involved, the federation of cooperatives, the Association of Credit Sections, the most critical groups of cooperatives, the Union of Pagesos and other agricultural entities, even the credit sections that have not assumed and are not aware of the consequences of this decree or of this proposed law – let us remember that this decree remains in force – and above all we have to ensure that if the tax collectors, in the case of Cambrils, have the right to recover their savings, the producer partners that are going to make 100_per_cent of the contributions to the fund want it to be guaranteed and not five years from now, demand a more short-term guarantee. To finish, two points. One, neither the decree nor the law should be used to conceal or distract attention from the possible responsibilities of poor management or control, for example in the case of Cambrils or other precedents of the last five years under discussion; and second, if this law is being dealt with as a matter of urgency, I ask all groups for a sense of responsibility and to minimize the deadlines and not exhaust the procedures for the law to come out as soon as possible, because right now what we have in force is a decree that we want to correct in order to improve it. I therefore appeal to the responsibility of all groups. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.164.0	Thank you very much, Mr Dominguez. The words of Mr Ordeig of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.165.0	Thank you, President. Agriculture Councillor, Councillor, Vice President, members of the Government, Agriculture, the Economics Department, welcome to the Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives of Catalonia, the Association of Credit Sections... We will be here again, so I will try to be concisive and not exhaust the time to say what we have already said; we will again make a debate to the totality, to which there is no alternative text, so what we have said is what we have said in the future, all that we have to say..., as we have said, obviously we have to do; we have more time, we have more time, we want the people to appear, the different entities, the people who have doubts, who can appear; they can appear in the list, we can present. So here we have it. Claiming once more that this is important, not for the economy, this bill is important not for the economy of the country, that also, but for the salvation of our agriculture and, obviously, for cooperatives, and above all, for Tarragona and the Tarragona and Ebro regions and for the Lleida regions, which is where cooperatives are concentrated with sections of credit. We agree – we agreed and we agree – that you are following the parliamentary process of the bill; we are submitting papers and we are also asking that all of us fold in to be as flexible as possible, and I believe that this has been done at the length of the process, so that we can incorporate those cooperatives with sections of belief that they do not see it clearly. And some of the contributions that are made are reasonable, I would say recommendable and therefore enrich the bill. Cannot make a law of sections of credit without the maximum percentage of cooperatives with section of credit that has this country. Therefore, we believe that what we have to say to the Government, what we have to say to the different parliamentary groups, what we have to say to the sector is: we try to change in the measure of what is possible and they understand as one of the priorities that is to avoid contagion and that there is an orderly settlement of sections of credit, that it is not like a shop, like any business, it is a financial system of the agricultural sector and, as my company says, I think that this is a good reflection, "the money in the camp, in the camp, not the money in the camp to make stories that they do not have to see with the development of the agricultural sector, with the agricultural activity, because that is why we have some of the problems that we have now, precisely, it is certainly not so much. We are in favour of creating the fund, we have said it and we say it again. We think it's better to work. People ask us for guarantees; you make a 3_per_cent disbursement of your deposits. The same way that the government will give 75 percent of these money guarantees to Cambrils, so, this, future dispositions of this fund can also look at how we cover the guarantee, how we don't lose these money. As we did to improve control, management, efficiency of these foundations. So, come on, welcome the contributions. As we do because the government, the department of economics, which is not only, here I also want to claim the role of the department of agriculture, which is who knows the sector, which is who manages the sector and, therefore, I believe that here there must be good collaboration so that it does not only move economic parameters, but also. Because I want to say one thing, the finance sector will be better or worse, the banks of the country, but it is that the cooperative sector with sections of credit is, in general, good. The banking sector in general would like to have these liquid availability coefficients, much above what the law marks, the reinforced liquidity or the financing coefficient for cooperatives, all very well, but it is not less certain that we have a series of hard open, hard open expedients in different cooperatives that they love..., that we can have some problems, and that they will surely have to liquidate neatly and without the people losing their stalls, because if they lose them and if we don't make the fund and there is an ordered system of liquidation of the sections of credit they will come here to ask us that we, the Parliament, keep the money. And the parliament can't stay for the money, huh? As we also ask to professionalize the management of credit sections, improve it. As we also ask that there be automated control or unified computer programs of the different sections of credit to be able to monitor day-to-day how the situation of the different sections of credit is and detect problems in time. And, therefore, a series of measures that, with the meeting that we held with the department – and we also appreciate the predisposition – so they are also above the table and can be studied. Therefore, constructive attitude, open the text to new contributions, aware that it is necessary to avoid contagion and that it is necessary..., it is a tool that is necessary, and aware that it is not an economic activity of any kind. To demand financial solvency, the good work of cooperatives, the good work of most sections of credit, and, therefore, what this Parliament has to do is to support it, to improve it, to believe it and, therefore, to take the necessary steps, also with endorsements, resources and necessary legislation, because this model can go on for a hundred years, as at least. And then we would ask, therefore, the Government... – we have already said, Department of Economy, Department of Agriculture –, like the different parliamentary groups – Together for the Yes, like the group that supports the Government, and the different parliamentary groups –, like the Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives, like the Association of Credit Sections or the platform that brings together some of the entities, of the cooperatives that are not..., that have doubts..., that all of us are still talking, that we are all flexible and that we are trying to integrate everyone who wants to integrate, and everyone who wants to participate, everyone who wants to improve and everyone who wants to see that we need to define a strategy for the future of cooperatives. We'll be here, we'll be in this key. And, finally, the People's Party Group, now that I see the Alexander who listens to me very carefully, the one who voted against, I mean, I'm sure you think the heine can be a good tool with some modifications. I think we should make every effort here to find ourselves – as we are finding ourselves with Lleida's cooperatives, we find ourselves with Tarragona's cooperatives – especially those who do not see it clearly to do pedagogy, to collect papers. And here it's not a nobody's imposition. I think we all have to make it right, make it better, because it's everybody's law. So, we don't talk about totality, we'll make partial statements. And just add..., with this beautiful phrase that Ciutadan's company commented on "camp money, for the camp, I would add: "We defend the land, we defend our agriculture and we defend our territories with a good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.166.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Ordeig. Next, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.167.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counselor... today we are debating the entire bill: a parliamentary process, because unanimously all the groups in the chamber voted that the law decree ended by validating itself and, above all, that it is arranged as proposed by the law. Why? Because we all felt that the creation of this liquidity and support fund was necessary to ensure that, in the case of a down payment of a credit section, the credit balances could be returned to the holder. But, we said it then and we repeat it today, we did not like the press of this decree, we did not like how the decree was done, connected to the emergency, even though today Vice President Junqueras said that he has nothing to do with the situation of Cambrils. Documents don't say that. In the same documents that you have made and in the meetings that we have held with representatives of the department, it did, too, bind you to resolve the situation of Cambrils, because it is not a minor situation, it is not like the situation of the Village, which was important but there were not so many millions. And we assume that the presses and the way they did are bound to resolve the situation of Cambrils' credit section failure. Look, we, as the citizen's company used to say, will put all the facilities because it can be processed, but I do say, now, that there are a series of questions of the decree that we do not like and that we will try that in the period of..., in the processing, with the papers, it is possible to solve. Look, we don't like the democratic deficits that have occurred in the information and voting of the different governing bodies of the cooperatives, where the decision was made to collaborate or not with the substantive element without the basic cooperative members according to the Associated Credit Sections connegated and can debate and vote for the convenience or not of the substantive. And we're talking about a very serious issue, because it's his money, and that, besides, as the fund stands, today they're not..., there's no guarantee, they're not guaranteed. They don't like us, either, some of the aspects of the same content of the bill, do they? As we have had occasion to express it to the government. So we did it at the meeting that we held two weeks ago with the Aragonese Father and we said that some points did not please us. And, besides, some points of these that we don't like coincide with some of the points that other cooperatives demand – the Antifons Platform, which has been created with important cooperatives – and that have worked together other times like the Cambra Arrossera d'Amposta or other cooperatives. And we share some of the claims that this platform makes, and we also share the preventions that it had in respect of the Pages Union, and also the requirements that the same Greuges Syndic made when it was approved... when you made the decree. Miri, we think... there's an initial theme, right? , or as a mark, that is that we believe that this co-operative foundation, that it is to serve us, and that it is many years ago... – I said in my previous intervention –, many years ago that we wanted to create it and we had not created it, it must be a tool that must also serve us to help restructure the sector. Therefore, it has to be a structural tool, not a conjunctural tool of this moment to save now the paper. And we believe that, because it really is a good structural tool, we need parallel restructuring of the sector. I mean, we need to make it clear, first. We need to separate those cooperatives, those situations, those sections of credit that have a risk situation, that need a rescue, help it. So, you have a different treatment from the rest of the co-operatives and this fund. Because, if not, what we can end up doing is a very big, very big, very big pilot, and what's now helping us save this moment, is a very big pilot three or four years from now, who ended up getting more cooperative. Therefore, separate who is now having liquidity problems, who has had a rescue situation, from how we structure the fund. In the bill it is also first, it is mounted so that first access to liquidity is above the deposit guarantee coefficient. Clearly, this is a topic that will be discussed in depth. We will present papers, because it is first to have the guarantee of the money; but, in change, do not lose them. And that, there are many cooperatives that don't agree, because it's logical, nobody wants to throw into the pool. The tax collectors, the partners want to have the guarantee that they will be able to recover their funds, because they are the money of their work, of their daily effort. And the paycheck, everyone knows it's very hard. We don't like it either, just like this set up, the mandatoryity of the fund. See, we understand that the fund has to be binding, but that it's planted in the decree as a menu of chanting..., it's to say, it's mandatory and those that don't come in, we don't give them six months to liquidate the credit section and..., well, two months of demand and in six months to liquidate. Home, that's putting the rope on the collar! It's a chant when, besides, with the previous regulations, it didn't do that. When the 2014 change was made, when the change that required the annual plans was made, people were given time. Well, it's more, I'd say, it was so lax and it was given so much time that... maybe that's why we got here, right? Clearly, what we cannot have is passed from a lax and flexible situation to this situation of chanting, to say: "Those who do not enter, those who do not want to contribute, in six months to liquidate the cooperative and close it all. I don't think so, that we need to have flexibility and see how we can resolve it. We also have doubts about what he's doing back in five years. And that's what the syndic said to them – that's what the syndic said to them – and that's what the report said to them... well, the press release that the Pages Union made. Why five years? Why don't you give them years? Because before five years other co-operatives had also been rescued. Five years between the Village, between, now, Cambrils, between Montblanc... Why five years and no more years? And why... – above all, the one who gave it before – so that we do not disconnect those ransoms that were made..., which, moreover, the sections of credited them did them on time, those cooperatives voluntarily left the money to others to rescue them; so that this follows their course, as a financed operation, let us disconnect it from this foundation that we want to push. We also detect, after various meetings with the sector, that we have kept in Tarragona – and I say so, eh? , with powerful co-operatives, important from our territory – that there is a lack of confidence with the Credit Section Association. This is an issue that we don't like and that will need to resolve because we think it's not positive. Therefore, we will have to resolve that the sector is back to trust and that there is a council, a manager in which there is not only the Association of Credit Sections, but there is a strong presence of the government and there is also a presence of the other cooperatives. I mean, we're already looking for the most democratic and transparent mechanism that adapts. Because they don't agree that this is... the board of directors of this second-degree cooperative that you administer. And, therefore, it will be necessary to work to reach agreement between all parties and to search for formulas that increase this transparency. We are also concerned – we have already told Mr Aragonès – the economic regime of the fund, which allows low risk and high liquidity financing operations. Because, in the end, "low risk are risky operations, and with things to eat you don't play, they say. And we believe that the money that lays the pages, the fruit of his effort and his work, must be for the earth, because, in the end, all this generates insecurity. And, above all, because we believe that this tool needs to be used because in the medium and long term we can order the sector, we can eliminate the bad practices, strengthen the cooperative model, which is the main tool. It is the main tool that the producers, the pages, have in order to get a fair price for their product and to be able to continue living on the earth. And living the land is no less, it means staying in the territory, it means fixing the territory, it means another model of territorial distribution. Therefore, it is no less that we are discussing today, because in the end we are talking about the agri-food sector, one of the most important sectors of Catalonia. We're talking about food sovereignty. We're talking about territorial rebalancing. Therefore, I too am very much in favour of what my fellow Members have said, and you are also bringing it to the Committee on Agriculture, from here, therefore, to conjugate all of us in order to have a good way, not for now, but for the long term... and, above all, to complete what we have approved in this Parliament. And I will remind you only one point: the 14.j point, of the monografi cal debate on agriculture, which we voted for all groups unanimously, in what we say we would defend..., "to defend and promote the model of the credit sections of agricultural cooperatives as a financing instrument characteristic of Catalan cooperativeism, viable and useful for the rural community. This is our will and we hope that, among all of us, we can get out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.168.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Grau. Next, the words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.169.0	Thank you, President. As has been explained several times, we were the only parliamentary group that voted against in the vote on the decree for reasons that I will not explain so extensively as that day; they were basically five. The first is that it is an imposed fund, with an arbitrary designation of a single fund administrator. This we considered that the way it was done was not correct; that it generates uncertainty – it generates uncertainty – based on the fact that the formalization criteria are not clear; that it is a point of absence, full of risks for the co-operatives, and then, even though it is very insistent that it is not made ex-professional for the question of Cambrils, it is, and will not, solve it, but rather that it is better. And, finally, who knows that we agree with criteria that have been put forward by other spokespersons, because effectively the issue of retroactivity is not clear and then it was done with a clear lack of consensus, a deep division, that I think it is something that they will have to solve – that it is something they will have to solve – and lack transparency. Okay. That's what happened on the other day's debate. But we believe in the parliamentary debate. We are listening to Mr Ordeig, who was not listening to me so much, but, well, I suppose he's absolutely nothing..., I suppose he's tired of feeling, I haven't withdrawn him... ; but in any case, we believe deeply in the parliamentary method, and therefore – and with this I end, because, I insist, I think that the deep debate was produced the other day – we will be at the disposal of the rest of the parliamentary groups – we are with the cooperatives, we are constantly holding meetings – to improve the text. And, therefore, this provision is placed here on the table and this offer to the rest of the parliamentary groups and, obviously, to the cooperatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.170.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Next, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.171.0	Thank you, President. Well, we've already said the plenary of June 8th, from the CUP we see in place that it's passed as a bill of law, we understand that the sector needs an instrument that guarantees its claims in the event of difficulties in the liquidation of the credit section, but also the same June 8th we pointed out a series of contradictions that seemed to us to have to be resolved; some have already come out and others have not. The first evidence is that it is a matter of debate with all the people in the sector, the councillor has recognized it, and we understand that the question of law can be an opportunity for this. Secondly, the back-activity of five years in the application of resources to the fund seems a contradiction to us, because precisely it punishes those people who have managed the cooperative properly. In the third place, we doubt that the formula to guarantee profitability must be a cooperative of the second degree. And we want to raise a couple of questions – we said it in the past Ple –: Where will the resources be? In financial products? We understand that these are subject to market variability and that, therefore, they put the funds at risk; it is enough of a scale and more coming from the financial crisis from which we come. In this sense, we believe that it is necessary to prevent the banking of credit sections – it is something that has also been repeated in this chamber – and that it is necessary to clarify who has been responsible for the administration in all this situation, right? And we understand – and finally – that the cooperatives of credit are the legacy of a common practice, of collective taking of the risk to ensure the survival of the community, and, therefore, that it is necessary to lay down a bastion that protects them from the heights of the market, which precisely makes the risk an individual responsibility that collects the frail and the crisis. Therefore, we will participate and do so in this key. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.172.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Next, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.173.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice President, before starting my intervention, I would like to make a statement. Together for the Yes and the Government we bet for the sections of credit and for the world agricultural cooperation. And it's for this reason that today we find ourselves in this whole debate, it's about the totality of the past debate one month ago, when we're talking, therefore, about the law of the sections of credit. Although I would like to reiterate the content of our intervention a few days ago, we would like to make it clear that our parliamentary group wants to be able to make this debate on the agricultural sections, and that is why we would also call for the sector to appear, so that we can make this debate in depth. And, therefore, we also announce that we will make some papers on the same bill, papers that we want to make it possible for expert and independent people, therefore, to form part of the delegations of the governing councils, of the associations of the credit sections or of the cooperative societies; or papers that we also want to detail the criteria for which the cooperatives will have the support to finance the fund. These are just two examples of the clear will of our parliamentary group to reach an agreement, not just with the rest of the groups, but also with the rest of the sector. However, we would like to reiterate our full support for the cooperative fund to support the sections of credit, because this is an important fund if we want the survival of the sector, a fund that must allow when a cooperative or a section of credit arrives at a situation of financial crisis, this situation does not run the risk of contagion with other sections of credit. And more so, because we want to give the money that these tax collectors have in these credit sections. And that's the reason we move and for which we want this law decree, this bill of law to go forward and, more importantly, do it with as much consent as possible. Because what we want is that these moneys – which as you all know are not subject to the coverage and guarantees of the different financial entities – of our citizens and our tax collectors, therefore, are guaranteed. And this is our will and for which we will work and work hard. We understand from Juntes for the Yes, and we also understand from the Government, that the problem is not what it is but that, in any case, the problem is how. And we are willing to try to reach the necessary agreements so that we can keep this safe between the cooperatives and also the different parliamentary groups. Nevertheless, the fact that I would ask you that, while this consensus and this participation that we are also asking for, this debate remains agile – be agile – and we can finish this bill as soon as possible, because it is important; it is important to be able to do so. And a comment only to Mr. Ordeig, the DAR, the Department of Agriculture, is between the follow-up committee on these sections of credit. Therefore, the Department of Economy and the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food also form part of these negotiations. Thank you very much; good debate and hope that the bill will soon have its life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.174.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cervera. The debate is over, and since there are no totalities, this initiative can continue its processing. [[Proposal for legislation on the profit of surplus food (debate of totality)]] [[202-00017/11]] The new point of the order of the day is: debate of totality on the proposition of law of the profit of the surplus food. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, is presented by Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.175.0	Well, thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Councillors, Councillors – who are not here at this time, but I am aware that they are in the building – would also like to greet first of all..., to thank the presence of the people and entities who accompany us at these times, Mr Lluís Tomás and Filomeno Souto, who are directors of the Martorell Assembly, who have presented a motion on this subject a few weeks ago. And as the order of the day has advanced a little respect to the forecast schedule, then will join also Mr. Paco Muñoz, Montse Argemí and Virginia Ferrer-Vidal, of the Platform « We take advantage of the food, and Mr. Carles Ribera and Farrás, of the Council of Entrepreneurs Distributors of Food in Catalonia. As a minimum, I wanted to greet them, as well as incorporate them further. The Socialist Parliamentary Group brings to the plenary a proposal for a law on the profit of surplus food. This law must allow us to put on top of the table, analyze and search for shared and effective solutions on the part of all sectors involved in the food chain and also, obviously, the public administration of Catalonia, with three main objectives: to introduce a change in the behaviour and attitude of society in order to recover the value of the food; to conceive the food remnants as an appeal, fighting against the malarrangement and placing the emphasis on the various social and solid initiatives that today are already bringing to an end at the country's border, and to reduce the residue as a mechanism to reduce the current ecological scourge. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to bring you a short approach to the current situation of food mismanagement, as much of what happens to Spain as happens to Catalonia. The most recent data on this subject, at the Spanish level, were published on 28 June, for the Ministry of Agriculture, mediating the first multisectoral debate on food mismanagement in Spain, organized by the Consumer and User Organisation. The data are worrying: between 30 and 50 percent of edible foods end up in rubble. According to the European Commission, Spain is the seventh country that eats more awkwardly after the United Kingdom, Germany, Holland, France, Poland and Italy. In Spain, according to data from the ministry, it is malicious 7,7_million_tonnes of food every year. In Catalonia, according to the data prepared for the Catalan Agency of Residues of Catalonia and the Autonomous University of Barcelona, more than 262,000_tones per year are embalmed, it is to say, that every catal more than thirty-five kilos per year. Both Spanish and Catalan background data coincide to warn that it is the families that are most embezzled, and in the case of Catalonia it is 58_per_cent; 16_per_cent, supermarkets; 12_per_cent, inn; 9_per_cent, retail trade; 4_per_cent, catering companies, and 1_per_cent, municipal markets. Therefore, we are the families primarily responsible for this situation. The OCU further indicates that 80_per_cent of what we fill are foods as we bought them at the supermarket, and 20_per_cent are leftovers of processed foods. As I said earlier, there are also economic and environmental implications behind malarrangement. In economic terms, the imbalance would represent a hundred_dotze_euros per inhabitant, i.e., some 841_million euros per year in Catalonia. And from the environmental point of view, a given exemplifier: all the junk foods in one year would correspond to 20_per_cent of the agricultural surface of Catalonia. And I end up with a given at the international level facilitated by the FAO: with half the current food losses it could feed all the people that go through the world. The Socialist Parliamentary Group believes that this is an issue that we have a lot to do with the country. In addition to economic and environmental implications, we find social implications. The consumer society in which we live creates paradoxes like the one we carry today in this House. On the one hand, one part of our society lives with difficulty to access basic needs, people with difficulty to eat every day, and, on the other, one part of society, which is left with food and food. As always, civil society goes ahead of the institutions, but we are still in time, like the country, to follow the example of other European countries, like France, which at the time of the fever passed an explicit law against food mismanagement, part of which inspires the text presented by my group, but also experiences carried to term to the United Kingdom or other European countries. With regard to Spanish legislation, we do not have any law on the characteristics of which we are proposing to Parliament. There are some references to Law 12/2013, with measures to improve the food chain, or codes of good practices published for the same ministries. But with this proposal we want to encourage all Members of Parliament's parliamentary groups, and all of the actors involved in the whole food chain, in their globality. We have to involve, as I said, all social agents: first of all, the Administration; producers, the food industry, distributors, restorers, social entities, waste managers and, obviously, families, to make a law that can be relevant to other territories and that will in the future reduce the current mismanagement. Catalonia is on condition that we can do it, and we need to do it right. The proposition of the law that we defend today is not against anyone, all the contrary. The same legislative process must allow us to learn, talk and agree, to all the actors involved; it must serve us to detect and reproduce, if necessary, the many good practices that already apply to the territory by all of them. The local world also knows some of them. In the past few years, the assemblies have concluded agreements with social entities, social services, supermarkets or the same inn network of municipalities in order to guarantee food to families who need it directly or through food banks or social caterers. The same Generality has also worked on this issue, from the Catalan Food Security Agency and the Catalonia Residue Agency, to raise awareness, dissemination and coordination of projects. Good practices, well-directed, that need a general_mark and a country bet, which is what we want to do with this law. A proposal which, moreover, must be respectful of territorial diversity, and where the actions to be carried out must be decisive and at once flexible and adaptable to all the realities that exist in Catalonia, and with the projects that are already carried out today. I will then go on to unravel some of the most prominent aspects of the proposal. I insist that everything is questionable and better, but the job will be easier if we start with a basic text, where we put black on white some of the proposals. For what it does to producers, the proposal of the law contemplates the development of initiatives aimed at reducing waste, especially of the organic ones, to more to contemplate, in the strategies of corporate social responsibility of the enterprises, actions aimed at reducing food miscarriage. The distribution sector – markets, hypermarkets and supermarkets – will have to make efforts to enable its workers and workers to act actively in reducing maltreatment, rather than trying to reduce even more – and we know that it is already done, in early meetings with groups and their representatives – the generation of expired food residues or with a date of preferential consumption and fresh produce. On the other hand, there is also a need to inform consumers about more responsible consumption patterns, making information on the use of food and waste more transparent. And, respect the hotels and the scope of the restoration, this law proposes to make it easier for the consumer to endurse at home the flat foods by means of carmanyola type packages, a fact that is more common every time at the restaurant. There is not much they already do, but this should be an extended practice for all restorers because it will help us to two things: first, to reduce the malaise, and, secondly, to become aware that we can demand it, as consumers, and to let go of the shame that exists on the part of some consumers to ask it. The proposal of the Law... – and now, I take advantage of it to greet the Lords Paco Muñoz and Montse Argemí, who have just arrived at this plenary, of the Platform "We take advantage of the food –, the proposal of the Law to reduce the amount of food coming from the remains of flattened roots and from which it cannot be reused in the kitchen, and, moreover, to promote the consumption of seasonal products, and, for another band, to improve the segregation of the organic fraction of that which is still able to take advantage. Social entities are responsible, too, for this law; we see that they have right to food from the donation in order to carry out their task of caring for the most disadvantaged collectivities. It will, however, be necessary to collect information and advice from public administrations, to make a good preservation of food and not to distribute food that does not comply with food safety regulations. But taking advantage of food surpluses is also an opportunity to strengthen social and collaborative economy initiatives. We must be able to establish a new framework for managing food resources and waste, encouraging use, procurement and responsible consumption of food in Catalonia. And finally it will be necessary for consumers to adopt more sustainable purchasing and consumption habits, by mediating information on the part of all the actors involved about mismanagement, with the aim of introducing changes in their consumption habits. The study published for the ministry points to some of the reasons for which families are malarguing more food. The lack of sensitivity, poor packaging, confusion with data of expiry and preferential consumption, the tendency to a greater consumption or every time more difficult possibility to buy in bulk are just some of them, and will need to seek solutions during the legislative process. It will also be necessary to establish the possibility of generating a brand that can identify those establishments that are compromised with the profit of the surplus food. In all cases, all sectors will have to prioritise prevention against maltreatment, reuse of surpluses both for donations and for composting for agriculture or for energy reuse or for any other processing or reuse of food. Public administration also needs to be involved in reducing malaise. You will have to set an example of your commitment and then give legal, regulatory, regulatory, and economic coverage to the aspects that reverse the law. The Socialist Parliamentary Group proposes some of them, such as the need for a plan to fight food mismanagement, a need that all political parties voted in favour of the past plenary of the poor. The plan must allow us to count on a general planning of the activities of collaboration with the subjects involved and of participation of social entities and collectivities working in the field of food; that it includes measures of coordination and interaction of experiences both of administrations as private and social initiative, measures of economic support, material and technical, educational and search activities intended to improve the profit of food, as well as to promote social awareness. But, more than reducing malaise, her proposal has to include other key aspects in order to achieve the success of the initiative. We need more education on this issue, and that is why we are proposing to include a programme of awareness, information and education on food abuse in educational plans, to promote awareness campaigns aimed at consumers, so as to recover the value of food and design food leftovers as a resource. We also need to promote research and innovation in the field of food. It is necessary to allocate more economic resources to the university's and technical research organisations' task of supporting the establishment of collaboration agreements, and, for other reasons, to improve the regeneration of waste in organic matter. These are some of the aspects that we consider most remarkable of this law proposal. There may not be all of them, but we think it's a good starting point to work from the dialog, looking for agreement with all the agents involved. A law that will benefit all of us, that counts on a large collection of good part of the population, concerned about the redistribution and profit of what we produce. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe that Catalonia needs and is on condition to give a step forward and be a pioneer in Spain to bring to fruition a law that reduces the excess of food, mitigating the involvement of all sectors of the food chain. It is an opportunity to put into value the good practices that companies, pickers and social entities already make in Catalonia, and also to look for joint strategies that end with the contradiction that supposes that every catalati malbarati more than 35 kilos a year and that at times vulnerable collectivities have difficulties to satisfy their needs as basic as food. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.176.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreno. Next, as no totality papers have been presented, we will proceed to the turn of interventions from the rest of the parliamentary groups, to fix their position. In the first place, has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.177.0	Thank you, President. I wanted to start by saying hello to the entities that are with us today, the "Appreciate Foods" Platform, and I also wanted to thank the parliamentary group that presented this bill that brought this debate to this parliamentary chamber, because I have to admit that working on this issue has been very interesting and enriching. I have been able to broaden my knowledge of a problem that covers several areas: ethical-social, environmental and economic, a problem in which we can all be part of the solution. And it is also that I have had a great time knowing particular initiatives to try to combat the problem of the waste of food surpluses, such as the Solidary Fridge, Álvaro Saiz, in Vitoria, or initiatives from social entities such as « Your garbage is worth an egg, from Ecologists in Action, in Seville. As has already been said, food waste has an environmental, economic and social impact, and occurs in all links in the food cycle. And from our parliamentary group we share the need to address this debate. That is why we have not tabled an amendment in its entirety. What we don't share is the way it's been done. It's a law proposal full of contradictions. On the one hand, it speaks of guiding principles, such as solidarity, altruism, generosity, cooperation, and on the other, rights and duties. And what's this supposed to mean? The rights, the possibility that the person who is granted them, who is able to exercise them, and the duties, the requirement by the Administration, or the person who is responsible for them, that things be done in accordance with the law. For example, Article 8 establishes the right of consumers to receive information from shops on the problem of food waste, with the aim of being able to make changes in their consumption habits in order to prevent it. Are we going to punish little Colmado Pepe for not recommending buying us half a dozen eggs instead of a whole dozen, under the guiding principle of solidarity, altruism, generosity and cooperation? Another example. Article 10 provides for the right of social action entities to receive food from the donation. If an actor has a right, another actor has an obligation; doing something by obligation is not solidarity, the demand is not altruistic, the obligation is not generosity. If solidarity is the guiding principle, there is a lack of concept here. You can't demand solidarity, you can encourage it. It is a proposition of superficial law, because it does not deepen, there is a lack of concreteness. It reminded me a lot of that last era of Zapatistaism, in which everything was slogans but there was no concrete, like the Sustainable Economy Act: "The economy will have to be sustainable, and capitalism will not have to subject the workers to hard work and will have to take care of the unemployed. A law with good intentions but without a concrete measure, i.e. a lot of noise and few nuts, or what it is to sell the bike only with the carnado, as is the case with this proposal of law. But major programmatic declarations are generally left for constitutions, for statutes, for international treaties, for the UN, delegating to the public authorities to achieve those objectives with measures. I'll give you an example. In Article 5c it states that it is a right of entities in various sectors to tax incentives for actions carried out in favour of the donation of food to social action entities, which will be determined by regulation. This is very naïve, because tax incentives have to be collected by law. You say that they will be determined by regulation, but it is that tax incentives have to go by law. If you wanted measures to promote those tax incentives, you would have had to put them into practice here, in the law. That is to grant a genuine right, to detail the rights and conditions under which access to them will be granted. This would have been appreciated by the operators involved, such as the Food Bank; not to say that there is a right or obligation. And here I come to the most rocky part, and I have to make a confession. And it is that, referring me to the history of this proposal of law, to the short time the Socialist Party was registered I read in a_media of communication that the government was preparing a bill on food waste. I thought: "The government is again inspiring itself in the opposition, announcing as its own initiatives something that has been claimed since the opposition for months. As with parliamentary times they play with advantage... Because let's not be fooled: it's from this opposition that initiatives are being promoted by the government, at least on social issues. Coming back. After that, I took refuge in the comfort of the fools, thinking that we were not the only ones to have this happen to us. But yesterday I took the surprise that I didn't. Because it gave me for rereading the summary of the report made by the Catalan Waste Agency, at the request of the Department of Territory i Sustainability, and I remained « ojiplatic « when I realized that the articulation of this proposal of law is based on the objectives recommended by that report, word by word, coma by coma. Copy machine copied. For a decent thing that the motu proprio government does without the existence of the opposition behind, they go and copy it; let me see, that I do not criticize it either, because as part of the opposition I thank the Socialist Party for giving Junts for drinking his own medicine. But the case is that, after this revelation, I understood why this law was so naïve: because they had dedicated themselves to copying the objectives of that report, but not to putting concrete measures in place to achieve those objectives. In any case, we fully agree with the purpose of the rule, our parliamentary group is aware of the problem, we will face the presentation phase with illusion, giving the content with our amendments, that what they will seek is that concreteness that we have found lacking, and addressing the issue with the depth that it deserves. As, for example, by agreeing on transparency measures or addressing the issue of taxation in a precise way, such as encouraging donations to food banks, specifying how. Food waste is particularly tearing in a context where increasing poverty and inequality endanger the coverage of basic needs, such as the right to adequate and healthy food among the most vulnerable groups. Now, this law, while timely, cannot serve to hide or make up the underlying problem, which is inequality, that there are people who depend on leftovers to eat while another part of society throws away food. What is really needed are redistributive tools to ensure that no one depends on leftovers to eat. This law has an ethical component of responsible consumption, no doubt, but it cannot be considered as a mechanism to ensure the basic needs of citizens' food, and that is something that is latent throughout the articulation of the law. It is only necessary to see permanent appeals to social action, voluntary, charitable and care-giving bodies for disadvantaged groups. Inequality cannot be combated by imposing charity; therefore, it is important to make it clear that this law is not aimed at alleviating inequality. We have to be brave and recognize that we are facing a complex situation, that we are not being able, as a society, to generate sufficient occupation for all those who are looking for it. And as long as this situation is not regularized, at least we must offer a solution to the citizens and give them a basis for subsistence. And that subsistence base is not just about giving leftovers, but about creating real redistributive, effective and dignified tools that ensure that no one stays in the gutter. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.178.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. De la Calle. Next is the words of Ms Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.179.0	Thank you, President. Greeting also the Platform "We take advantage of the food, which I have certainly made late, I apologize to the socialist MP, because we were gathered just before. To thank them for presenting this bill to us from the Socialist Party, because actually the law's debate can be interesting and I believe that it can lead us to all pleas to do some interesting exercise, such as Parliament, of regulation in this sense. He said, but he's no more than we all remember. What are we talking about? Of a phenomenon, the food malaise, characteristic of our societies, characteristic of the developed societies of the world, characteristic of a determined system, of systems of production, of logistics of distribution, of normative conditions that every year occasion that there is malaise food. So, yes, the production system is inefficient and it generates badly. One-third of the food produced in the world is lost or discarded; in Catalonia, it has been said, about thirty-five kilos per inhabitant per year. And, as I was told a while ago by the companies of the Platform "We take advantage of the food, this is only a part of it, because here there is not even the one that is awkward from the distribution channels or from the agricultural production, from the branch production, from the fishing, etcetera. Therefore, it is much more than these thirty-five kilos per inhabitant, for year, that in Catalonia we are feeding, every year. Therefore, food misconception, a phenomenon that is normal for everyone and everyone for the contrast in the increase, in these last years especially, of citizenry that sees the poor food. But we're not staying here, please. Unburdening is a much more important issue than just this element, very shocking, very striking and ethical, of a society that wants and badly eats. Food mismanagement is a subject to be dealt with not only from the point of view of social justice, but especially from a more systemic, more ethical point of view, rather than applying all those formulas and measures that are necessary to reintroduce into the consumption cycle the products that can be taken advantage of as food and to prevent them from being what they can only become, which is a residue. They're meant to be left when they can actually still be profitable products. Therefore, it is not only an element of social justice. It is an element of efficiency, both economic and economic, and of the repositioning of the same system. For us, the main objective of a law like we do between all and all is to reduce malice, reduce excess. We are not only urged by our political ideals, but also by the FAO, the UN and the European Parliament, as for example in the resolution of 2012, which before 2025 calls on all European countries to reduce this surplus or food mismanagement to half. So, as I said, it's a plant that we have to do for the sake of economic efficiency. Because the environmental effects of mismanagement are clear in reducing available fertile land, in loss of biological diversity, in, too, drinking water and energy losses and in contributing to the emission of winter-effect gases. And all that, all that is less visible, we don't have to lose sight of it. In Catalonia, 262,000_tones of scalable waste, according to data from the Agency of Residus de Catalunya. This means 234,000 hectares of production alone, equivalent; this means 20 per cent of the useful agricultural area of Catalonia destined for products that are not used and that are misguided. This is an untenable ecological scourge for a country like Catalonia, at least in our own country. That's what we have to deal with, in this law. We also have to deal with economic efficiency. Because the loss of food weakens the economy as a whole. It does less competitively the same companies, which give per fact and per assumed, and normally, that they lose a part of their products; it faces the expense of the lllars, and it forces the public authorities to allocate very important resources to manage surpluses as residues, when in reality they are still profitable products. It is estimated in Catalonia that by avoiding food miscarriage we could save an expenditure of EUR 841 million. Mirin, fix it: everything that had to be increased in the assumption of the Government of Catalonia for this year. Eight-cents_forty-one-million euros that we launder with malaise food. And, obviously, we also have to deal with it from the standpoint of social justice. Because the right to food is a universal, human, and therefore binding right for all public administrations to guarantee it. And knowing that with junk food in Catalonia, they could feed half a million people, so obviously, they don't leave us alone to sleep, let's just say. No one. But this is an act in favour of social justice that we have to lay down from this law as one of the ways to act for the main object that this law must have, which is to reduce the maltreatment of food. So, yes, we agree that it's interesting that we can do this law, we agree that we need to solve this phenomenon, we have all these mandates that I gave them. And we also have a warrant from the same city, which has self-organized. Civil society already makes initiatives to reduce food mismanagement; businesses also make practical vouchers in some cases, and especially local administrations make very practical vouchers, in many cases. There are already food-profit platforms, such as today's accompanying us in this Ple; there are already actions of supralocal administrations, such as Barcelona Metropolitan Area, which are coordinated by concrete, evaluable objectives..., to reduce the organic fraction in a mandate by 2_percent; there are already concrete search studies..., which are fan, and, moreover, which have public funding; there are already concrete experiences in schoolmen, municipal markets, trades, restoration companies; there is a collection of particular foods; there is already, for example, the experience of my region, the West Valley, in the restoration of the city, in the restoration of the city, in a carcase of the map that exists and remains in the web; there is, for example, the experience of my region, the West Valley, in the restoration of the city, in the restoration of the city, in the way that there is the experience of the city, in the past, in the past. Therefore, altruism already exists, and self-organizes. The law doesn't have to be used to make more selfless. The law has to be used to go further, the law has to be used to promote actions of this type, such as the proposal of the socialists, of sensitisation, of search, of incentives of good practices, to regulate them..., elements, in some cases, that do not appear at all to the law and that surely in the debate we can add, of plantations and aspects of food security and of how the same regulation exists is enough or not for the practices that we could make of food profit, of legal security for existing experiences, of avoiding bad practices... And, obviously, the law has to be used to go further. I, therefore, yes, to force. To force certain sectors to a certain extent. To force through penalties or through incentives of good practices of reduction. To also force the transparency of all folds in the data of food abuse, because we can also be aware of what it is that there is because there can be research, but obviously because there can be awareness and information of the citizenry. The PSC's proposal seems to me to be a good basis for working on all this. We are willing to improve and complement it, and to add a little more courage to this good will that exists in the Socialist proposal because we are not only going to a social benefit of food charity, but we are going to the main objective that we have in terms of the mandate, which is to reduce, to the extent of the whole food cycle, from the camp to the table of the consumer, food mismanagement. Therefore, in this sense for us it will be fundamental – and with this I finish – to act in the two main spheres: to recover the value of the food, to know the economic, social and environmental import involved in obtaining a food, and to realize that the food remains are a resource, thus captivating the unique consideration that has been made so far of these food remains as an organic residue, that the only one that can be managed is to reside and bring it to the subscriber. Therefore, regain value, realize that this is a resort, reduce. And, obviously, a friend of all folds, we can also do social work. But the point, let's not forget, is to end this barbarity that as a society we have assumed as normal, that it is food miscarriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.180.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Ribas. Next, the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.181.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable Counselor... in the first place I want to sincerely thank the Socialist Group and Raúl Moreno for carrying this bill. It's a theme that someone might look like accessories, it might look like a secondary theme. And it's not at all. And it's not because of the theme that it touches and it's not because it also touches quite substantial keys to the product model, the social model, the economic model, a model that obviously has inefficiencies. Now, I want to remind you that the model we have today, the problem you have, is that it creates excesses. Some deuran say: "Ara et will speak of Venice. No, I never talk about Venice, because it speaks for itself. But... [[Widow's remorse.]] No, no, But for a lot of seconds– for a lot of seconds– we've had a lack of food – a lack of food. I, for one, man! The model doesn't work at all badly. Now, it does raise some ethical reptes, some technical reptes, very important. At the forefront of modern politics, of modern political history, there was the trident of the French Revolution of freedom, equality and fraternity. During the centuries, we say that two of these concepts have developed ideologically, especially: freedom, which has assumed as the flag the centerright, and equality, which has assumed the left. And it didn't come out as a summary of this liberal right-wing social state that we have, which works pretty well. But there's a short pot left – a short pot –, and it seems to me that this is also going to cover a little, like other questions, this short pot that we've had until now, and it's this third point of the trident, which is fraternity. Beyond the logic of strict interest, beyond the strict logic of justice, too. Some say: "This is not exactly social justice. No, actually. It's not social justice, that. And, therefore, we must start with social justice. But, well, as long as it doesn't go at all, or it doesn't always go all the way up, there's another point of this trident that maybe we can develop. And to me it seems, this principle, that of fraternity, that begins to find, these past years, a itinerary, or an institutional and structural expression. It has done so mainly through the third sector, today represented here. And I want to give thanks, and greet, the entities that are here for what they are doing, and for the studies they have done, and because, as the socialist deputy said, they have gone, as always, before the political power, they have been first, they have advanced us, and this... the intellectual pairs are they, right? So this third sector, somehow, what it does is crystallize this third political principle. This sector of freedom and private initiative, because it is not a sector that comes from public education, but at the same time it has justice and equality as it has ended. And from consciousness – because, if not, I don't explain why it's done – from fraternity. Therefore, let's celebrate that this law contributes to creating a bitter institutional framework of the principles of solidarity, and of the principles, also, ecological. And we buy this ecological principle. Of course! If they've all become conservatives and counter-revolutionaries! Listen to me: what is ecology if not the great defense of the status quo? Yes or no? Do you agree? Conservationism. Actually, we're more out there, that's to say, sometimes it doesn't feel right, because those that are defined as conservatives aren't environmentalists. So listen'm: Ecology is, in the end and in the end, pure and hard conservationism. But it's important, and that's about empowering him and protecting the environment better, isn't it? I'd like to make some nuanced text. I won't be as hard as the deputy of Ciutadans, but a few nuances. Because I like the text. I think you can work from the text. All the Members have said that we can have a very interesting debate... above all, we need to listen, we need to learn from the entities, from the people who know. But I have a few shades. In the first place, it seems to me – man, coming from the socialists – an excessively interventionist law. Listen to me, the principle of good governance is: a _marc of direction, action, a clear, simple _marc, and then leave to the executing power that develops it. Because this also gives you an institutional framework, in the end, more stable, that does not depend on each government. If we want to regulate what the entity can do until the last comma or what the supermarkets must do until the last comma, this leaves little room for the action of the executed power. There's another question I haven't just seen, and it's... to see what I'd say. I don't know if they have to agree with me, but we do create a kind of seasonal democracy, or foral, in which in every new law we believe we shield a kind of institution or a branch that relies on that law; a stage, a branch, that relies on that law, that has special rights, that... Listen to me, it seems to me that what the laws have to do is empower the actions, give the mark of action, but do not begin to create privileges of some over others. Therefore, what we need to do is to promote the performance of entities, to put ourselves in the service of entities. Now, don't start creating us right from our agents. After that, we have to keep in mind the complexity of the theme. Clearly, one can say: "Every year is seven hundred tones full... – or, well, what's next, a 7_percent of the tones that follow –" and, therefore, this could serve to feed so many people. Home, that's it and it's not exactly it. Things are a little more complicated, as you may understand. I mean, if there's an excess, it's because there's a demand for production, and that demand has a certain surplus. And if we load the production system, in the end, well, that can have negative consequences. And we also need to be careful not to put so many conditions on the operators. It is to say: "You will have to do this, that, that, and the supermarkets, that, and the little ones filled, that, that, and so on..., that, in the end, this law ended up causing more harm in this sense of fighting against the poor than it wanted to repair. That's to say, if they end up closing the shops and closing the supermarkets because they have to do a lot of things, then, of course, we'll finally have to give solidarity to more people. We have to keep in mind, too, that logistics and... or else, that the key point is logistics and distribution, and the people who have been to the mayors know that, don't they? I mean, sometimes you have leftovers, you have leftovers that you'd like to distribute, but how do you do to distribute them? I mean, here's where logistics fails, where logistics fails, where distribution fails. But in any case, these are subtle words expressed a little now, but in the background it is a very timely law, with some data that support it and are absolutely eloquent. You can't make a simplistic correlation, can you? But, of course, 7_percent of Catalan food is bad, which can give food to half a million people is that to an impact. I mean, it's these TV pictures, right? That sometimes we see the trucks pulling out the fruit they produce, and always, so, they cause an impact. And that's gonna fill in for this situation. And it's a great opportunity to give a leap forward, as you said, to fight the poor, to have a society with a more sustainable and fairer environment. And so, we, like the People's Party, are here with the will and above all the willingness to learn, that is to say, we don't know enough and, therefore, what we want is to listen to entities, businesses, universities, make ourselves available to what they have been working on this issue for so many years and, therefore, to make a balanced and useful law that is really useful for what we give to the principle, to make it more effective and to institutionalize the principle of fraternity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.182.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Next, has the word "Mrs. Gabriela Serra", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.183.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President, thank you. Well, so we're also pleased that this one comes to Parliament and can be discussed – you've made a good presentation, Raúl, we appreciate it. Why? Because, in fact, the fact that between 30 and 50 percent of the world's food is bad is not just a social and ecological scandal, it's a crime, a political crime, too, isn't it? Why? Because this fact, together with hunger and malnutrition, is the most tangible proof of what we have not yet mentioned, and it is the round and spherical failure of the world agri-food system. And maybe that's what we're missing from the proposal, from the set of law you're asking for, and it's that we're finding that you're putting in a law we're going to have to discuss, that we're going in, because we're going to have to discuss it, but that only addresses a part of the problem when you're talking about the concept of abuse, isn't it? What do I mean by that? I mean, I think we're starting right when we say that it's because of poor food" the action of disposing of nutrients for human consumption, and still have value as a nutrient resource. So far we'd agree, but the second paragraph is when we start having some kind of doubt, huh? , when you say – or a disagreement – that ‘the food leftovers of prepared or cooked food, the food in good packing or not that man can find in the circuits of selective collection of the organic fraction of municipal residues and the collection of the fraction or rest that generate the lars, restoration and distribution in detail. It is to say that, of these 750,000_tones that we calculate we have of malaise in Catalonia, the law only wants to take the work with 260,000_tones. And we think it's a reductionism that has various effects. First of all, because if we look at the problem of malaise – I should have trained myself to say malaise, malaise; count'mdo_secons – just focusing it on the point of view where it is provided, then we find that the major device of this malaise is the llars, when we understand that llars is a very small part and is the trunk of the smaller food chain and the one that has less guilt between all this process of malaise of food. Why? Because we believe that, in any case, the solution must be sought at the initial stages, not at the final stages, at the initial stages of the process, that, more than being more realistic, it has two advantages: of a band, that the production and transformation phase, before the distribution is initiated, the foods are more agglutinating and, therefore, the measures can be more economical and more effective in order to undertake them. If we wait after the post-distribution phase to deal with the problem of rebuig the efforts are diluted further. And on the other hand, if we calculate that not only on the basis of the volume of unhealthy foods but also taking into account the materials and energy applied to the food chain, we would see that acting in the initial stages is much more stable and therefore we have a much clearer recourse than between the final process. Therefore, begin with the malaise that is generated in production, and clarify which are the mechanisms that determine what, how and when it is produced and, therefore, which are the mechanisms that generate this excess food. Why? Because the current food model is characteristic for the industrialisation of agriculture, monoculture or little diversified production, animal estabulation, long distance transport, public subsidies and commercial control through global markets dominated by a few multinationals. A model that, moreover, has been accused of recovering in a strong reversal of public assumptions and that combines the deregulation of markets and their lack of protection before the global market with an incentive to individual production increases that move non-subsidized producers. We could say that the product system we have is a structural problem in itself. We regularly check, moreover, how this combination of deregulation and promotion of individual production increments brings the pages – he said before very graphically in Fernando – to give away the fruit or to fill the door that comes out. I wouldn't want to, but I would like to bring to school the great mobilizations that have been made at the level of the Spanish State by the COAG and at the level of Catalonia by the Union of Pages, precisely claiming the regulation of the market in order not to do this, both with light and with fruity sweetness. Why? Because these camperols, these pages are asking you to decide what, when, and how to produce as a function of maintaining a life worthy of small producers, regulating markets and recovering sovereignty, since we are talking about so many sobrieties at this time, therefore, a sovereignty over the food that today holds secrets, not any, but multinationals and food distributions fruit of neo-liberal galloping and well-established policies. And why? Because up to one-third of the funds of the operating programmes with which Europe subsidizes the organizations of fruit and vegetables producers is dedicated to withdrawing quantities from the market of their production in order to avoid a fall in prices. Before, when the company of Catalonia Yes, it is possible to say that we are urged by the European Union, we are urged by the FAO..., does not urge us, because we have, precisely, the great euphemism that "remove is to be understood as the destruction from the hills before ripening, his simply abandoned in the camp. And that's with an aggravant, with a clear-cut aggravation, and it's a flagrant contradiction if we take into account that based on its productive policies, the European Union can end up subsidizing the destruction of food from which it has previously subsidized production. So the problem isn't just the drive, it's not just the restoration, it's not just... it's much bigger, it's structural. For another band, the large distribution chains and supermarkets have become the trunk of the chain that controls the entire agri-food process. Currently, in the Spanish State, four of every five food purchases are made in supermarkets, and the number of chains is, more than that, smaller: five. Five large companies control 55_percent of food sales in the Spanish State. And one_of_each_four foods purchased was made in one_only chain: Carrefour. Let's talk about the malaise of food that is not the fruit of which it is llença, but the fruit of which you don't even get on the market, of which you don't even get on the market, of which you don't even get on the market, right? And what are the mechanisms for which supermarkets make it necessary to generate these surplus products that will remain completely out of the markets? So, the requirements on the quality of the product. When we talk about quality, we don't talk about the nourishing effects of these foods, we don't talk about the taste of these foods; we talk about the fact that they're mace, that they're easy to peel, that they don't have any thens, that they meet some aesthetic standards that the market requires, and, therefore, they overvalue organic contamination and minimize chemical contamination. Why? Because all these requirements are now standardizing a type of production that forces the farmer to apply a technological package that uses contaminants and, ultimately, impairs the nutrient capacity of food. Notwithstanding these standards, a substantial part of production does not go up to meeting the quality requirements imposed on distributors and, therefore, are foods that are relegated and out of their use and profit. On the other hand, the ability of large distributors of agri-food chains is not only to impose standards of quality and control that break down a large number of tones of food, but also to act as a judge, which has another great perversion; and that is why, as a judge and party, you can load your inability to manage or your own inability to plan properly. What do I mean by that? I mean that, for example, if the demand for the volume initially requested from a producer, at a certain point the deputy manager thinks that it is above his ability to sell or are more stringent with control, they simply allow and reject these surpluses produced for the camperols, pre-granted. Few providers will report these practices, as market control is deep and great. And this power generated by the large retail distributors has already been retired; it has been kept at our home..., in the Spanish State, I forgive, in the Spanish State, precisely, with an important 2009 study of the Basque Court of Defense of Competition, which reports to the Basque Government and which runs a report of almost three hundred pages denouncing that three chains of supermarkets, Eroski, Carrefour and Mercadona, operate as monopolies in the Spanish State and that this allows them to demand from their suppliers to pay less and condition absolutely disproportionate. For another band, this agri-food model that we have does not only remain food, it does not only prevent and lose human efforts, the effort of the land and the raw materials, but it has strong environmental impacts: it pollutes the aquifers for the use of chemical products, bad water, bad energy... We have to take into account, when a sense of these concretions, it spreads, eh? , it is estimated that this intensive monoculture agriculture uses between six and seven times more energy per food unit than the more traditional camperols and the more traditional type of production can do. Not only that, but we find that a large part of these foods are also being wasted in their process of transport and food processing. Why? Because this market is absolutely based on the productivity and the great wealth of the big multinationals of food, they move the food to many kilometers, to very many distances, and that makes the losses in transport tremendously great. Not only that, but also in food processing processes. I'm done. No, no... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, 'cause I see I'm running out of time. To conclude, simply say an idea that is basic: we cannot fight the poor with the remains of food. No, she's lying, that, we can never fight the poor. The poor and, therefore, the desire, the lack of good nutrition, we will fight it with other measures; we will fight them thinking of a basic income, we will suspend it thinking of having food bags, we will overcome it that all those people who today go through a delicate situation, a situation of poor, a situation of lack can maintain their dignity before buying those foods that they think fit where they think it is appropriate and eat them on the conditions that they think most acceptable. We need to change the agricultural production model of this country and we hope that, on the way to the republic, this law that you plant, we can work well and follow a step until we can modify our production system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.184.0	Thank you, Mrs Serra. Next, has the word Ms. Anna Figueras, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, I'm sorry, yes, yes. I'm sorry, you have the word Mrs. Dolors Rovirola.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.185.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Mr. Antoni Díaz, Director General of Food, Quality and Food Industries, members of the platform and directors who followed us from the public, good late everyone. To begin my intervention, I would like to recall some facts that FAO obtained in a world-wide study between 2010 and 2011, which called for a lot of attention to be more of an astounding and shocking. According to this study, every year, 1.300_million_tonnes of eating, or so, one_third of the world production is lost or is awkward. This fact has social and also environmental consequences, and, more importantly, scandal that while this happens a good part of the world's population wins. Europe ranks 89_million_of_tones per year, equivalent to 179 kilos per person/ year. And in Catalonia, what happens in Catalonia? Seconds have said here before too, to Catalonia mistreat thirty-five kilos person/ year. And how do we do it, the Catalans? So, almost 60_percent of the same Catalan llars, 16_percent of the supermarkets, 12_percent of the restoration, and others. This diagnosis at this time gave place to the publication of a guide published by the Government of the Generality that is said to be a more responsible consumption of food. These overall losses can be the consequence of many and various shortcomings, but the main one we consider is the lack of consciousness. The food is lenght because it is not long because it falls, because the fruits and vegetables are discarded for aesthetic reasons, because it is poorly planned purchases, do not take advantage of the remains as they do before our seas or our ancestors. Therefore, every one of us is very responsible for this malaise, and we must seek solutions for its benefit. Our group, from Juntes per el Si, has already put forward proposals to the Social Emergencies and Economic Revitalization Monograph, and the Government is already working on the measures that were approved in Resolution 17/XI, and we believe that the first action to be taken is to prevent it. And the text of the law presented to us today by the Socialist Party speaks a lot of rights and rights of consumers, restorers, large surfaces, etc., but it does not speak of preventive measures. We think that this is a priority, and, more importantly, we also give priority to the whole food chain from production – or the primary sector – to the final consumer. And we also give priority to promoting the use of food surpluses in all the trunks of the food chain. In fact, the government, as I said before, has been working for a long time to prevent malaise and reduce the disadvantage of eating. July 2012 was the table of food surpluses to improve and enhance food distribution services with the main entities that manage food banks and other food agents in the world. And this gives results; this has already been seen to give results with an increase in donations of food from the trade to the food banks that otherwise would have been messed up or launched; it is the same. In addition, other measures at the productivity level are required to avoid excess production. Therefore, this law should also take into account two factors: first, social, how to take advantage of the surplus; second, environmental, how to reduce the impact of residues generated by food. For our government, therefore, it is a strategic priority for its social, economic and environmental relevancy. In these moments also the work commission for the non-malcaratation of food..., the only interdepartmental work in which five departments of the Government of the Generality, led by the Department of Agriculture together with the Directorate General of Food, the Directorate General of Agriculture and Ramaderia, the Agency of Public Health, the Agency of Residues of Catalonia, the Department of Treball, the Department of Social Affairs and Families, and the Catalan Agency of Consum, are involved. This committee has already held a meeting on June 15th and the following day, July 15th, will be in second place. Let us therefore speak of this proposal for a law proposed to us by the Socialist Party, a law which we find to be a declaration full of good intentions, as other parliamentary groups have also said, but they do not provide corrective measures; they only speak to us of rights and rights, but they do not deal with measures for the sake of the question, as they do: how will they fight to deal with the evil side of rights and rights? , where are the measures, for example, to take for whom do you do it wrong? Together we will work on the yes, to introduce them to the law, together with the sector, to improve it and to situate Catalonia as the European Union's leading region in the fight against food mismanagement, taking into account the work that is also being done at European level on this issue. The law proposed today by the Socialist Party does not oblige food chain agents to introduce self-control measures to prevent abuse or ensure the profit of surpluses. It does not establish a system of control of the law's compliment, nor does it establish an incentive to reduce maltreatment; it does not include all actors in the food chain; it does not impose any coercive measures on the unwarranted food. The priority lines that will guide our ideas and contributions will be, first, proactively prevent food mismanagement across the entire food chain, and, second, the promotion of the profit of food surpluses to all the trunks of the chain. And how do we do that? We will take into account the results of the work being done at European level on the subject of introducing measures against maltreatment into the CAP and the EIP agendas, without assuming any cost to the pages, conscious of the importance of not lynching food, and the value of biomass or pine products. And we will do so with the participation of all actors in the food chain and also with all political actors to – it is our wish – reach a consensus text of this law for everyone. Thank you, president, deputies, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.186.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rovirola. The debate is over, and as there are no totalities, this initiative can continue its processing. [[Raúl Moreno Montaña asks to speak.]] Mr. Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.187.0	President, I would ask you for thirty-seconds of allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.188.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.189.0	Thank you, President. In general, thanking all the interventions, because it goes in line with what we want, and it is opening the debate, a debate that we think needs to be done, and, therefore, positions, most of them all, I assume that they will be acceptable. Two things, only. The deputy of Ciutadans Noemi de la Calle, who said that solidarity cannot be demanded. Our tax system, our tax system is a solidarity system, and therefore it can be demanded. And two things. We base the exhibition share of this law and part of the content on almost the only report there is of the Catalan food agency and also of the Catalan Agency of Residus. Therefore, we base the laws on existing reports, not on what seems to us to be possible – therefore, it is normal – and also the manifesto, certainly, of the platform« We take advantage of the food. I'll finish something else. Some of the Members are talking about how we're going to make this happen. We'll talk about it. But this law doesn't need a sanctioning spirit; this law doesn't need to be aware of the society's joint venture that abuse is a problem. We're not going to end this with a lot, we're not going to end this with a lot. We don't have any sanctioning rules on this law. And, therefore, as I said before, in the presentation, it is a law that will benefit us all, that goes against no one, and therefore everyone can be..., all the members, all the people who are part of the food chain can be reassured, that, with consensus and collaboration, we find the mechanisms to make the malaise of food a fact of history in this country. Thank you. [[Naomi from Sifré Street asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.190.0	Miss De la Calle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.191.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.192.0	It's over, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.193.0	Yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.194.0	Now it's not going back to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.195.0	No, no, [[Pause.]] Mr Raúl Moreno, I think you confuse solidarity and equality. Solidarity is not required; equality, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-13-2001.196.0	As I said, this initiative, since there are no totality items, will continue its processing. Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine.
