ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.1.0	Let's resume the session. [[General debate on the social emergency situation, economic recovery, public management and the need for an institutional response (continuation)]] [[255-00001/11]] In accordance with Rule 152.3 of the Rules of Procedure, for the defence of the motions for resolutions put forward, Mrs Naomi de la Calle, of the Ciutadans Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.2.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, entities who are accompanying us today, in the general debate on the increase of poverty and inequalities, which took place in this Parliament in March 2014, my colleagues commented from this very attrition that the goal of a full anti-poverty must never again be to celebrate a full anti-poverty. Well, then, we're in March 2016 and we're here to talk not about increasing poverty anymore, but directly from a social emergency. By March 2018, will we continue in the same, unsolved, but continuing to feed independence fiction? Lords of the process, of the democratic mandate, social majority, to end social exclusion, we are in a hurry and I am convinced that for this purpose broad consensus can be achieved and the vast majority of Catalan society can be united. One example of this is the agreements and transactions with different formations that we have been able to reach in this plenary, although due to the bulk vote on the proposals on some occasions we will have to abstain, because although we agree on some points on others we differ. [[Widow's remorse.]] However, the result cannot be left in a declaration of intent without further travel. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] This plenary session should not be a final point...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.3.0	You're gonna have to keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.4.0	...but the starting point. Now, talking about social emergency is as if we are dealing with an event, or an accident that has happened to us, but we are not facing a timely and unpredictable cataclysm, we are not talking about dealing with those affected by Hurricane Katrina. The question is that we have a dysfunctional social structure, the problem to solve, when we talk about poverty, is the increasingly persistent social exclusion of one-third of the population. Spain is the OECD country where inequalities have increased the most in recent times, but this trend comes from before the crisis. The origin of inequality, both in Catalonia and in the rest of Spain, is not merely short-term. Both in the good times and in the crisis, lower incomes suffered proportionally more when things went wrong and earned less when they went well. I suppose many of the honourable Members will remember the significance of being a milleurist in the bubble times. In order to reduce poverty, the economy needs to be revived, but the situation is not reduced to a few points of GDP, we cannot return to the growth model of fifteen years ago. Structural reforms must be made in our labour market, which is extremely unfair, with aberrant unemployment rates, disproportionate time and very precarious employment. We all remember the cuts of Convergence governments, which since 2010 have reduced the welfare, education and health games by 16_per_cent and we have no doubt that these games must be priority, more in times of crisis and that is why from Citizens we think of other games where to pass the scissors before cutting in the welfare state. But apart from providing the necessary resources, we must also make reforms in our welfare state so that it is geared towards helping those who need it most; that is, we need more resources, more budgetary allocations, but we cannot stay here, we must make profound reforms in the economic model, in employment policies and in redistributive policies in order to achieve a more just and less unequal society. In short, the priorities of the legislature have to be focused on three different but closely interrelated axes. The first axis is to foster knowledge-based economic growth that will enable us to compete in the global economy and generate quality growth. This is one of the great challenges facing our society, it is one of Zapatero's unfulfilled promises, which ultimately perpetuates the productive model that led us to the crisis and in which we are still immersed. We need governments that really prioritize it, because it is not a challenge that is addressed in a couple of afternoons. It requires working on multiple aspects: ending the capitalism of friends, corruption, attracting investment and talent, encouraging technology transfer or preparing our young people to compete in the global knowledge economy, to mention some of the reforms that need to be addressed. Let's go to the second axis. Obviously, such economic growth is closely linked to the priority development of employment and training policies, but these policies affect not only stronger economic consolidation, but above all social integration. Effective employment and training actions are key to a stronger economy and to overcoming the social drama of exclusion from the labour market. Employment promotion policies will only fulfil their functions if they are subject to intense change. The exit from the crisis is being very unevenly noted among the unemployed population. The very long-term unemployed group is very broad, it is a group of vulnerable people, which almost triples that at the beginning of the recession, to integrate this group into the labour market must become the primary objective of employment policies. In this regard, we believe that a comprehensive review of the current SOC, which transcends this debate and should be one of the priority reforms for this legislature, is essential and urgent if the political forces supporting the Government do not focus their efforts on the fiction of the process. In our proposals, focused on the social emergency, we have put forward a series of measures for the most vulnerable groups, such as young people, the long-term unemployed, those over the age of forty-five and those with functional diversity. And last but not least, we need to rationalize the administration and equip our welfare state with real redistributive tools. We have a social security system that perpetuates the dysfunctional nature of the dual labour market, benefits those who enjoy an indefinite contract, in the face of precarious, temporary and unemployed. It is linked to the worker's previous contributions, so it is not really geared to redistributing income and combating poverty. For this reason, talking about social emergency is a mistake in analysis, it is not something short-term, it is structural, what happens is that it is recorded by a long recession. It is not, therefore, a question of putting temporary patches, but of having real effective redistributive structures to ensure that nobody stays in the gutter; structures, by the way, far more beneficial and urgent for Catalans than those d'Estat structures that some people are talking about. In this sense, from Citizens we have long proposed a guaranteed annual wage supplement, which, in other words, is a negative income tax: it is a tool that has been much studied in the countries in which it has been implemented, such as Sweden, the United Kingdom and recently, in France, and which has proved to be a truly effective mechanism to combat the poverty of those people who, despite working, still do not meet their basic needs. This complement is highly redistributive, stimulates work and fights the submerged economy. However, in order to cater for those households with no income, we propose that the implementation of a guaranteed income linked to socio-occupational integration programmes be accelerated. But from Citizens we don't stay here, we also think it is a priority to combat child poverty, it seems to us unjustifiable that in children's and family policies in Catalonia the equivalent of 0.9 of GDP is currently allocated, the Spanish average being 1.4 and that of the European Union a 2.2. Child poverty compromises equal opportunities for life, not only has consequences for health, but also for the high rates of abandonment that we suffer particularly in Catalonia. And, as we have already commented, low training has a strong link with low labour expectations and the economy of a country in general. Therefore, we also propose to update and provide greater budgetary resources for the programme to combat school drop-out, as well as to allocate sufficient resources to increase the number of subsidized public places from zero to three years in children's schools, covering all social demand. Studies insist that early childhood education is the best investment to improve equality of opportunity in the long term, it is the best social lift, in addition to facilitating the reconciliation of work and family life, not to mention that the increase in birth rate will help pay tomorrow's pensions. Nor have we wanted to forget the homeless, the most brutal form of poverty in cities, the management of energy poverty funds, or the problems of access to and conservation of housing. There are many challenges ahead. Finally, from Citizens we want to combat the policy of cuts led by Convergence, the soul mater of the current government of Junts pel Si. The cuts in health, education, dependency, well-being are undoubtedly a very important factor in the growth of inequality. In this respect, we have put forward a number of proposals to reverse the scale of the infringement of citizens' rights. It is clear that these are all very ambitious objectives, which go beyond a mere debate of poverty or social emergency, which we are occasionally bringing to this Parliament to cover social demand. These should be the basic points of an investiture debate, the objectives of a legislature, parliamentary work and budgetary priorities. It serves, however, to remind the political forces supporting the Government that as long as they waste time with the sterile fiction of the process, reality, the stubborn reality that most Catalans have to face remains out there. Do not have any doubt that, when governing this opposition that leads Citizens, these issues will be the priorities of the political agenda. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.5.0	The words of Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.6.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members of Parliament, greet, first of all, the entities that accompany us today. Before presenting some of the most outstanding motions for resolutions tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I would like to comment on the development of the plenary and some of the proposals that each of the political groups has put forward. During yesterday's debate, he referred to the plenary two years ago. The Socialists already described him as a failure, the entities as insufficient and of little use and, finally, the Vice-President of the Government, yesterday, Mrs. Munté, explained to us that they were not satisfied with the results. You see some of the proposals put forward for the group that supports the government, Junts per el Si, we risk, if the result of the votes does not correct, to have a certain already seen. We have found that the government does not have a plan for Catalans, beyond the trip to Ithaca. For another band, it's not new, according to you, only with independence will we reduce the waiting lists in sanitized, we will withdraw the coveting, the cell will open, the sun will come out and all will be happier and richer. Meanwhile, there is no concrete measure for those who are going through worse. The only full route you have is that of independence, it seems every time more clear, that the route you propose for the country, you can see with the route that your citizens have to make in order not to fall into inequality, if they have not yet done so. You create uncertainty for Catalans and Catalans, because they don't even make sure they complement what they've bought. They have proved to be incapable of fighting the poor in Catalonia. They have no plan for Catalans and Catalans and they have decided to play a hot card, to the assumptions, that they do not know if they will approve, when, how, nor with whom; they only know the tracks, few inputs, certainly, that left us a glimpse yesterday of Vice President Oriol Junqueras: uncertainty, incapacity, instability. The president of our group, in Miquel Iceta, explained yesterday in this same Faristol the will of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to reach agreements. They will see it, too, in our positions, in many of the proposals. Willingness of dialogue, agreement and pact, so they conceived this plenary, when they planted it with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and we have kept that spirit. It is for this reason, bearing in mind the lack of scope on the part of the Government, that from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we propose the setting up of a platform for inclusion and social cohesion in Catalonia, with a duration of four years, which reduces the overall strategies of active inclusion, which combine measures oriented to the inclusive labour market, access to the service of the state of quality welfare and to adequate minimum entrances. Among our proposals, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will bet to guarantee the feeding grants from the children's cycle, also, up to the inclusive secondary, but also a change in the current model, in the current system, because families can know if they would benefit from a feeding grant before their child enters school; a thing that seems logical enough, therefore, that is not now produced, and there is no economic excuse in this case. We insist, in a joint resolution proposal with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, to make the minimum income of insertion become a subjective right. It should never have produced the 2011 reform that they agreed between the People's Party and Convergence and Union. It is necessary to rectify, and we celebrate it if it is so, as well as the fact of putting on the table the need to study a benefit for the children who put them in the center of our social protection policies. We reinforce the idea of the need for a guaranteed income of citizenship, both because of its content and because of the fact that we have to walk towards the guarantee of returns as a mechanism of struggle against the poor. We found, in this sense, proposals by Junts for the Yes. We expect, for another group, the maximum level of recovery in other measures proposed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in relation to the need for recovery of active employment policies for young people, for seniors of forty-five years and long-term unemployed, the return of young people from economic exile, the guarantee of a public health system, a genuine policy of taking advantage of food surpluses, the need to fight against tax fraud, an economy capable of generating inputs that mediate the dialogue with the State, the need for recovery of the scale of barriers to fight against the inequalities based on the postal code, ensuring access to public services in the territory, especially in the least populated municipalities. The Socialists and the Socialists consider it appropriate to incorporate social clauses into public contracts, as well as the impetus of a national pact for industry, for which more than EUR 200 million can be allocated for industrial policies. With regard to housing emergence, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the Socialist Party to present a proposal for a joint resolution calling for the development of the Law 24/2015, and in a special way those articles that refer to situations of over-indebtedness, of compulsory cessation of housing on the part of large estates and banks..., which are empty, and avoid denunciations. It is a matter of avoiding what has happened over the past few years: that while in this country forty-four families are denaved the day, the government was neither there nor expected. Also to set aside a real source of energy sufficiency and to decree the non-tall of sub-administration for lack of payment, with a report of social services. Today, still, today, they cut out sub-administrations for lack of payment. Now, the party that brings the government back has lost the opportunity to make specific proposals on some issues that we consider to be of the highest priority. It is for this reason that we are asking all the political forces of this Parliament to gather together to put an end to the order of shame. With regard to the confiscation order, which leaves hundreds of people with disabilities with less than one hundred euros..., butxaca money. They're reality that they exist and that they hurt people of truth, some of whom accompany us this late. He passed them to the people of Mifas, to Girona; he transferred the Dincat to us; he passed them to the people of the Residence of Great Physical Disabilities Sant Salvador, to Tarragona. If we fill our mouths with social justice, we cannot allow situations like these, which condemn the poor chronic and exclude people who are more likely to live with a disability. We have every opportunity to repeal the co-sponsorship... that the PSC and Catalonia Yes, it is I can propose as one of our resolution proposals. This is perhaps one of the most graphic examples of what happens in Catalonia and how the worst pay for the consequences of a crisis and poor political management, and even when we have indicators that indicate that the economy is recovering. Socialists are very interested in Catalonia. But we are more interested in Catalans and Catalans, citizens and citizens who today look at us, many of them, expecting their political representatives to solve their concrete problems. And what is the answer to who is responsible for managing Parliament's mandate? Let's hope that it's still my job to keep my sister's will on a board of a follow-up committee to take control of what we're up to here. So we'll get rid of episodes like the adoption of laws, agreements, proposals for resolutions, without implementing, without developing, without bringing to term, without economic recording. We avoid each other amongst all the more mulled paper. Ladies and gentlemen, prevent this House from ending as the previous one is in the hands of all folds, but fundamentally of those who have responsibilities for government. They owe it to those who still suffer, hundreds of thousands of citizens and citizens. And we have to do it by responsibility, by co-responsibility, but above all, we have to do it by justice, by social justice. The president, on the day of his investiture, quoted Zygmunt Bauman, well quoted, for sure, who has a phrase that says: "The quality of a society is measured by the quality of life of its weaker classes. We therefore need a quality Catalan society in which no one is left. And that's what we're committing ourselves to from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and that's why we're asking the pool of political forces to accompany us, now, on our full social path. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.7.0	Then there's the word "Jessica Albiach" from Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.8.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone, and especially to the entities that accompany us. Today we have the opportunity to go out the door of Parliament, to go home, relatively satisfied to have given and put solutions to injustice that suffer about 2_million people in Catalonia. People who survive and abuse; who can't sleep at nights, anxiety because they don't know if they're going to have a stopover tomorrow; people without jobs; families who can't give a carnage to their children and their daughters; young people, the best formats of all history, who are exploited to change a wage of misery, not to talk about what they have to go; women who, to be women, cover less; dependents who have to pay and pay back their cure; people who have more than forty-five years to whom they have been sentenced to live without a future. Well, today we can move from good words to good actions, and make our own demands, stand by the people and prove that a country without its people is not a country, it's a piece of land and a flag. Nothing more than that. As we explained yesterday, we know that the poor did not end up with the application of a few emergency measures. But we're also aware that the system change isn't one day for another and that our people can't wait. Those who pass cold, those who pass fam and those who suffer can't wait, and it's our responsibility to put us together today and defend them. In this line, we have put forward proposals that know that they are not easy, but they also know that they are viable and feasible. Yesterday we listened repeatedly, and on the part of different groups, to the frustration generated by the Ple of the poor. Well, with people's expectations, we don't play games, and we don't want it to happen again. Now, we also want to make it clear that, while we have come to oppose and not obstruct, a budget of EUR 270 million is insufficient. We know that Catalonia's financial situation is complicated. But we have also seen that so far there has been a lack of political will to fight against tax fraud, which annually steals from us, Catalans and Catalans, €16,000_million. And there was also a lack of political will to re-adjust a tax system that is unjust, that "cuts the middle classes, the lower classes, and that does not redistribute well enough the income and wealth of those they have most. In this House, we have prepared the following proposals: proposals to eliminate the wage gap between men and women; to increase the number of housing intended for the victims of male violence, and their children. There's waiting lists in the drop-down boxes right now. I should've thrown our face at shame. These women need protection, need a pee and need guarantees, and it is our obligation to give them -ho. As long as we like to say that infants are our future, well, now we have the opportunity to prove it. We have a 30_per_cent of children who are at risk of poverty. And that's why we want a lower benefit than a hundred euros a month. We believe that this income has to be universal, but we understand the financial situation and we understand that it has to be implemented progressively. Transport. We want to develop the transport law which we approved in the previous legislature and which includes, among other things, special rates for at-risk collectors. From Catalonia Yes, it is. We also think that no one is illegal. No one's illegal. This is why we are presenting a motion for a resolution containing different measures to facilitate conditions for obtaining and renewing residence and work permits for foreign nationals. For what he does to the young man, we insist and denounce that the agencies of occupation and the enterprises of temporary work cannot be of precariousness. And we think the path is to minimize your presence in public job offers. Another measure that we consider essential is the repeal of labour reform. Well, the repeal of labor reforms. The one from 2012, but also the one from 2010. It was the beginning of the talk of workers' and workers' rights. In this matter, we also propose local employment plans, as well as putting in place an action plan of the Catalan labour inspectorate to pursue fraud and labour abuse. The care of people without home is another of the emergencies that we have as a society. And that's why we're proposing a hundred of it, as it was already approved. There are many measures that we propose that have already been approved and that are not due in term. This is the opportunity to, in other words, complement our people. And, as has been said on repeated occasions, we also defended the repeal of the co-sponsorship order in the care of dependent persons. Pay and pay for your cure. That's right. In addition to these measures, together with the PSC we have also proposed some. Some have already commented on the company that has spoken before, and others that I will comment on now: the development of the Law of Housing Emergencies and of poor energy; the feeding scholarships, because no child is left without this help, if it is needed, and the minimum income of insertion as a right subject under the conditions of 2011. The company also commented on this: it was Convergence and Unity and the People's Party that were loaded in 2011. All right, we need to get back to minimum income. But we are clear that our goal is not this income. Our goal, now, is the guaranteed income of citizenship. While we do this way we can go applying the minimum input income. For the duration of all these measures, first of all, priority should be given to the payment of more than €70 million which the Generality has given to the joint operations of the current programme contracts. This proposal is also joint with the PSC. The gatherings are the ones who give their faces before the citizenry day by day. We have to answer that, too. It is necessary to set a level of reversal on the assumptions of the Generality and to increase it in the next eight years until it is placed in the European media. If we want to be from Europe we have to behave with Europe. But social Europe, not troika Europe. We also need to improve the entrances through a reform of the inheritance tax, of the property tax, of the tax on empty dwellings, and we also need to intensify the progression of the IRPF's autonomous tram, reducing the minimum types, which affect them, as always, less. We also want to audit the generality's debt with the aim of restructuring it. And let's look at the state government's review of the deficit targets they agreed with Brussels. Also know that we propose, together with the PSC and Citizens, that all that we approve here today continue to be followed by an evaluating committee. And we're already going to what the negotiations this morning have been like. We want to highlight, first of all, the good predisposition of Junts for the Yes, of PSC and of the CUP to approve the proposal of the feeding scholarships. We know you'll make an extra effort of 12 million euros, and we congratulate you. So, we have negotiated with Juntas per el Si to bring forward our proposal of housing and energy poverty, in which, as we have commented, we also went with the PSC. We're celebrating that this law is being developed. And just say that we'll be very careful and very careful because it's complacent. On the other hand, we also stress that, after trading with Junts for the Yes, we will be able to bring forward the proposal for a social tariff in the field of transport. We also want to point out that Esquerra has informed us that it will be on our side in the proposal to repeal the 2012 labour reform, and also the 2010 reform. That's not the PSC. We're sorry. And together we will vote in favour of a number of proposals, despite the fact that they are still stuck with the new presupposition. But there's one I want to highlight especially, and it's the proposal for complaints to the Spanish State. Here we are together, here they will find us. And another positive collaboration has been with Citizens and the PSC for the best in youth employment, in the fight against sensillarism and in the repeal of dependent co-payment. In addition, we have negotiated Junts' greeting proposal for the Yes. We mean it's a minimum agreement, we don't have enough, but it's a good step. For what it does to the PSC, comment that we have found a few points of agreement. As much as we would like to go further, we would vote affirmatively for most of the points they propose. Where we can't give them support is in the field of work, as we think we need to be more firm. From Ciutadans, we have found some interesting proposals, and we are already telling them that we will vote in favour of encouraging the occupation of people with functional diversity, better education, supporting self-government and fighting against the wage gap between men and women. Beyond that, it has been impossible; we have many differences in economics and have a recent view of the Administration that we do not share. With the CUP, we practically agree on all measures. Just say that in basic income we think that right now it's not the debate, and that's why we're abstaining. And, finally, the People's Party. I'll be very brief. MPs and MPs of the PP, we will vote against you all. The cause of the problem cannot be the solution, and with you it is not possible. That said, just add an element to it, because I don't have time. Together for the Yes, the Government, has left it all in the hands of a new premise. Ladies and gentlemen of Junts for the Yes, they ask us for support day and day as well. Let them know that if you're on the side of these two million people who are the most needy of us, they'll find us; otherwise, we won't be able to. And I take the phrase that Mr Comín said yesterday: "A country cannot be free with poor people. Well, let's hope they act accordingly. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.9.0	Next... [[Raúl Moreno Montaña asks to speak.]] Why ask me the word, Mr. Congressman?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.10.0	In contradiction, Madam President. Just clarify the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in relation to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.11.0	Excuse me. Why don't we do it at the end of the debate? Does that sound right to you? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.12.0	It's a very short acclaim, Madam President. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.13.0	Let's just leave it at the end, okay? [[Pause.]] Next is the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez of the Popular Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.14.0	Thank you, President. Madame d'Initiativa..., no, of Podemos – well..., and I speak in political terms, eh? – that the useful fools of the process vote for us all that we don't, nor do we care too much. [[Voice remorse and some applause.]] Because if you, who are the crutch of bourgeois nationalism, then... [[You laugh and you see.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.15.0	Please, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.16.0	I say at the political level...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.17.0	...quietly take it easy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.18.0	It's a political word. Let's see if you, who are those of transgression and the street, now you know... the skin so thin, by a word that is a..., huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. Exactly. Well, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we had an interesting, important debate on the issues that were dealt with, on how they were dealt with, on the specific points that were addressed and on the substantive debate that took place. And I think it is interesting, despite the fact that some people opt for the ideological closure, so that some nuclear coincidences will take place in order to address a fundamental problem such as poverty. But it has to be said, it has to be said that everything will be smoke, fireworks, fraud, if there are no budgets – if there are no budgets – you too say it, if there are no budgetary commitments. And, unfortunately, we have found that all your proposals end with a crutch that says: "And this will be budgeted when this year's budgets are presented. So, for now they're smoke, for now they're fireworks, for now it's advertising, what we're presented here. And beware of making misleading advertising with people's feelings and suffering, beware of making misleading advertising. Until now, until there are budgets, this will be advertising. Because politics, in the end, are not floral games. The policy is to put sets and numbers in sets, and cut here and expand there, and get angry with one another and congratulate one another, and translate into facts, not words, what are the priorities, what are the commitments. And, therefore, we have urgency, urgency of budgets. And you have already stolen two budgets from the Catalans in recent years. And they have once again made an exercise of political cowardice, an exercise of political fraud, because they have chosen, gentlemen of the Government, gentlemen of Convergence, gentlemen of Esquerra, gentlemen of the UPC, to govern, to make decisions, even if they are uncomfortable, even if they are difficult. But in life you have to be honest, you have to look people in the face and say: "Well, there is no money for this, or: "Yes, there is money, and: "Here we are angry with you and there, instead, we pay attention to you. But you have to be honest and you have to be brave. And yesterday we said that the story of the last five years is the story of a leak – the story of a leak – the escape of real problems, the escape of political responsibility itself. A great flight, this is what the process has been, a great flight. The outsourcing of all responsibilities to others, to Madrid, and the projection of independence utopia to cover everything, the myth. And it's interesting, because, of course, before the myth there can be no rational criticism possible. And then, with the projection of the myth, the discussion about the present is covered. It is a good strategy for you; I would actually write a book about it, because it has not gone wrong. But it's bad for Catalans. We present here a hundred measures to address the emergency situation that many people are experiencing, new measures to consolidate economic recovery. Spain – and Catalonia is part of Spain – is like a transatlantic, a great transatlantic that costs a lot to start up, a lot. We've had to reflect it and then start, the machines, walk and walk. And we've taken cruise speed, but once we've made progress, the Catalans too are unstoppable. And I hope that Catalonia and the Catalans will play a decisive role in the engine room of this transatlantic and in the control room of this transatlantic. And it would be terrible if we entered now, through bad economic policies, into a period of deceleration. At first it would be imperceptible, because also the ships cost a lot to set in motion..., I do not want to assimilate myself to Mr. Mas with the metaphors these, but the ships cost a lot to set in motion, but then they also stop slowly; but when they stop it is difficult to re-start them. And, therefore, we ask here to maintain the economic policies that have served to reflect the economy, and a series of measures such as removing obstacles, lowering taxes, supporting self-employed and small entrepreneurs, betting on innovation and the knowledge economy, helping older people aged forty-five; this has to be an obsession that we cannot relegate. And we propose to increase their social contributions by 75_per_cent. And to abandon the paternalism that is sometimes established in the new policy to truly empower the citizens, their initiative, the economic sectors. We need a market with brio, with energy, free, and we also need a powerful third sector. Because the wealth of a country is not only GDP, it is also social capital; and our main social capital is the third sector, and we have to take care of it and embrace it and promote it. And that is why we are calling for a new system of conciliation, which I know they are asking for and which you do not disagree with, I believe; therefore, let us hope that you can vote on it today. A new system of consultation that allows for stability for the entities, improves the provision of services and gives freedom and the right to decide on what we really have competence, to families, on who provides the service, on what residence I would like to go to, on the doctor I would like to attend to. Therefore, before we expand the public structure more and more, let us strengthen the third sector, which is born from below, which is born from below, and knows better than anyone what happens, what is cooked. And before strengthening the third sector we propose to shield the zero sector – the zero sector – which are the families, the Catalan families, which is the great network of solidarity and encouragement; with concrete measures, to empower them economically, because their economic health will be the one that will pull from the recovery. We ask that the child benefit be recovered, that the family minimum of the IRPF's autonomous section be increased, and that childcare leave be returned. We need an effective, fair, courageous new policy, a new policy of income – of income – guaranteed income for families without resources and an immediate reform of minimum income, which is a real and effective tool to overcome difficult situations and to reintegrate into the labour market. There are no magic wands to get out of the crisis, ladies and gentlemen, there are no magic wands. Whoever promises to storm the sky, well, then they stay to storm the Vice-President of the Government. But there are no magic wands, huh? , for the extension of well-being. We do not renounce the liberal principle that the first – the first – way to promote well-being is to recover some civic attitudes such as effort, merit, work. But it is necessary to accompany it, it is necessary to accompany it to make this liberal principle more effective, so that when someone stumbles..., and this is the key, that is, merit, work, effort, but when someone stumbles we must give him the tools so that he can get up; so that when someone falls, he does not stay forever in the gutter and can return to the system and, then, fight again through his effort and his work. And that's why we're the only ones who talk about second chance in these proposals, so that the past doesn't definitely nullify anyone's life, to free backpacks. In Barcelona there is a historical tradition of redemption, let's say, an order that was dedicated to redeeming everywhere, therefore, the past and complicated situations. So, backpack redemption, mortgage redemption to be able to re-enter the system, market, society, and pull forward. And to do what needs to be done right. This is not done legalizing occupations – especially if they are with ka – that then cause conflicts in the blocks of floors, etc.; it is not done by occupation. Here the People's Party will always be in front. You have to do the right thing. But we are the only ones who talk about second chance and those who carry a point of older people, and of older than forty-five at work. Ladies and gentlemen, the world is not the will, but the will is powerful. And, if we want, we have the capacity to tackle poverty better, and we can offer people a second chance. What is needed? – What is needed? It takes decision, energy, a lot of creativity, generosity and something as simple and as strange in Catalonia as budgets. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.19.0	Next is the words of Mrs. Anna Gabriel, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.20.0	Well, very late. After the wave of liberalism that we have just witnessed, we are just coming up with another package of very different resolutions. We said in the intervention that we did at the beginning of this plenary, we are convinced that there is no way to end the poor if it is not going to the structural reasons that the possible fan, that feed it and that, moreover, it is structured around the fact that some few viscose and take advantage of it. This merit, this work, this liberalism, it is precisely what explains, promotes and makes poor people on this planet. We say that we want to go to the arena, that we don't love each other, that we don't embarrass each other, and that we say it with the highest head, that we do, that we want to find an alternative to capitalism, that we want to reverse capitalism and that unfortunately, in a society that is theoretically modern and advanced, European, of the 21st century, we still have to claim things that are very basic, things that our Zapatista companies demand: pa, sotre and traball. We're still here. We, therefore, come up with proposals for a resolution that are a little fractious – why..., why not say so? – and of a certain impotence, because we know that, regardless of whether it comes or not, without a way out of the capitalist system it will not end with the poor. We are also in favour of repealing labour reforms. We went out to the street to criticize those pacts, we went out to the street many times to defend basic trade union rights. We plan to implement nine tax figures, which are just about to get wealth from what they have most. We are planning public regulation of the price of the soil, the front of which could be the expropiase, this imperative need that we have to set limits and redefine private property and all the guarantees that blow it up. We again give the opportunity, to those who did not do so in the 9-N declaration, to vote in favour of a motion for a resolution that the proposal is to reconsider the policies of payment of debt; with the deute, with 135 of the Constitution, and with the requirement of payment of the debt and of its interests before any other social need it is impossible to end the poor. Therefore, those who did not vote for it at the time, perhaps now, so impelled by this sensitivity to the poor, you can take a step forward and you can show that you really care that the money comes to where it is to arrive and not to the banks, that it comes to them and comes to them through the ears. We also plant the city auditorium of the debt, it's not the first time we've planted it in this room. We collect claims from third-sector entities: special concertation regime. Yes, we are talking about the basic income of the equals, because we want to include everyone absolutely. Basic public health carter, grocery, that's what we haven't talked about, I think it's enough, all of it, and also access to housing. And as we have also seen that it is very transversal and there is a very unanimous feeling that we need to do something to ensure the right to housing for everyone, and we have seen that everyone suffers a great deal from the situation of denomiments, we propose a motion for a resolution that we do not doubt that it will also be collected unanimously in this room, that it is to require that the Mossos d'Esquadra do not participate in the denomiment; concern for housing, no one outside their home; therefore, it is very simple, the Mossos d'Esquadra do not participate in the denomiments. We also present a proposal on the condition of citizenship, because everyone, regardless of their administrative situation, is considered citizens. We also propose, in relation to feminism, that it is the recognition of the work of cures, that it has the category of productive work and that it is also a contizable basis. A gesture that we believe could be a first gesture because public administration contracts renewable energy companies, nuclear free, non-renewable fossil energy free. And a final motion for a resolution aimed at reorienting, in its totality, the product model and planting sovereignty and economic democracy. Structural proposals which, moreover, we have decided not to compromise. We have not made any proposals from anyone and we have not dealt with anyone, and it is not that we are willing to remain alone, not to relate or not to agree; on the contrary, we will vote many of your proposals, many of which, well, some of which, not the masses, have been dealt with. And why? Because we also believe that we should take advantage of this plenary to challenge the functioning of a ple of poor people like this one. We know that the Regulation of the chamber regulates the functioning of the dynamics. We know that in the past legislature, precisely this regulation has been updated. We therefore clearly believe that the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure which cover this House, are inadequate in order to be able to debate with rigour, calmly, not only among the same parliamentary groups, but above all those entities which we have invited, which we have invited you to make an initial intervention, and which have no longer known more about us or about the motions for resolutions. This House asked with great anticipation, in fact, it was critical that we had so much to do so; therefore, it is inversely proportional that we have tried to celebrate this House to the point that we have dedicated ourselves to being able to read with detention the motions for resolutions that are presented. Yesterday at other hours of the night we got them; today at midday, as we were, we saw the reading of the transactions, and we put ourselves in a vote on questions that have an extraordinary fall, that should have a very deep trajectory and that, in change, we insist, there is no rigorous work. I think we could all settle for a monogram ple with these very low conditions of debate. Therefore, we insist that in the very monogramme that we are celebrating, whatever it is, we oppose in its entirety the Parliamentary Rules – nothing goes on, nothing will come after us – and that this goes in favour of giving us more time, more quality of debate and more depth in all and each of the proposals. We say that we will vote in favour of some motions for a resolution, which are that they do not accept a vote against, I mean, they do not require much justification. We shall vote against or abstain from some motions for a resolution which, precisely as they incorporate a very long battery of proposals, we can agree with 90 per cent of them, but there is something in the middle school that is impossible for us to assume and which, therefore, makes it possible for us to position ourselves or not in some things that we would certainly vote for, but there is something there that we cannot accept. And we'll vote no to cynicism, too, huh? Some political parties that make you see that suddenly they worry things that have never bothered them. Therefore, you can see that we are serving on the sidelines that there are juicy headlines: "The CUP votes against this. The anti-capitalist left positions itself against that. Well, yes. The anti-capitalist left will vote against certain things that, in their literality, are obviously acceptable, but that of the hand of cynicism, double morality and right cannot be tolerated. Therefore, we also insist that you go further than the headlines, because today you can generate juicy, tendentious headlines, who try to prove that the left-wingers have made the grip on others, and that there is a group that voted separately, and that those who have to give support to the government have not given it, at last. We believe that this ultimately has little interest. I believe that the people who are being screened for social emergencies, of whom we have filled our mouths since yesterday, they care very little. Therefore, we flee these types of headlines, we fight cynicism, we fight double morality, we abandon that most illustrious "all for the poor, but without the poor, and we continue to work, indeed, because this is the last plethora of poverty that our country ever needs. And that's just one way: with the high head, defending the break with a Spanish state that doesn't want to end with the poor, the break with a capitalist system that needs the poor to enrich those who want to be richer and insert the feminist agenda in the center of our policies. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.21.0	Then has the word Lord Chakir the Homrani, from Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.22.0	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. President, President, Councillors and Councillors, Members and Members, Guests and Guests..., I have been giving the turn to how to start this small intervention respecting the presentation of the motions for resolutions and how this extraordinary plenary has gone, all folded up. And I think that, in the end, I will start from the most optimistic window, from the window in which I think we all have to congratulate each other, and, surely, I will not end from this window. In this sense, thank the intervention of Mrs Albiach, because I believe that there has been a work that has been done in this Parliament with a very short time, with all the reason, in a way that is unreasonable, that is not reasonable and that we need to change. And, if we're going to dig deeper into the questions, whether this extraordinary Ple or whatever, we need to change this dynamic and..., absolutely agree. I think we've done the work we've done and we've done a lot of work. In a way, when I listened to some of the companies and companies – and I will say to them, "Companies and companies – that preceded me, I gave the feeling that this morning we were, there, everyone is sitting, quietly, at his service, no one has done anything, and I think that work has been done. And I think that in general, therefore, of this vexing, we can congratulate ourselves on it. There was a willingness to dial, there was a willingness to find spaces, joint spaces, and everyone moved in a certain way, and I think that's important, it's very important. What we should think about is whether we should give import to this thing, because that should be the normal thing. And that should be normal if we all remember who our paper is. And our paper here is to represent popular sovereignty. And who represents popular sobriety, if you don't have the ability to talk to everyone, you have a problem. We represent popular sovereignty, here we are plural and diverse, as is society, it would be less. And if we don't have that ability, we have to make ourselves see. And I think we need to do this self-criticism, huh? , force often, because..., this we have to make us look at on many occasions. Beyond that, I believe that it is a positive element that has been given, and that there has been this effort, and I believe that we will find ourselves with some votes that have been granted, that have been traded, that it is a very fair formula..., what we need to think is that this is a first part, of a game, if I may, the second part remains, and then there is a continuous game. If I may, I'll start with the continuous game. The continuous game that we have been asked to play – and remember that we were asked by the entities and the person who represented the entities, yesterday, in this Ple – is the ability to see the future, to look long. And this game continues..., we have the obligation to keep it, and I think we have to do it, and we have this obligation and we have to open it as much as possible. And we'll keep it open. And let's think about this model of the future, and we'll start with these things, and it's already been heard, that if we're always with the same... hey, quiet, each one defends a vision of the future. Hey, debate it, find apart. It's just, sometimes, suddenly this willingness not to respect sovereignty. And sovereignty is to respect that we are diverse, that we need to look for these spaces, and that the legitimacy of collectible projects cannot be avoided, and less in a parliament. It seems... it's about cynicism: it's cynical and sarcastic, if I may. We have this element, and this element was also a job that commissioned us to civil society. But then there's a second part of this game, and in this second part of this game, I'm sure we'll get into the reality that we'll find ourselves in, and we'll find ourselves in a corner. And the reality that we'll find ourselves, that we'll find ourselves here a long time away..., in a small room, it'll be that they'll start voting for things and for us, yesterday, in a small exercise of responsibility, of..., finally, honesty, say..., and I understand that it can be agreed or not, but in the end, summarizing, say... we'll vote that not to some proposals that represent 4,000_million euros. That's not what civil society told us yesterday. That's the other way around. That's generating expectations that I don't know who's going to face, huh? But it's that I find some dimensions... - some dimensions. Can we afford to do this? And I think everyone has seen that we have a will, that it will scratch everything that is possible, that it will do everything that is possible, that is the first priority, because I already know that a lot of people do not understand it, but this project does not understand if it is not the first priority. But it's that, gentlemen..., it's that in the end, there..., you do the exercise and say: "My mother! I said: "My sea! - Oh, my God! Because in the elements of the future, of the model, we have already located, we have open arms, there has been a debate that has been interesting. Yesterday late, in this plenary, there was a debate about future vision questions that was interesting, of model that was very interesting. Dius: "The issue of tax fraud has been raised. It's that with open arms, please! If the problem is that we're talking about a tax fraud level we don't have. The one we receive is smaller. It is that, of course, you say: "Can we recapitulate this with the tax fraud? If they can't, we'll have less! If..., it's our obligation, and I'm sure this government, and all the parliamentary groups that we're in this chamber, we have to force this government, the ones that we support and the ones that we don't, that the tax fraud surrounding the taxes that we're managing is working as best as possible. And I'm sure he will. But then, we're still realists and let's say things for his name: talking about some tax fraud we don't manage, it's what I find..., I don't know how to define it. Already, to try to give a little bit of humor, I've already fought... I was sure and laughing when I listened: "We need to strengthen the third sector. I was thinking: see, who has sent the third sector to the maritime fund, unfathomable of the FLA, that what we have to do to strengthen it is to take the Nautilus and lower it. [[relays]] Is that what you're asking us to reinforce this? Home, please! It's that..., cynicism, sarcasm..., search – take the dictionary – all the synonyms that they want. I find it ridiculous; the truth is, I find it ridiculous. It's that what we're generating is... This civil society, that we all say here that it's wonderful, that it's exemplary, that it's very good, that we're saying to them: "No, don't worry, we'll keep you in charge of work. Now, will they pay you? So, when the designs of the FLA... – and it must be an all-powerful being – they tend. So, no, it's not possible to do that. [[applause]] You can't do that. [[The applause continues.]] There are things that can't be done, there are things that can't be done, there are things that can't be said, and there are things that force us to make decisions that are and that we want them to be coherent. And in this sense, reviewing all this, it is that we can find things that have been presented to us – and I am sure that Mr. Fernando Sánchez has been... – that you say: "Hey, if..., in the literal..., but to all his proposals, we will vote against it. It's that we find ourselves a level of cynicism after all that, that we can't do. And when they talk to me, and when they reinforce the subject of the third sector, it's that I find it... it's that I find it in some dimensions that sometimes amazes me. But good. That's it, and we'll find ourselves with this and we'll have to manage this. But we will manage it, because what we don't lack is courage, I assure you; we will manage it – what we don't lack is courage. Now, we will manage it honestly and they will see in our vote always an honest will and I assure you that it is much easier to pull, pull and vote in favour; they will see in our vote an honest will. And, please, let us hope that this element that I have begun in the intervention, positive, on a voluntary basis, on a voluntary basis, on a voluntary basis, on the ability of all pleas to speak, to see where we agree, where we disagree, to look for these points, is true – because, if not, we will be fooling everyone – when in this House we are carrying the assumptions. And that's the way we want to deal with the threesome, and that's the way we want to deal with what our obligation is, which is to answer the weakest, the weakest layer of our society. And let's hope that when this second part comes in, there really is this will. And I can assure you that our parliamentary group will have this will. I want to make sure that the government will have this will, but the truth, the cult on the part of everyone – the cult on the part of everyone – with a serious, responsible vision and stay... Because, if not – if not – what we've done these two days will end up being a pyrotechnic party and I don't think it deserves to be a pyrotechnic party – I think it doesn't deserve to be a pyrotechnic party. From here, you will see our proposals. And we've been so clear, I didn't want to go in there too, because they already know them – they already know them. It is ironic, from what we are clear that we can execute, to the reality of our country. And continue as much as possible. And I assure you that if we have any chance of improving it, we will continue to improve it, because this is an ongoing obligation. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.23.0	Mr. Raúl Moreno, you asked me for the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.24.0	Yes, Madam President. It was only to inform, about the intervention of the Group of Catalonia Yes that it is Pot, that the position respects our position for the repeal of the labor reform that they propose is favorable. I, therefore, make it clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.25.0	Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.26.0	For an acclaim and, without being used as a precedent, to assert a contradiction.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.27.0	All right, no need for a precedent. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.28.0	Thank you. No, to confirm what the spokesman of the Socialist Group has said: we have granted, with this very fluid movement, to vote on the two proposals which affect the issue of employment. And, in any case, to tell Mr. Fernando, of the Popular Party, that we feel tremendously proud of being travel companions of all those who want a process constitute to save the social state, for a new socioeconomic model, to strengthen democracy. Always much better than being an accomplice to those who stifle democracy and want to carry the social state. We are opposed and, politically, confronted; with much pride. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.29.0	Before the vote, we'll take a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-10-1102.30.0	After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the different parliamentary groups, according to the order of entry into the General Register of Parliament, in accordance with Rule 152.2. The compromise proposals entered into the register will be voted on at the end. All motions for resolutions and corresponding corrections to the text submitted appear in order of order in the plenary file, which has been distributed to all Members. I will begin, first of all, with the motions for resolutions tabled for the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party. We are voting for resolution No. 1 on the priority of fighting the poor and the expansion of the social security system. The vote begins. 10 votes in favour, 102 against and 20 abstentions. Therefore, it remains rejected. We will vote on resolution No. 2, on promoting employment and tax incentives for businesses and contracting. The vote begins. It was rejected by 34 votes to 99, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution 3, on the deployment of the youth guarantee and the promotion of youth employment. The vote begins. It was rejected by 10 votes to 99, with 24 abstentions. We vote for resolution No. 4, on encouraging the occupation of the forty-five-year-old majors who find themselves in the dark. The vote begins. It was rejected by 10 votes to 99, with 24 abstentions. We now vote on resolution No. 5 on the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the labour market. The vote begins. It was rejected by 50 votes to 73, with 10 abstentions. We are voting on resolution No. 6 on reform and reinforcement of minimum income for insertion. The vote begins. It was adopted by 72 votes to 21, with 40 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 7 on fiscal and social support for Catalan families. The vote begins. It was rejected by 34 votes to 83, with 16 abstentions. We now vote on resolution No. 8, on the follow-up of the great people and the promotion of their living conditions. The vote begins. It was rejected by 10 votes to 82, with 40 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 9, on the fight against the child poverty and the guarantee of the feeding scholarships. The vote begins. It was rejected by 19 votes to 89, with 24 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution 10, on the new model of relationship with third-sector entities and payment of the debt. The vote begins. It was rejected by 20 votes to 73, with 40 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution 11, on the fight against the energy poverty. The vote begins. It was rejected by 34 votes to 72, with 26 abstentions. We now vote on resolution No. 12, on access to housing. The vote begins. It was rejected by 10 votes to 99, with 24 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 13, on restructuring and expansion of the service portfolio. The vote begins. It was rejected by 10 votes to 73, with 50 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 14, on reorganization, simplification and empowerment of social services. The vote begins. It was rejected by 34 votes to 72, with 26 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 15 on the deployment of second-opportunity measures. The vote begins. It was rejected by 34 votes to 99, with no abstentions. We will then vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We are voting for resolution No. 1 on social inclusion and social cohesion. The vote begins. It was adopted by 123 votes to 10, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution 2, on the guarantee of children's rights, with the correction of errors in paragraph 4 already incorporated. The vote begins. It was adopted by 123 votes to 10. We now vote on resolution No. 3, on education, with the correction of paragraph 3 already incorporated. The vote begins. It was adopted by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. We now vote on resolution No. 4, on youth. The vote begins. It was rejected by 51 votes to 72, with 10 abstentions. We now vote on motion for resolution No. 5, on occupation, with the correction of paragraph 8 already incorporated. The vote begins. It was rejected by 27 votes to 82, with 24 abstentions. We now vote on resolution No. 6, on health. He's been traded... oh! No, I'm sorry, this has been negotiated and we'll vote for it at the end. We are therefore voting now on resolution No. 7 on social services, protection and large people. The vote begins. It was rejected by 51 votes to 62, with 20 abstentions. We are voting on resolution No. 8 on the use of surplus food. The vote begins. It was adopted by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 9, on economics and assumptions. The vote begins. It was rejected by 16 votes to 82, with 35 abstentions. We are voting on resolution No. 10 on economic recovery and industrial policy. The vote begins. It was rejected by 52 votes to 71, with 10 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 11 on the Barrel Plate and Habitat Rehabilitation. The vote begins. It was rejected by 61 votes to 72, with no abstentions. We now vote on resolution No. 12, on territorial cohesion. The vote begins. It was rejected by 61 votes to 63, with 9 abstentions. I am sure that the motion for a resolution signed jointly by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot on housing and poor energy has been negotiated, and therefore we will vote for it at the end. Therefore, we are voting now on the motion for a resolution with the registration number 13720, on the feeding grants, signed jointly for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, and with the error correction already incorporated. The vote begins. It was adopted by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. We now vote on the motion for a resolution on minimum income for inclusion, signed jointly by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. The vote begins. It was rejected by 50 votes in favour, 82 against and no abstentions. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. We vote on the motion for a resolution with registration number 13722, on gender equality in work. The vote begins. It was adopted by 122 votes to 9, with 9 abstentions. We now vote on the motion for a resolution with registration number 13723, in order to guarantee the accommodation of victims of male violence. The vote begins. It was adopted by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. We vote on the proposal for a resolution with a register number 13724, in order to guarantee the universal economic performance. The vote begins. It was rejected by 27 votes to 63, with 43 abstentions. We are now voting on the proposal for a resolution with registration number 13725, on public transport tariffs, with the error correction already incorporated. The vote begins. It was adopted by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. We are now voting on the proposal for a resolution with register number 13726, on the regularization of foreign persons, with the correction of errors already incorporated. The vote begins. It was adopted by 83 votes to 10, with 40 abstentions. We now vote on the proposal for a resolution with a register number 13727, on the annual report on the social progress of Catalonia. The vote begins. It was adopted by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions and no votes against. We are voting now on the motion for a resolution with a register number 13728, for the better of the youth guarantee, with the corrections of errors already incorporated. The vote begins. It was adopted by 123 votes to 10, with no abstentions. We now vote on the motion for a resolution with a register number of 13729, for the repeal of the labour reform and for a decent job. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] It was adopted by 64 votes to 12, with 57 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] We are now voting on the motion for a resolution on social investment with the registration number 13730. The vote begins. It was rejected by 21 votes to 63, with 49 abstentions. We now vote on the motion for a resolution with Registry No. 13731, on the professionals of social services. The vote begins. It was adopted by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. The motion for a resolution with Registry No. 13732, which bears the title "Reversal detail in primary health care", has been negotiated, and therefore we will vote on it at the end. Also the motion for a resolution with the number of registry 13733, of struggle against sensellarism, which has been presented jointly for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, it has been negotiated and we will vote for it at the end. We now vote on the motion for a resolution with registration number 13734, in order to guarantee the best of the social services programme contracts, which has been submitted jointly for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. The vote begins. It was rejected by 61 votes to 62, with 10 abstentions. We now vote on the motion for a resolution with Registry No. 13735, on the repeal of the order of co-sponsorship in the light of dependence, which has been presented jointly for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot. The vote begins. It was rejected by 61 votes to 72, with no abstentions. We now vote on the motion for a resolution with registration number 13736, for the creation of a committee to follow up approved agreements, which has been jointly presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. It was adopted by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent. In the first place, we are voting on the motion for a resolution No. 1 on labour reform. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 10, with 58 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2 on fiscal measures. The vote begins. It was adopted by 99 votes to 10, with 24 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution 3, on the regulation of the price of the soil. The vote begins. It was rejected by 20 votes to 96, with 16 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 4 on access to land. The vote begins. It was rejected by 21 votes to 96, with 16 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 5, on the reconsideration of debt payment policies, with the error correction already incorporated. The vote begins. It was adopted by 99 votes to 10, with 24 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 6 on the implementation of a citizen's audit of the debt. The vote begins. It was rejected by 21 votes to 112, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 7 on the proposal for a new special concertation regime. The vote begins. It was rejected by 21 votes in favour and 112 against. We now vote on resolution No. 8, on the right to exist. The vote begins. It was adopted by 73 votes to 50, with 10 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 9 on the basic public health portfolio. The vote begins. It was adopted by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 10, on the fooder. The vote begins. It was adopted by 132 votes to one, with one abstention. [[Give me the applause.]] We now vote on resolution 11, on access to housing. The vote begins. It was rejected by 21 votes to 96, with 16 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 12, on the ordering of the non-intervention of squadron mosses in denunciation actions. The vote begins. It was rejected by 21 votes in favour, 111 against and no abstentions. We now vote on resolution No. 13, on gender and citizenship. The vote begins. It was rejected by 21 votes to 34, with 78 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 14, on the energy model. The vote begins. It was rejected by 37 votes to 96, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 15 on the product model. The vote begins. It was rejected by 21 votes to 96, with 16 abstentions. We shall now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. We are voting in the first place on resolution No. 1, on measures for economic recovery, the promotion of industrial policy and job training. The vote begins. It was rejected by 50 votes to 72, with 11 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2 on measures to combat long-term unemployment. The vote begins. It was rejected by 50 votes in favour, 83 against and no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 3, on the help plan to promote the employability of people with functional diversity. The vote begins. It was adopted by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 4, on support measures for self-employed workers, with the error correction already incorporated. The vote begins. It was adopted by 130 votes to two, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 5, to ensure that we are able to fight against job insecurity. The vote begins. It was rejected by 34 votes to 83, with 16 abstentions. We now vote on resolution No. 6 on the reform of public administration. The vote begins. It was rejected by 34 votes to 98, with 1 abstention. We now vote on resolution No. 7, on the payment of outstanding debt to the Generality with health, educational and social entities, and prioritization of aid to dependent persons. The vote begins. It was rejected by 50 votes to 72, with 10 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution 8, to reduce the waiting lists, and a better access to the health services, with the error correction already incorporated. The vote begins. It was adopted by 122 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 9, on guaranteeing the dignity of dependent persons with the necessary help. The vote begins. It was rejected by 61 votes to 72, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution 10, on equal access to all educational services, with the error correction already incorporated. The vote begins. It was rejected by 61 votes to 72, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution 11, to ensure better access to housing and to protect the most vulnerable communities. The vote begins. It was adopted by 112 votes to 21, with 21 abstentions. We are now voting on the proposal for resolution No 12 of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, entitled 'Measures to improve the living conditions of people without discrimination'. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, no, I'm sorry... don't vote. It's been negotiated and we'll vote for it at the end. We now vote on resolution No. 13, on the Children's Pact, to combat the poor child. The vote begins. It was rejected by 50 votes to 72, with 11 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 14, on measures to help vulnerable families. The vote begins. It was adopted by 122 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. We now vote on resolution No. 15, in order to guarantee work equality between men and women and work reconciliation. The vote begins. It was adopted by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group. In the first place, we will vote on resolution No. 1, on child poverty and food needs. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes to 11, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2, on energy poverty, and the proposal... [[Funnel veils]] No, no. We now vote on the motion for a resolution... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, because we'll vote for them at the end. The 2nd and 3rd have been negotiated and we will vote at the end; so now we will vote on number 4, which is about teaching and culture, with the correction of errors already incorporated. The vote begins. It was adopted by 122 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 5 on minimum income. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes to 11, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 6, on dependency, with the error correction already incorporated. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes to 11, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 7 on refugees. The vote begins. It was adopted by 99 votes to 10, with 24 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 8, on work. The vote begins. It was adopted by 73 votes to 60, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 9, on economic and fiscal policy. The vote begins. It was adopted by 62 votes to 50, with 21 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 10 on energy and water. The vote begins. It was adopted by 83 votes to 10, with 39 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 11 on moratoriums. The vote begins. It was adopted by 71 votes to 50, with 11 abstentions. Motion for a resolution No 12 has been dealt with and, therefore, we will vote on it at the end. We are now voting on resolution No. 13, on complaints to the Spanish State. The vote begins. It was adopted by 89 votes to 10, with 33 abstentions. And now we will begin the vote on the compromise proposals. In the first place we will vote on the compromise proposal between the proposal No 12 of the Group of the European Parliament in Ciutadans and the joint proposal of the Socialist Group of the European Parliament and the Group of the European Parliament in Catalonia. The vote begins. It was adopted by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. We now vote on the compromise proposal between the proposal number 12 of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, the proposal number 6 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot with the title« Reversio Retailes in primary attention to health. The vote begins. It was adopted by 113 votes to 20. Finally, we vote on the compromise proposal between proposals 2 and 3 of the Joint Parliamentary Group for yes and the joint proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot on housing and energy poverty. I have to warn you that the groups that have submitted this transaction have noticed that there is an error in the feeling that they say that ‘point 2 is changed, letter to, must say ‘point 2 is changed, letter to. The content of the modification is to delete the "regulatory" paragraph from item 2, letter b. Okay? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. It was adopted by 123 votes to 10. I have to thank them, because we have approved many things and I am happy. The session's up.
