ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.1.0	Good morning. The list of questions to answer orally is included in the Ple folder. In accordance with Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning, as the first item of the order of the day of this session. Also the record of the delegation of vote that, according to Rule 93 of the Rules, has made the deputy Àngels Martínez Castells, of the Gruppo Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot, in the spokesman of his group, Mr Joan Coscubiela. Before starting the oral questions, and answering the request submitted for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, the proposal the alteration in the order of the oral questions, so that the question to Government number 5 is able to substantiate in last place, that is, after question number 9. Can you approve this proposal, for your consent? [[Pause.]] The order of the day is modified, therefore, in this sense. [[Ask the Government about infrastructure]] [[310-00075/11]] First question to the Government about infrastructure. The question is posed by Mr Fernando de Páramo, of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.2.0	Hello, good morning. Thank you, President. Councillor Rull, « the Mediterranean Corridor would be an important step forward for Catalonia and also for the whole of Spain and Europe. In that I believe we will agree that the Catalan economy needs infrastructures that allow us to be more competitive, copying the models that work in successful countries. In fact, these are his words in a well-known rostrum in which, as I said, I fully agree with his statement. What worries me is a basic concept of the Mediterranean Corridor, which is the word «connection, because the Mediterranean Corridor, as you well know, what you seek is to connect people, what you seek is to connect goods. However, its model is that of disconnection. You defend it every day in this Parliament: you want to disconnect from Spain and, consequently, you want to do the same for Europe. My question is very simple: How does the Government intend to push a Mediterranean corridor if what they want is to disconnect from the rest of our compatriots? I would appreciate it if you could answer the question without the usual victimism and without the excuse that guilt is always on the side of others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.3.0	Next, the words of Mr. Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.4.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, it looks like you're trying to make a half-hour a little turbulent, if you'll excuse me, huh? [[Rialles.]] Because the other day we did an act, and I think it was an important act, at the country level: we all closed files considering that this is a basic and essential infrastructure. What we want is to have sovereignty so that we can connect better, not only with the rest of the Spanish State, but with the rest of the world and with the rest of Europe. So there are two things that are not compatible, but extraordinarily compatible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.5.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.6.0	Well, counselor, I'd like you to be a little more accurate, if you can be, in the answer, and answer me how do you do that? That is to say, how can one defend in the same phrase ‘connection and' disconnection? I believe that even a five-year-old understands this, that it is very difficult to reconcile stability and rupture, independence and Europe. A legitimate project, of course, that of you, to separate yourself from the rest of Spain and Europe; but you will understand that in an infrastructure as important as the Mediterranean Corridor it is very complicated to reconcile these two concepts. Connecting Catalonia with the rest of Spain and with Europe is incompatible with what you are explaining every day. I remind you of what I said at the beginning of my speech: there is that will, and we agreed on that, the need for Catalonia to have an infrastructure like this, but it is impossible to defend it from its position. How are you going to negotiate with the Spanish Government a connecting infrastructure, if every time you go to Madrid it is to tell them that you are going to disconnect and that you are going to leave Spain and that you are going to leave Europe? It is impossible for you to have the capacity to negotiate with the Spanish Government, which has the competence, that negotiation of the infrastructure. We are going to do it, I am going to do it – we are going to do it – because they are good things for Catalonia, but, above all, they are good things also for the whole of Europe and for the whole of Spain. And we defend it in the Parliament of Catalonia and we defend it, too, in the Congress of Deputies. Because it is impossible to want to connect Catalonia with Spain and Europe and at the same time want to disconnect the.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.8.0	Yes... you have been extraordinarily generic in general principles. Those who didn't express general principles know who they are? It's the same European Union. And the same European Union, through its Court of Auditors, made a very round approach. The head of the European Union's Court of Auditors is: « Who disconnects Catalonia, the Valencia Country, Murcia from the rest of Europe is the Spanish State from its inactivity. This is the big disconnect we have. Someone said: « Home, why do they make the Strategic Table of the Mediterranean Corridor? Because the Mediterranean Corridor is not done. That's the problem. And that's the background problem. The other day, President Puigdemont gave some data, which are interesting data. Miri, the year 2009, for the tunnel of Pertús there were to pass around 9,000 trains every year; the year 2019 was predicted that in passing, of goods, around 19,000. Do you know how many trains go by today? Nine hundred trains, the year. This is the problem of foundations, and the European Union is saying: "Who is disconnecting – who is disconnecting – Catalonia with the rest of Europe is not Catalonia with its will to be able to decide for itself, but it is basically the Spanish State that does not make infrastructures that are basic, that are strategic, that are central to the city of this country. That's the scheme. We speak the same language, at infrastructure level, as the European Union. And we speak the same language as Valencia and we speak the same language as the rest of the territories that have an optimistic vision of the future. The problem is that we don't have an interlocutor in the other band, because the Spanish State isn't there. And if the Spanish State is not, we, legitimately, have right to build a state that is our State, that is not a state that is going against us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.9.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the working conditions of workers in the meat sector of Osona]] [[310-00080/11]] Second question to the Government on the working conditions of workers in the meat sector of Osona. The question is posed by Mrs Marta Moreta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.10.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Consellera Bassa, since 1996 it has been known by job inspection the contracting of workers, to many escorts, as autonomous cooperatives; a situation which has practically become the only form of contracting in these enterprises. The meat sector, as you know, is one of the mainstays of the Catalan food industry, accounting for 4_percent of GDP and counting more than 30_000 workers. The fact that many escorts today is a labour dispute can result, if not remedied, in a social conflict, which has already held its first warning in the incidents that occurred in Osona's country approximately two months ago. What are the measures that the government is taking to prevent workers' labor rights being violated that are contracted as false self-governments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, there is the words of Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Social Affairs and Families and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.12.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. As you know, and you said it very well, the meat sector is one of the most dynamic sectors in our country. To Osona herself, who you were talking about, has 8,200 workers and her relationship with the company is of various forms: there is the worker who directly relies on the company, there is the self-employed worker and there is the associated labor cooperatives. I'd like to know what the conflict is or what it refers to, because there are conflicts that are business, and then, like the government, we can't enter it, it's union and employers; so we don't have anything to do, except to follow the conditions by way of the job inspection. If there's anything else, I'd appreciate it if you'd just let me know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, the Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.14.0	Miri Counselor, I don't doubt her good will, but reality is another. And, from the beginning of the labor dispute in the escorts, approximately two months ago, as I said, nothing has changed. You committed yourself to creating a cross-cutting work table, formed for the employers of the sector, the unions, the Confederation of Autonomous Workers of Catalonia, the Government, cooperatives and local administrations. Today, this table didn't meet. When I summoned her, especially, she was not neglected by the mayors and the mayors. Because, as we asked in the motion for a resolution submitted to the Labour Commission, it is no accident that Vic, Manlleu or Guissona have a 22, 20 or 48_percent foreign population respectively. We need an inspection plan that goes to the trouble scene. We need to act forcefully and against the violation of labour rights and against the clear indication of the existence of law fraud on the part of the co-operatives of work, of associated work, since the working partners have worse working conditions than the workers of the company who serve. It cannot be, he advises, that if we, trade unions and citizens, are familiar with these situations, you are speaking and not acting. Do you plan to immediately summon the cross-work table and incorporate the local world into it? Has any work-inspection activity been initiated on companies that use cooperatives fraudulently?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, there is the words of the Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.16.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Look, that's a good question, because unlike what you say about two... [[Funnel veils]] , the judgments on a company with false autonomies are from 2004 and 2005. Therefore, if it refers exactly to this topic, it is not two_months, but it is many years ago. There has been some conflict lately, so, what we were going to do on April 14th, the day of the Republic, we called the employers and unions to talk about the issue. We were going to compromise ourselves to make a table. The unions asked us to wait, because there was a parity. As you know very well, labor relations are not a fan of the government or of a particular company, but they are for good between workers and their representatives – they are the majority unions, in this case – and between employers. So they had an equal, they asked us three months to wait; but we didn't expect three months, but this morning there's a meeting of employers with the department to know exactly what points we can influence. Apart from that, I will tell you that the work inspection continues to work on both lines: on the one hand, they are acting on the companies that use the fraudulent use of cooperatives. I'll also tell you that labor cooperatives associate only with the fact that they have two assemblies per year of their workers are correct, and therefore the labour inspection cannot go any further from here. And, on the other hand, it has a work plan that is planned and that is already being done, at this hour, on these co-operatives exactly. We are asking for all the formal obligations, from the submission of annual accounts to each of the meetings. That in a company there are 600 cooperative workers and 60 of the company is totally correct. On the other hand, talking to entrepreneurs, as we're doing now, is like trying to solve the issue. Beyond here what we don't understand is how you can make the confluence between autonomies and immigration. I think we're all people and we're not...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.17.0	Counselor..., has exhausted time, I know hard. [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]] [[Ask the Government about the road C-31 to pass per Badalona]] [[310-00081/11]] Third question to the Government on the C-31 road to the pas per Badalona. The question is posed by Mr Raúl Moreno of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.18.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as many of you know, the C-31 on its way to Badalona and Sant Adrià del Besòs was the first highway to be built in the State; an urban wound that meant a real physical, social and emotional fracture for the lives and lives of the two cities. The C-31 is the continuation, we might say, of the Gran Via Barcelonina, but now I imagine this Gran Via as a highway that you pass to the height of a third pis to the center of the Eixample. In this way they see the veins and veins of Badalona and Sant Adrià the current C-31. We believe that this is the time to overcome the historic hardship that this infrastructure has assumed for the third city of Catalonia. In the later Committee of Territories, a motion for a resolution was adopted to study the proposed transformation of the C-31; a proposal in which the PSC voted in favour, all the difficulties that, as a group, we found ourselves in order to sign it together, certainly for the same partisan interests that have caused this problem to not yet be resolved. Only from the joint action of political forces and without parties can we find a solution to this problem. The study and subsequent work that will entail the transformation of the C-31_ has to contemplate all the possibilities of intervention, from the underground, if possible, until the descent to the level of urban plot, ensuring the connectivity of the adjacent streets, improving pedestrian continuity and making the appropriate environmental corrections. But until this transformation is effective, concrete work on the construction of the sides needs to be carried out. We find 400,000_euros to the submitted assumptions that would end up at the work already awarded and currently stuck on the sides between the incoming President Companies and the street Coll and Pujol. But we don't find any reversal for the second tram, which is the really complicated one, which goes from Coll and Pujol to the Sant Joan branch, and that's what requires a contribution of resources from the generality and the assembly. In the same way as an urgent reversal to make viable and execute the forecasts of the Urban Master Plan of the area of Sant Crist, because this is the only way to free the only one to build this side second. Mr. Counsellor, in the hope of the future transformation, which we share, of the C-31, will include the Government in the proper assumptions the investments necessary for the arrangements of the area, the expropriations, and also for the second tram, as it was compromised to the motion that you and we approved to the later Committee of Territories? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congressman. I thank him very much for this intervention because the objective is to be able to work with the Assembly of Badalona, the Parliament of Catalonia through all parliamentary groups and the Government of the Generality to make this possible. You're right about the analysis you're doing. That is to say, the C-31, at these times, is a wound that leaves Badalona municipality, and the badalons have the right that we can generate expectations to overcome this, that it is a wound and it is an intense wound. How are we working? We're working for phases. You know exactly, let's just say, which is the calendar we're facing. We have a first part of the performance that goes from the B-500, from the Lluís Companies, to the beginning of the Sant Crist, from Coll and Pujol. In these moments he knows that there is an act of archeological excavations. We have bid – more than EUR 200,000 –, will start these actions after the summer and have a forecast of three_months. This is a first part. From here on, we'll invest these three million to face this mile. Second phase, the one you planted, strictly on the barri del Sant Crist. And here we must be able to work together together with the assembly so that the expropriations that correspond, that touch, can last long. And in the context of the consortium, we have to be able to work folds to see how this expropriation is due to the end, without which we cannot last to the end this action, this reversal. And therefore, when we have resolved this, obviously this is a basic priority on the part of the Government of Catalonia, and obviously we will incorporate these resources to make it possible. But we need to flatten the ground from an operational point of view, and at these times we still don't have it flattened. We want to do it together with the Badalona Junction.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the gathering of refugees]] [[310-00073/11]] Fourth question to the Government, about the gathering of refugees. Asks the question Mrs. Mireia Vehí, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.22.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Good morning, MPs and MPs, last week we witnessed the dislocation of the Idomeni camp in Greece, and the death of more than 700 people at sea trying to enter Europe. It has to be said that from the generation month of this very year, 2,500 people died. On the other hand, last week we also had the news that there were a few more refugees coming to Catalonia. The names, contrasting, speak for themselves. Counselor, what is the Generalitat doing to turn Catalonia into a land of engulfment, beyond slang? What kind of moves and pressures are being made in the Spanish State to increase the share of asylum and allow entry? Is there an active pressure to denounce the harmful management that is taking place at the southern border, bordering southern Europe, where many people pass and enter, possibly asylum seekers, and where human rights are systematically violated?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.23.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Responses Constellera Dolors Bassa, Constellera de Traball, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.24.0	Member of Parliament, I will answer him because, in fact, the Pla d'accollida the door from the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families together with Councillor Romeva, d'Exteriors, which he does everything he represents to be able to work for safe lives for the collits; because for the Government the gathering of refugees is a deure, it is not at this time neither a charity nor a concession, but for us it is a deure in virtue of the Declaration of Human Rights, and also of the Geneva Convention. Tell him that the pressure is on two levels: we are talking to Brussels and talking to Europe, and we are doing it at the level of the Spanish State, because, as you know, who has the power at this time is the Spanish State, and we are doing it from a manifesto that we were going to sign new autonomous communities at those times, and that we have now joined together with València, Balears, Navarre, Basque and Extremadura to press the government, so that we can make this pressure. They didn't get 58 to Catalonia. What we're not going to do is what the Spanish government did to teach where they're going and where they're going, because we think they're people, they're people like us, and they have a right to privacy. If you want me to explain the plan to you, I'll explain it to you... or I don't know if I'm explaining it to you right now or if I want to ask you another question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.25.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, the Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.26.0	Thank you, President. Excuse me, Counselor, I thought we were addressing Councilman Romeva. The question has been dealt with by you as well, which is the guarantee of safe entry lives. Because the fact that there are no secure entry lives means that the vulnerability of people trying to enter Europe is much higher and the risk is high. Therefore, has the Generalitat planned to refocus the Catalan Agency of Cooperation on Development to collaborate with projects that guarantee safe entry lives? Has the Generalitat, from the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation, set itself priorities for countries that are host to refugees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.27.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Answer the councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.28.0	Yes, well-known Member of Parliament. Thank you, President. Yeah, the truth is, he's set up and he's already making programs to work. I don't have the information right now, I can't give it to them, and what I can give is what we're working on because when they get here they're citizens like you and me. Because of the shortcomings of the state program, we all agree that they do not count on us, precisely, as he explained, when our people arrive we have the communication twenty-four hours before; therefore, there is absolutely no communication. That is also why this relationship with the Basque Country, with valence and with the Protestant Balears that we should have the communication, with whom people arrive, as they do, so that we can relocate them or resettle them in a more correct way. What we have done is a committee for the gathering of refugees, working with all the entities and with everyone, eight working groups; meeting with said council members, and making a bank of resources where we have gone from 28 to 194 floors, 914 seats; 1,800 seats will be at the end of September and 4,500 at the end of this year 2016. Apart from working with all departments, Teaching, Occupation... because they can have a decent life a while longer here. No one has chosen to be a refugee and, therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.29.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.30.0	...the first wish...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.31.0	...has run out of time. [[Ask the Government about the policy of tolls]] [[310-00076/11]] Ask the Government about the policy of tolls. The question is posed by Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.32.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Minister Ana Pastor has just announced the non-renewal of the PA-7 concession, which means that the year 2019 will end the tolls on this highway. Is this news positive for the Catalan users, or does the "rabiet" that moved the weekend of the announcement still last? Thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.34.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I consider it positive but not credible. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.36.0	Thank you, President. The dictionary of the Catalan language defines cynicism – I quote textually – as ‘the attitude of the person you say lies with shame, giving the contrary of what you think or do. Counselor, if you're looking for a dictionary for cynicism, get your picture... [[remorse of the voice]] , because only of the most flagrant cynicism can be captivating demonstrations asking for « Catalonia free of tolls and then put on wheels when someone announces it. They do the opposite of what they say: you criticize the excess of tolls, but then in Madrid, as if a disciplined lobby is drawn, pressure to expand concessions from many years ago. [[Some applause.]] The mechanisms are always the same: when the end date of the concession approaches the convergent press: ask for more works of better, we carts or tolls in the shade for other infrastructures. But if I'm done with the brothel – I'm done with the brothel – and now they're in a state of history because they're giving you very worrying circumstances. By the year 2019 the AP-7 will have no tolls and the C-32, with a covert extension that you have planned, will continue to feel the most expensive highway in Europe. That is why I ask you a very simple and clear question: will you do the same thing that the Spanish Government does to get to be a Catalonia free of tolls, or will you continue to maintain and expand the concession of the most expensive motorway in Europe? I know it's an uncomfortable question for you, but I'm asking you to do it. Not just for what we're here for, especially for thousands of users on the C-32 Pau Casals motorway. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.38.0	Thank you, Madam President. Member of Parliament, I abstain from saying what picture there is at the end of the word demagogic, to hear us, I do not. [[Rialles.]] It seems to me that you already have enough leads where you're going, let's just say, this theme. Listen, basically, the minister, which explains is that after thirty-seven years that Catalans have paid tolls while other territories of the Spanish State did not pay, that this concession was over, explains this. Strictly explain this and you as an electoral fan. But you know what? What they don't explain is what the small letter is; what they don't explain is that there is a dispute with a dealership around a motxilla of €1,300_million, some actions that were made by an expansion of the third lane of the AP-7. Have you explained to us today how you will deal with this dispute? What's the use of these resources? Who's gonna have to face them? Why, you know what? In terms of infrastructure, the People's Party here in Catalonia has very little credibility – very little credibility – when you, in the railway field, announce an investment worth more than 300_millions from year 14 to year 16, and today when it's just six_months away from this term you have only executed 2_percent of the work. So, listen, if you come from someone else, let's hear what you say, coming from the People's Party, nothing– nothing. Talk about the small letter, because, if not, what can happen is that in the end who ended up paying these resources ends up feeling the rest of the city in Catalonia, first. Second of all, do I know how much it's worth to rescue all the tolls of Catalonia, the generality's tolls? Certainly, the year 2021 ended with the granting of the C-32 to Maresme and the C-33. We will not extend these concessions. That's what I'm announcing in your parliamentary office. Do you know how much it's worth to get rid of the rest of the landscaping? It's worth between 2,000 and 3,000 million euros. Can you tell us exactly where we're taking these resources? Can you tell us? Why, do you know what the alternative was not to have these paying lives? It was just not to hold them, not to hold the highways. Because while we have to pay for our own infrastructure, our own highways, paying people directly or with toll in the shade, the rest of the state is free to pay. This is the comparative hardship facing this country. [[Greetings.]] So what we're saying is: you, more than making election announcements on little basis, solve the issue of Catalonia's financing so that Catalans don't have to pay for unfair tolls. This is the great challenge this country has. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.39.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the reincorporation of the Balearic Islands to the Ramon Llull Institute and the Institute's forecasts for the coming years]] [[310-00077/11]] Ask the Government about the reincorporation of the Balearic Islands to the Ramon Llull Institute and the Institute's forecasts for the coming years. The question is posed by Ms Teresa Vallverdú, from the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.40.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, the objective of the Ramon Llull Institute is to promote external studies of Catalan language and culture at universities, the translation of literature and thought written in Catalan and the presence of Catalan cultural production in the various fields that conform the cultural space: theatre, cinema, circus, dance, music, visual arts, design, architecture... Since the establishment of the Ramon Llull Institute in 2002, the presence of the Illes Balears Government in this consortium has been intermittent and motivated by the alternation of the different political options, which has occurred in the face of the Illes Government. At the end of two years of its creation, the Government of the People's Party decided to get out of it and stayed out of it, until in the year 2008, another couple of times from the Socialist Party's hand, the Government of the Balearic Islands returned to it. With the PP another time to the government, 2012 came out again, and in 2015 the government of the Socialist Party expressed the willingness to return 'there to incorporate, which materialized a few days ago, on May 20, with the signature by President Puigdemont and President Armengol, of the agreement to incorporate the Balearic Islands into the Ramon Llull Institute. From our parliamentary group we can only celebrate this re-incorporation, which normalizes a relationship of collaboration between two territories which, with a rich internal diversity, share language and culture. But we'd like to know, Counselor, what is the content of the signed agreement, what it's short and short and what this agreement is about. For another band, we can also avoid a reality that, given this discontinuous presence linked to the different political options that have been to the Government of the Islands, opens a positive scene to the rest of Catalan speaking territories. Now, instead of not ruling the PP, there have been clear-cut displays with a way of doing that, ridiculously sketching the whole scientific community and all evidence, politicizes the linguistic question with the argument that the Catalan spoken there is a different language. It seems that it has returned the sign and respect for philology, and this makes us optimistic for what makes possible incorporation into the Ramon Llull Institute. Counselor, do you see it feasible? Do you think that the rest of the territories can form part of it in the near future? A possible entrance to the Llull in the Any Llull? Who are the axes that mark the policies of the Department of Culture in this respect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.41.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The word has the Lord Santi Vila, Councillor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.42.0	Very good morning, very honorable president. President, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen...; well, as you have described, I believe that we are actually experiencing a particularly sweet moment from the point of view of relations between the Government of the Balearic Islands and the Government of Catalonia. Indeed, the past 20 May culminated, once again, in the entry of the Balearic Islands to the Ramon Llull Institute – again because it is the third time that the Government of the Balearic Islands has made this decision, and a resulting government has turned its page and withdrawn. I trust that the third one will be overtaken because, ultimately, this is not an agreement that simply resolves an interinstitutional relationship _mark, but that what is possible is the international promotion of our best creators of the Catalan nation in a broad sense. In this sense, the Islands are absolutely determined to do so. This agreement, in fact, already has practical effects and consequences. There was a few days ago the inauguration – with an important role of the Ramon Llull Institute – of the Biennale d'Architecture; there was the presence of Catalan patxos, as well as of Illes' patxos; as in literature in Warsaw – which you know perfectly well – there were also authors of the Illes; as in the Marc de l'Any Llull, also people and figures so extraordinary, so universal – not of the Illes, universal – as Miquel Barceló, also counted with the recollection and with the impulse of Ramon Llull. We need to get more public and better public; this is the important goal around the promotion of our main creators. Prognosis? That we don't have to stay here, and that side of them the next step is to move forward, obviously, with the community of València; I think we can achieve results in the short and medium term, and why not? , also with the community of Aragó. It's obvious the marcs, huh? , in relation are established, are positive, and, in this sense, let me point you a line of work also relevant. Both the Ramon Llull Institute and the work that is being done, in projects and initiatives that in the short and medium term will become concrete – the later: Smithsonian Festival of Popular Culture in the United States, the most important festival – is the Xarxa Alcover, which is ultimately the intention to make possible the dynamization of an internal market between Valencians, Catalans and the Balearic Islands. I think he's traded, he's public, and we need to stimulate him from the instruments we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.43.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about people with disabilities]] [[310-00078/11]] Ask the government about people with disabilities. The question is posed by Mr David Rodríguez, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.44.0	Thank you, President. Consellera Bassa, as you well know, any advanced society is characteristic to have a special consideration for that part of our most vulnerable society, for those citizens who have more difficulty in being able to last a life with quality and maximum personal autonomy. In this sense, the collection of persons with disabilities, as has already been evident in various interventions in this plenary, constitutes one of the population groups to which special attention should be paid and to which the Government must devote one of the most important parts of its efforts. There are various complaints made by the sector in the best of its needs. To give it an answer, the plan of government for this legislature includes a follow-up of measures focused on the collection of persons with disabilities that addresses various fields of action: from social protection, the scope of work and accessibility to salvation or teaching. In this sense, this House also unanimously approved a motion to collect some of the sector's complaints. Of these, there was a particularly sensitive pair, on which... our parliamentary group claimed that there was work from the government to give it a compliment as soon as possible. The first was the constitution of the Council of Disability of Catalonia, which, in fact, was already the 25th of May, so last week. The second was a question that affected the collection in a particularly sensitive way. I am referring to the name of butxaca money, which is that amount of money for personal expenses of which the citizens who suffer from a disability have once faced the expenses that this entails. Throughout the presentation, it is of interest to this Member to know the latest actions taken by the Government in relation to this sector and, more concretely, around the issues raised in the presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.45.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.46.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. As you rightly said, for this government it is a priority for society to be inclusive, to ensure equal conditions and to prioritize resources. That's why on May 25th he called the Council of the Disability of Catalonia, which presides over the same president of the Generality, and we were fond of all the needs that they proposed to us. That same day we made an agreement, and an agreement was to increase the minimum amount guaranteed for personal expenses, which is called "butxaca money, which increases twice as much as they had. For example, to the physical disability residencies, all those who are there, will pass..., the increase will be from 30 to 60_per_cent; therefore, they will pass from 190_euro to 398; or those who are with intellectual disability, going from 132 to 331. It is indeed a minimum and minimum amount, but it represents the effort we make to give priority to those issues that we think are most important. That's what we promised if there were any assumptions. We have to get out... they represent about 8,9 million for the department; it means we're bringing them from somewhere else to put them here. Therefore, it is a priority for these people to have these moneys, just as it is a priority to have made a call for entities working with disabled people of 50_million euros so that they can have the moneys, and in the same Codes we committed ourselves to working together with people, entities and others to, as we changed the order, this 130/2014, which includes the co-payment, prepare as we can for the heritage issue. Therefore, it is also a compromise to change the heritage theme, which is one of the themes that affects them most. We'll do all this with the maximum agreement with all entities and the government, as it couldn't be otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.47.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the situation of the Law 2/2004, of better barrels, urban and vile areas that require special attention]] [[310-00079/11]] He asked the Government about the situation of the Law 2/2004, of better barrels, urban and vile areas that require special attention. The question is posed by Mr. Jordi Munell, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.48.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor Borràs, Law 2/2004, as the President said, of 4 June of a million barrels, urban areas and vile areas requiring special attention has been an authentic revulsion for many municipalities of the country that see how their ancient nuclei or barrels are gradually degraded. This law helped to make possible a combination of economic, social and urban activities that would allow not only to reform the facets of many barrels of the country, but also to boost its social, commercial and social cohesion. From the beginning of the years of the economic crisis, and even a little earlier, there have been difficulties in the development of this program, difficulties that have become evident because the compliment, in a certain way, was conceived, conditioned by a certain economic environment of prosperity, much different from the reality that the assemblies of our country have had to live and, above all, also the same Government of the Generality. Some joint ventures have made a considerable economic effort to continue to develop comprehensive intervention projects, mainly by totally or partially implementing some social activities that would help to reduce inequalities in these barrels, which have obviously also been greatly affected by the economic crisis. At the same time, other assemblies have decided to paralyze or suspend execution until the economic situation allows the Generality to return to the pending payments for the development of this program and of these projects. In this sense, honourable Counselor, I would be pleased if you would explain to us how the Government appreciates the current situation of the Barrel Law and, to the extent possible, what respect is intended to do to give response to these municipalities, so much to what they have done, in their own right, as those who have decided to paralyze it in the hope of the intervention of the Generality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.49.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms. Meritxell Borràs, Governance Advisor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.50.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. MP, effectively the Barrel Law has been a positive tool for transforming the hundreds of barrels in the country that were in a difficult situation from an economic, social and urban point of view. And you said that too, the management of this program has been difficult and, in this sense, we have had difficulties because of the economic situation of the Generality and also because of the lack of funding that the central government has under the government of the country. Therefore, in this sense, there has been some difficulty in financing these projects, and this, logically, has made it difficult at the time to push them forward. I would also like to say that the two later calls of the programme also contributed, therefore, to making it difficult to compliment these obligations, and, therefore, in this we are working to resolve it. However, the agreement... and in this sense the Government is putting an important effort to reverse the situation, a situation of this program and put it up to date. So it's been accounted for by the day of today's entire debt, and so we've straightened out and we're paying for these jobs. In May, however, the Generalitat will make an important effort in paying €34 million to local authorities and, among this chapter, 26 went precisely to the Barley, with which it is an exhibition of a clear willingness to liquidate this existing debt. We know that these 26_millions are neither the ultimate solution, but it is a show of the Government's firm commitment to resolve this matter; compromise, too, in which it wants to be the reinforcement, in a future, through, therefore, 20_millions of euros, that the assumptions are predestined to a new convocation – also in which is the subject of Llei de Barris–, and, for another, therefore, to make a more positive plan in the social sphere. Therefore, we can talk about the Government's firm willingness to push all these projects forward, also firm willingness to unblock economic aspects that allow us an extraordinary extension in the last two years, 2009 and 2010. And, among all that is possible, to give a definitive answer to municipal complaints, and, for another band, we will continue to bet and enhance, to the extent possible, this Barley in an effective and clear way.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.51.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the compliment of Resolution 7/XI, about the recovery of the 2012 overtime and other public workers' labour rights]] [[310-00074/11]] He asked the Government about the compliment of Resolution 7/XI, about the recovery of the 2012 overtime and other labor rights of public workers. The question is posed by Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.52.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, you have put forward assumptions on which to incorporate commitments made in this plenary in relation to the officials and officials, and you have not yet concluded the negotiations sufficient to incorporate these commitments; for example, to pay the 2012 payment. That is why I ask you directly: what day will you return the money that you give more than three years ago to your workers and workers for a work done and not charged?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.53.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms. Meritxell Borràs, Governance Advisor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.54.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vidal, you know that the government has made a proposal, a firm proposal to recover 75_per_cent of this 2012 pay, the 25 has already recovered, and, for another band, also, to recover the labor rights of public workers. In this sense, you know that our proposal has been partially accepted, that the General Staff Negotiation Bureau of the General Administration is still negotiating. And, therefore, in this sense, so let's hope to reach an agreement soon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.55.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.56.0	Listen to me, Counselor, you know that you do not fulfill the mandate of this Parliament, as at least effectively. Look, you personally voted for it, voted for this Resolution 7/11, and I already told you that there was evidence of fire to know if you were the same government as before or not, and it was if you complemented those commitments. Don't pass the test, Counselor. Don't pass it, because you do the same as always: don't retaliate any more, but take advantage of the girls' retaliations to square the numbers. But, in addition, you cheat – cheat – because you intend to delay the payment of the payments due to 2017 and 2018, when you will no longer be following your calendar. That's cheating. And it's that the negotiating attitude still doesn't exist. You don't accept any of the union proposals: you don't want to hear about calendars to recover 2013 and 2014 payments; you don't want to talk about reversing the rest of lost rights, such as the Social Action Fund or complementing it to the cent_per_cent of downloads by malalty, or replacing downloads, or transparent access to substitutions, or reducing time. All I'm saying is the resolution that you personally approved, and she was already a counselor when she did. Counselor, it doesn't have to be that this happens because they don't get to push a little bit of tax on the good rich people of the country while the lords sneak up on Panama and jump them for windows the accused of 3 per cent? And I don't say it for serious things and things that are so much harder, just to stop being mean to the workers and the workers, who are the only ones in all of Spain who haven't paid yet. Listen to me, I demand your personal commitment in the compliment of this resolution. Integrately. Personal compromise. And they ask him to give instructions to make a serious, effective, real negotiation. That's not what you guys do. And I don't demand privileges for you to function and function, but you know that retailing rights and salaries for you to function is a classic, very classic way of lecturing the rest of the labor market, and that's not, that's not, good attitudes for a new country that you claim. This is the old country's attitude, and if these are the conditions we may have to interpret that what you're building is just a decoration. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, there's the word "counsel."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.58.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. MP, if I may have a simple remark... I have no more, but I, I, compromise there is a hundred_per_cent, with the agreement that this Parliament made, but I did not vote for it, I am not a MP; she will advise yes, but I am not a MP. That said, the compromise is total. We've already acted proactively. But you don't cheat on us, Mr. Marc Vidal. You don't do it to us, because you know there's an agreement here, and you mentioned it, to pay this pay between 2016, 2017 and 2018. In this sense, the Government has put different proposals on the table, on the Bureau. The latter, to pay during 2016 a 15_per_cent, 2017 a 30_per_cent and 2018 a 30_per_cent. We haven't reached an agreement, I'm sure. But that's exactly what they're talking about. And we have advanced – we have advanced –, and in this sense you know that you have returned, for example, labor rights such as the return of personal days or vacation days for old age reasons. So, listen to me, the compromise is there, and it's firm. There is a clear will on the part of the council, but on the part of the whole government, to make this agreement, which we believe and believe is just, that it is just because we can return this payment to the workers, but logically this must be done in such a way that it is possible, for a band, also, with what resources the Generality has at its disposal. So, when you say to me, "Home, you don't believe it, and you only talk about second things, I'd like you to talk about the positives, as I mentioned before, don't you? The return of the days, the return of the days by old age, the days by three years... And, also, why don't you talk to us about the issues that we have raised on the table, such as, for example, incorporating ourselves into the perception of 100_per_cent of wages in cases of temporary incapacity, or establishing the productivity complement linked to the assessment – this is also a topic we have on the table – or redefining the concepts of social welfare aid? Listen to me, we do take this issue seriously. Not in terms of electoralism, we are working in depth, because we know that the public workers of Catalonia have made an effort and that now we have to return it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.59.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the explosion of the chemical industry of the Mafumet people and the systems of measurement of the quality of the air and about the government's commitment to the new water culture]] [[317-00051/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political and social situation. The question is posed by Mr Sergi Saladié, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.60.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President. As you know, last week there was an incident at the Pobla refinery - the Morell, in the area of Camp Tarragona, with an episode of contamination and social alarm that has opened up a whole debate about what must be the relationship of this industry with the territories. And a first question that we ask you is what actions the government will take to prevent new episodes of contamination, and, above all, how the quality measurement systems of the air will improve, taking into account that the current meters only measure and control certain primary contaminants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.61.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.62.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Member, you ask me a very specific question... that, in any case, with great taste, the departments involved, which is not just one, but that at least two, they can expand the information. But know from the outset that this episode... Finally, we maintain the measurements of the quality of the area with all the mechanisms we have, and also with the collaboration with the University of Rovira and Virgili, and we must always give, and, in this case, also the maximum guarantees to the citizen of Tarragona on the safety and quality of the area of the entire area affected by the chemical industry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.63.0	Thank you very much, President. Next, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.64.0	Thank you, President. As far as the south of the Principality is concerned, we disbanded Tortosa. We had the monumental shame of having to vote – democraticly, yes – if it was kept in a little bit of a Francoist monument. Any normal society would have fallen to the ground by now. A whole oxymoron. But now we are not here to make a list of hardships or complaints from this forgotten and punished south, and I am not misinterpreted, Mr President, but we want to take advantage of the recognition of all the people who fight in these territories, such as the Cel Net Platform, the same Commission for the Withdrawal of the Francoist Symbols of Tortosa or the same Platform in Defense of the Ebro, which this diumengmos once again calls for a great demonstration for the streets of Barcelona. This platform is an example of consistency, of courage, of courage, of compromise, which has never tired of fighting for a river with water and sediments and for a new water culture, it has fought against the plans of all governments of all colors: reds, blaus, lighter blaus, greens, which have at least planted a transfer when they have ruled. The question we are asking is whether the new government is ratifying its commitment to the new water culture and against transshipments. And we can't tell him that they fight very hard – very hard – against all the hydrological plans of the State, while here, with the Pla de conques internal, they want to lower by a 40_per_cent the ecological cabals established for the same Government, while, moreover, they leave the doors open to transfers between conques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.65.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.66.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Congressman, you have spoken of various concepts. I have done well to talk about the consultation that was held in Tortosa, to insist on a government compromise for the net – I remember that in the episode of what you referred to there was a human error that has been recognized as such, and therefore, in this sense, things also go through human errors, which we do not like to be produced but which are produced; in the end – and in the context of the Platform for the Defence of the Ebro, which is a platform that has enjoyed the support of this government, which in the concentrations that it has done to defend the interests of all that this water culture represents in the territory has counted on the explicit support and decisions of the government, and will continue to do so. What happens is that if we talk about the new water culture and the commitments that the government has, I would ask everyone to look at it in its conjunction, in the conjunct of the territory. Because a new water culture must be based, first and foremost, on the fact that all people have access to water, and with that we agree. And we know that we have parts of the territory where this is at risk, and so we have to make decisions. According to the report, the new culture has to affect everyone, those conques that may be threatened, but that in practice they are not because there is no hydrological plan or those conques that suffer some transfer and that for many years – many years – have silently rejected a very great deal of loneliness. And this government, and I speak concretely of the Third, has finally put measures on the table to reverse this situation as well, to give a fair deal to all the conquests that Catalonia has that may have threats or that may suffer threats. And this government will find it precisely in the non-retorical defense, which when it is necessary also to go to the demonstrations, but above all, in the practical defense of which we all understand as the new water culture, which, I insist, must abhor the whole country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.67.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the arrests for incidents in the city of Gràcia, Barcelona, and the character of the government as a particular accusation]] [[317-00053/11]] He asked the president about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.68.0	Thank you. Mr President, as you know perfectly well, there have been heavy incidents, heavy incidents, at the barrio de Gràcia this past week. The result has been that content has been cremated, cars and motorcycles have been destroyed, private businesses have been destroyed, insecurity has been created, and there has been a significant number of moves that have been injured. Moreover, the movements have seen as on the part of the protesters the..., proceed to a humiliation of all unnecessary. I wanted to ask him two questions. The first: what value does it make you that the result, the balance, of everything that has passed so far to the barrier of Grace..., only two arrests have been made? That's the first one. And the second: the Generalitat de Catalunya is a person as a particular accusation against the people, the individuals, who have created wreckage in urban furniture and in private goods, and injuries to the movement?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.69.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.70.0	Yes, thank you very much. As I suppose you had occasion to hear my statements last week before more than 450 people in Madrid..., I made a very clear appreciation of what those facts were, of explicit support for the performance of the Mossos d'Esquadra, and of support for their commands and political leaders. If you can pass today a scale of wrecks is because this scale has been worked out precisely by the Squad.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.71.0	Thank you very much, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.72.0	Mr President, once again it does not satisfy the question we have asked you from the Group of the People's Party. From the People's Party we understand that the situation that has occurred with only two detainees may be due to two reasons. The first, lack of professionalism on the part of mossos d'ésquadra who do not know how to do their job well, which we are convinced from the People's Party that it is not, because they are excellent professionals, or that there has been a political instruction that after all the incidents that have occurred only in four days there have been two detainees. Therefore, from the People's Party we would like to point out that we understand very clearly that there is a will, a political intention, not to act in relation to those responsible for this incident. And this is not the fruit of chance. It is evident that when among those who provoke the incidents are people..., next to..., people who are part of their governing partners, or are militant in the party of their governing partners, of the CUP, this element is not casual. And we are also deeply surprised, Mr President, that yesterday, at the meeting of the Governing Council, the Government of the Generalitat announced that it intends to lodge a complaint against me for highlighting these facts, when those responsible are very close to it. [[The orator shows a photograph to the chamber.]] Mr President, look at this photograph, and you will see that this photograph that I am teaching you..., those responsible for attacking the neighbors, those responsible for humiliating the mossos d'équadra, we are not the ones sitting on this side of Parliament, but we have them very close and they are behind you. So, I'd ask you, because I'm sure that Gracia's neighbors are going to thank you, that less trying to press charges...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.73.0	Congressman, you've run out of time, I know it's hard. [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]] He's run out of time. [[Some applause.]] Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.74.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, I'm going to look at this statement that you've made that squad movements are excellent professionals, because we've heard enough alone, defending this. But to be excellent professionals, your government has cost you a few years to admit them to the body that assesses the risk of a terrorist threat, eh? And it hasn't happened yet, that. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, to be excellent professionals, Mr Albiol, predict the practice with the example. Look, if there's an administration that hasn't abandoned its position, if there's an administration that doesn't intend to delegate its skills to anyone and its responsibility to anyone, this is the General Administration, and these are the Squad Movements. And there's a lot of people, a lot of people who feel fit for the action that the Squadron Mosses are doing in the barrier of Grace before these incidents. And it's a very valued action for the people. And I let him say that he must be very little responsible – very little responsible – to do what you came here to do, which is to lie, or to suggest a lie, which is to be the same. The lie is to say: "This government has politically ordered that there be no arrests so as not to disturb parliamentary partners. Is it possible to know how this claim is upheld, Mr Albiol? Is it possible to know how this statement is supported? Have you seen any decision, any document, any action by the government, the councillor, the mayor, the president, ordering that no one is detained? You said that. Can you hold on to that? Or perhaps he's used to having a police officer – as his Interior Minister has – who obeys political instructions and who prepares reports... [[Greetings.]] We... we don't order reports to the police, false, we don't; we don't order political arrests, which you see is missing. Detainees order the courts and decide the police, as it has always been in this country and as I hope it has been for many years. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.75.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Salellas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.76.0	For allusions to the parliamentary group, obvious and slanderous. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.77.0	I'm sorry... - I'm sorry, Mr. Salellas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.78.0	Yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.79.0	...but this is a government control session for the President of the Generality. [[Funnel veils]] There are no allusions or contradictions here. I know it's hard, but we've already stayed and that's it. It's a government control session. We don't give words – we don't give words. We're gonna stay here. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's a question session to the President of the Generalitat, we've already stayed that we don't... – that we don't. I'm having a hard time, huh? But no, I don't give him the word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, no; it's that we stayed that no, that in a control session there were no allusions or contradictions. We're gonna stay here. That's what it looked like. I'm having a hard time. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] In hard sap – in hard sap – but we have already stayed that no. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the social impact of the possible false closure of the case of Esther Quintana]] [[317-00052/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. Ask the question, Mr. Lluís Rabell, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.80.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. Well, a few days ago – a few days ago – Mr. Jordi Dalmau, who is the secretary general of the Union of Commands of the Squadron, was worried – and we think he was very worried – about the fact or risk that Esther Quintana's iron is closed to false, and said that the party leaders were wondering; an opinion that somehow confirmed a few days later, the same commissar Josep Lluís Trapero. And we think that's it. They're not just flattering themselves, but they've been flattering them – and there's an undeniable political responsibility here –; they're flattering them from the principle with a whole series of contradictory and disloyal statements for which he was then an Inner Councillor, Mr. Felipe Puig, and they've been seemingly appalled by reprehensible actions. And let's not say it to ourselves; that's how the judge, the prosecutor, and the same defense of the defendants, who thought that he lied to justice and that he was obstructed. We want to ask you, President: are you aware of the social impact that a denial of justice would have on a case like this, which has affected this country's public opinion so much?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.81.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.82.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, you know what all the precedents and circumstances of this case are, and under what conditions justice has given rise to a verdict; a verdict that we will not, of course, discuss as this government is used to doing. I also have to tell you that everything you have to see with this case always concerns you, always, because we will never forget, beyond police errors or concealment of information or what may be there, that this affects a person, who has an affect for life, and is a person who, even though we have repeatedly apologized to him, never – ever – reward her enough for the damage caused. Therefore, whatever issue I have to deal with in this case, independently, on the margin of a firm feeling, this government looks at it with great sensitivity and with great interest.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.83.0	Thank you very much, President. Next, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.84.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, no, the question, in fact, goes further. Think that we are living at an effectively complicated time – and I think that even the intercanvi that preceded my question proves it – we are living in a complicated situation, in which the police are required for complex and difficult tasks, and that they cannot execute a democratic police without the escalph, without the complicity and recognition and legitimacy that binds the citizenry. Therefore, a case such as this one concerns us for a double or three-fold: first, for a denial of justice in the case of an affected person, who feels more assaulted, or denies his right; for the same society, which is stunned before a situation that ends up like this; but for the same police, because we think that all that you have undermined your credibility, that you have suspended your relationship with the citizenry, is an extremely negative affect at times like these. Therefore, what we ask of the President of the Generality – and this went beyond the same councillor, who has already spoken this way recently – is that you use all of his democratic authority to clarify the facts and why it is done in the end, for the sake of everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.85.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.86.0	Yes; thank you very much. My honourable Member, I thank you for your intervention, because you have said things that I share not only in literality, but in the experience with which you pronounce them. And, indeed, this government is the first interested party that if there is the slightest clue to where we can get ourselves to stretch and get to a truth... that we know it's incomplete, we know the truth doesn't close the feeling, we know it, and we don't have any more elements to go further, but if we have this government's commitment to them is round: we'll stretch them out because the victim's rescue, in this case, requires it. And even though we come to the clear and certain truth, there wouldn't be an effective compensation for the victim either. You said that the police are in a situation where they need to enjoy the assailant, the recognition and the complicity. And I agree. Mass often – we have seen it a short time ago – is frivolous around the difficult task of the police. The police have the task of ensuring the security of the people, of defending, therefore, an element of freedom, and cannot be a child of interchantment with political toilets, and, in this sense, I would like to thank them for their responsibility for their intervention. The police do their job, they do it with the support of the government and, moreover, they do it with the support of the citizenry, the one that may not be manifest, the one that may not be creamed, sure, but who is confident that we will not leave the position. Does that avoid human error? No, no, Therefore, the longer the intervention, the more likely there is a human error. But we do not take a human error to try to criminalize what is an indispensable, enormously important, police task to our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.87.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the presentation of the draft law of assumptions without having the necessary support]] [[317-00055/11]] He asked the president about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.88.0	Thank you, Madam President. Very honourable President, do you think there has been any uncertainty about bringing the Presumables Bill to the chamber without having given it to your parliamentary partner or to any other groups in the chamber? Yesterday, his parliamentary partner made a strong statement that he will not support this project of assumptions and that he wants the government to present a new one. Is that what he's gonna do?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.89.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.90.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. I hope that in a rhetorical way, because if you consider that a government, one of the functions of which is to present assumptions, considers that it is certain to fulfil one of its main obligations, I must say that it is; it is clear that we believe that it is certain to present what we are good assumptions and it is clear that we believe that it is right to think and defend that in the parliamentary process we can produce – and I hope that you will not stop us – the debate in order to be able to enrich and improve these assumptions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.91.0	Thank you very much, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.92.0	Thank you, President. I think they've made a mistake with assumptions that don't agree with anyone. And, indeed, we want to debate them, because we have a goal to the totality, founded, that we want to defend and vote. But I think that a government, to know if it has a majority to govern, should, if it brings a project of assumptions, be approved. And we have already found it very surprising that in the case of the Government there was a discrepancy on such a fundamental issue as taxation: while you were talking about lowering taxes to lower taxes, the vice president was actually talking about lowering them to lower taxes at the same time as pushing them to higher ones. Your parliamentary partner has given you some difficult things to accomplish for you, but they are clear: they ask you for assumptions that do not complete the deficit commitments, they ask you to include tax figures cancelled by the Constitutional Court and to support the fiscal pressure to make them higher both for what you do to the IRPF's Catalan tram as well as to taxes on inheritance and donations and that of assets. In the context of the debate there is a disjunctive between autonomous assumptions or assumptions granted with Montoro; those which break with legality or which simply follow the full benefit of our tax resources and of other things. I believe, Mr President, that you are being asked for consistency with the resolution of 9 November already annulled. And it's hard to make a living: whether it's disobeying or not, and the paripe margin is esca, not to say non-existent, like the debate that is taking place on this claim that would be breaking with the law to create the social protection agency, but that some may think that it is simply recovering the ICASS, the Catalan Institute of Assistance and Social Services, eliminated by Convergence and Union. But anyway, in Catalan politics we have seen many giragons and contortions until the last minute to save the screen. I believe that, Mr President, if things go the way they seem to go, it is very difficult for you to say in your Parliament that you have the cohesion and the majority and the parliamentary support needed to properly develop government action. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.93.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.94.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Iceta, I suppose you must confuse desires with reality. I don't see him very worried because the government can't have a tool that you know is an indispensable tool to do the policies the country is asking for and waiting for. It's obvious that there's no such thing as disagreements. We have come to the conclusion that in his party there are conflicting sounds in the flaming proposal of his political leader about what must be the deal that Spain has to have with Catalonia, and that the barons are already out there discussing openly what should be the star proposal for their own elections and how to resolve what we are trying to resolve here as the least seventy-two deputies that we have the absolute majority to bring it forward. Therefore, discrepancies are normal and what matters is whether or not we have presented a good draft of assumptions. And that's not to make a joke; that's to complete the obligations and that's to complete the compromise that I made when I took over the job and presented, for sure, the government action program, which is what justifies that there are the assumptions that there are. You have apologized very much for the proposals of the other political groups. I hope to have the opportunity – and I see that we will not have it, because you reiterate your goal to the totality – to know exactly who your proposals are. But I'm already getting ahead of you who are some of the pluses of the assumption that you say it's coming back. We have more than 1,000_million to invest, of which 870 in social parties, which means: reduction of waiting lists in surgical interventions, reduction of waiting lists in diagnostic tests, increase of groceries to the most needy families, we teachers for schools of maximum complexity, increase the minimum income, more money to avoid denouncements, more residential places for older people and for disabled people. All of this – all of this – which you have to make seem indispensible, is what these assumptions propose. And your group will have to explain to whom it joins the votes, to whom it votes, to reject the assumptions that provide for all this and in the absence of which all this – all this – would not be possible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.95.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the free text books]] [[317-00050/11]] He asked the president about the political situation. The question is posed by Mrs Inés Arrimadas, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.96.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, the school is finishing and a few months from now many Catalan families will have to pay for their children's textbooks. This has a cost of between 200 and 250 euros, depending on the case, however, that many times is badly a expense that they cannot take on. In change, to other autonomous communities textbooks to public education do not entail a cost to families, as a basic guarantee of universal education, free of charge and with equal opportunities. Mr President, does it compromise you that Catalan families also have free text books as they do in other autonomous communities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.97.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.98.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Congresswoman, I thought it was a government control session and not a space to sell election program pendulums, huh? With all due respect, I say so, because it does me the effect that you know very well what this government's commitment to education is, which went far beyond the free bar magic proposal for everyone, free for everyone. Yes, I can tell you, and I am forwarding it, that... or you should know, that what you are helping the families of the centres of special complexity, in fact, the Generalitat gives help in obtaining these books.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.99.0	Thank you very much, President. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.100.0	Thank you, Mr. President. You think you have very little respect for a concern for all Catalan families. And that's not demagogic because it's done in other autonomous communities. Do you know what's going on? That governance is a priority, and you already know it as a priority. Catalonia is the autonomous community with the most in the public, where the higher ranks cover all of Spain. But that's right: he's at the expense of education or sanitation. You get to allocate millions of euros to summer structures, but then they say they don't have money for social policies, or, for example, to do what others do, which is to guarantee equal opportunities at school. Citizens are interested in the problems of Catalans, and we have put forward this proposal, a proposal that does ask Catalans for the same rights that other families have in other autonomous communities, and that sets out what we say. The books, according to our proposal, will be managed by educational centres, and they will be left to families by means of a loan system and will be used for more than a year. This would mean a very important kindergarten for families and help children learn, too, to take care of school materials. And what we're proposing is not science-fiction or demagogic, it's a reality in other autonomous communities with the same skills that the Catalonian Government has, and with the same funding system, or worse, than we have. Catalan families must have the same rights as the rest of Spain's families. And you get excuses, because you make the Constitutional Court serve as an excuse for everything; but, if this is approved, the court will drop it, because it is our competence, because it is something that families need and because we have money to do it. I ask you to answer me on this proposal: will you allow this to be debated in Parliament? Will you care about the parents and the seas? You have to decide whether you want to continue spending millions of euros on state structures or whether you want to invest in the future of Catalans. We're very clear about this. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.101.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.102.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, many of these things that you have listed are already being done, not by now, some time ago. And you should know a little more and maybe talk to..., like they don't have any mayors – I don't know how many mayors have – so you can't know what the compromise is – what the compromise is – about the policy of this country in relation to a good that in this country, more than anywhere else, we have treated as a very precious material. And if somewhere there's a broad, unfortunately not unanimous, consensus, it's in the education system in Catalonia, and historical. So I would ask you that, this little respect that you say I have, it was a little more daring to deal with an assumption that it is of a..., in short, of high sensitivity. You made an assertion a little thick and said: "There is no other community like Catalonia that treats so badly... Listen to me, 73_percent of the expense of the presupposition– 73_percent of the expense of the presupposition– does it seem to you a little bit, to social policies? You speak that this is a country where there are many in public... you can support... [[Funnel veils]] – You can support..., listen to me a little, please? - You can support... - A little education, huh? Since we're talking about teaching; a little education wouldn't hurt you – you can support... – because it's published data – you can support – you can support – you can support – that the number of public employees in Catalonia is higher than in the rest of the communities? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, you said it's a place where we have the most in public, where the other guys cover the most. Can you claim that the public worker/inhabitant ratio in Catalonia is superior to other autonomous communities? [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] So, it's exactly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.103.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.104.0	...the opposite.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.105.0	Please... [[Widow's remorse.]] Respect...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.106.0	I don't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.107.0	...we respect the words, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.108.0	Jo, I didn't interrupt. I've listened attentively to everyone and I'm used to listening attentively to everyone. I'm asking him to make this little effort, not that... it's not much to ask. I think that people will appreciate it, after all. I, for what he does to the same rights... oh, and so much so! Why do you know what's going on? The poor in Catalonia may still be poorer than other places in the State. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And here they take away our tools so that we can properly treat our poor. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.109.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the compliment for the Government of Resolution 1/XI]] [[317-00054/11]] Ask the President about the latest political developments. The question is posed by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.110.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Most honourable President, on 27 September we were given a very clear democratic mandate by the people of Catalonia, and on 9 November, with a solemn declaration, we ratified our commitment to make this mandate possible and we wanted to lay down very clear, very explicit, dueres in a very determined period of time. And I refer to the dues that consist of both the same statement of 9 November, from the beginning of the process to independence, such as the dues that consist of its annex, dues that have to be made from this Parliament and dues that the Government has to do. For what he does to Parliament, we understand that we can say that we are there where we intended to be and in the time we predicted it. We set up the Constituent Process Study Commission, which is already on the way; moreover, it is coordinating with all the main entities because, in a similar way, there may be a great deal of civic participation in this process. We formed the joint ponies of three very truncated, very basic laws to be on condition of becoming a state. And the three questions are working to the point that, yesterday, a first text of them was presented, so, because it can already be debated in the plenary and can be processed. And now we are in a position, therefore, to be able to discuss, to agree on some assumptions that give an impulse and guarantee the creation of state structures that allow us to do many of the things that are now being demanded, an impulse to all external action, an impulse to all that is the process, and also an impulse to a social plan that must, at all times, accompany this process. Therefore, we understand that our dues to Parliament are making them; we still have a lot of work to do, but the determination is total. And more when we're getting over it, so, many and many traverses by the side, some of the groups here, and why not say so? therefore, as a part of the threats and the different actions of the State. But our determination is total. Therefore, we understand that, from the Parliament of Catalonia, we are completing what on November 9th we were going to compromise. The question, President, is in the case of the dues that were close to him and that was close to doing to the government, which is what you value as regards his compliment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.111.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.112.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. The honourable Member, indeed, we feel fully bound by the agreements adopted, and so much so that, although we have a deadline of sixty days to present the state of implementation of all the measures contained in the annexes to Resolution 1/XI, instead of doing so on June 10, which is the deadline, we will do so this week; and this week the Parliament will take account of all the concrete actions that this Government has already done – it has already done – in addition to a parliamentary compromise; and a compromise that is, in fact, enough for you to sign a few things, but that it has some red sons of which we have not left behind and that the analytics of the document that we are going to enter into will enable us to prove, basically, with the understanding that the Parliament has in place, either in the context of the Council, or in the context of the Council, that it has, in fact, not only in the context of the Council's work. This government governs and develops commitments in the field of social rights, as I said; in the field of external action..., or have they not seen the Romeva Councillor returning, or myself, returning to the world explaining the country and explaining what this country intends to do? Or have you not seen the information that we are transferring to all agents about the measures we take in the area of the own archive? Or the measures we are taking in the field of transparency? Or, I repeat, the explicit commitments in the area of refugees? This is all done, and they can touch them. Now, it is also true that many of the measures that depend on or are based on that statement require a presuppositional statement. And it's not demagogic, that's right: if you don't have money, you can't do a lot of the measures we've taken; if there's no money, we can't reduce waiting lists; if there's no money, we can't expand the minimum income; if there's no money, we can't do outside action, or we can't help it, and we can't hire teachers for the most complex choices. Therefore, the government is doing its dues, a part of Parliament has done so far. What is very important is that if we want to complete the work the dues that remain to be done in Parliament, as at least, not only do you do, but as at least allow us to do them and process the assumptions that we have presented to the chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.113.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 7/2011 of 27 July 2011 on fiscal and financial measures]] [[202-00025/11]] The second point of the order of the day is: processing in one reading of the proposed law amending Law 7/2011, of 27 July, of fiscal and financial measures. In accordance with Rule 135.2 of the Rules of Procedure, all parliamentary groups have signed this bill so that it is dealt with in a single reading. Following what is laid down in Article 135, the single reading procedure must be approved by the plenary of the Parliament. We shall therefore proceed, first of all, to the vote on the single reading of this bill. It is understood that the affirmative votes are in favour of single reading, and the negative ones, against. Next, let's go vote on this proposal. The vote's on. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If it seems to them... they're telling me that they don't work... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, then. We repeat the vote. The vote begins. The single-reading procedure was approved by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. We shall then proceed to the debate, which, in accordance with Rule 135.3 of the Rules of Procedure, is to be substantiated according to the standards laid down for the totality debate; at the end of the debate, the joint initiative will be put to a vote only. To fix the position of the parliamentary groups, has the word Mr David Mejía, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Widow's remorse.]] In any case, Mr. Mejía, I hope they're going to... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Please, do you want to go out in silence and in a hurry? Otherwise, we can't continue the session. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.114.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, opposition saves the last governments of the Generality of its mismanagement. This could be the perfect headline for the subject we are discussing today. We are bringing to the plenary a proposal to amend a law of 2011 which, with this, will have changed three times. And you will ask, with a sense of consistency and consistency: if it has changed three times it will be because the text has become rich, it has improved, there are proposed updates. So nothing more than reality – nothing more than reality – do you know what the reason for all these changes and all these changes is? It is the fact that the governments we have had since 2011 in the Generalitat have not managed effectively and effectively the objective that precisely pursued this law. We will support this proposal for change, obviously, and we have signed it as well as proposers, but we will not do it for you, gentlemen of the Government – we will not do it for you – but we will do it precisely because the interested ones do not cease to understand what they are doing for the work done. And I want to pay back to 2011, which was the beginning of all this odyssey, in which it was decided to pass the skills of the ICEC, the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises, to the Office of Support to the Cultural Initiative, the OSIC, and for this transfer it was given a period of time of two years to transfer all the aids and all the skills from one organization to another. And when they saw that for these two years they did not have time to do so, they extended up to two times that term, and now, in 2016, which is ending that term again, we ask for another extension, another modification, that up until 2019. It is to say that a delay that was to be of two years results that, with the least – with the least – there will be seven years to do it. If we look at the objectives of the OSIC in its own web page, we will see that it says: « The creation of the OSIC responds – and I read literally – to the will of the Department of Culture to introduce a substantial change in the model of management of the policies of promotion to simplify the processing and achieve greater efficiency, greater transparency and agility of response and a more efficient service for the citizen. Do you really believe that you are fulfilling your expectations? Really, do you think you're getting your goals? Because I don't think so, honestly. You are in a lot of haste in many things – in many things. They're in a hurry to declare independence in div_mesos, they're in a hurry to do their own thing, they're in a hurry to disconnect from Espanya, but then it turns out that to pass some of the skills of one organism that we have skills to another are seven years to do it – as at least, seven years ago, we'll see. I believe that the lack of credibility of this government is quite clear. But I wouldn't like it – I wouldn't like it – to finish my intervention without talking about the forms used, the government; some forms, let's say, little orthodox, right? , who tried to play – and I say it in his own way, who tried to play – with the different opposition groups not once, no, twice, tell us that we had to sign this change since the rest of the groups had already done it, when it was lied, when it wasn't true, it wasn't real. So, that's to say, they're not only a little effective in their management, but they're not telling the truth to achieve their goals. It is also true, honourable Members and Members, that neither surprise us, since their independent relationship is plagued by falsehoods and mean truths. As I said earlier, we have signed as proponents of this change, but I want it to be clear – I want it to be clear – that it is the responsible opposition that will solve the mismanagement of the current and previous governments since 2011. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.115.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr Rafel Bruguera, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.116.0	Thank you, President. With your permission, I will intervene briefly from the escho. The Law 7/2011, of 27 July, on fiscal and financial measures, effectively created the Office of Support for the Cultural Initiative, known as the OSIC, and attributed it, among others, the function of approving the bases and calls for assistance in cultural matters, as well as processing and resolving the procedures for granting these aids. Nevertheless, an additional provision of this kind maintained the functions of the OSIC at the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises, which we know as the ICEC, for two years and in a transitory way. After these two years, the 2014 Law of General Tax Measures extended this transitional period for two years, which ended on the 13th generation of Encany, from this year 2016, at which time the OSIC should have definitively assumed the approval of the bases and the calls for cultural aid and the resolution of these. But this has not been done and a void has been created, and a legal uncertainty has also been created that makes it impossible to summon these cultural aids from this year's generation. Today we find ourselves with another extension, we hope that it will be the final one, that it will widen, as has already been said, until the end of 2019. The Socialist Group will, ladies and gentlemen, be voting in favour of this law, but it will do so in order not to harm third parties who are not guilty. But we would like to stop manifesting and we would like to say in the parliamentary session the desire, and denounce the government's desire and lack of forecast on this issue. And even more, the first text of the law's proposal to pass on to the signature was full of errors, while we're talking about a law with a single article, a single article law. For example, and just to mention one, there was no date of entry into force of the law. And it was precisely this group, the Socialist Group, which warned of these errors, that came into contact, both with the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes as with the Government, to correct these errors, which have finally been corrected, effectively, and converted into the text we are debating. Well, well in the text we're debating, no, because yesterday the Legal Servants of Parliament, the Iletrats, modified the motius exposition; so, and this last one..., I mean, I don't know if we signed it, I don't know, but in any case, it's a modification that came to us yesterday, the day before the plenary. Therefore, indeed, there has been a desire, there has been a very clear lack of willingness on the part of the Government and of prioritization of an important issue which affects many people and, I repeat, by political responsibility, by means of cooperation and cooperation because things in these countries are moving forward in a normal and regular way, we will vote in favour of it. And we have obviously signed this bill, and we will vote for it, but it seems to us that it was our obligation also to manifest what we said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.117.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, there's the word "Mrs. Gemma Lienas" from Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.118.0	Thank you, President. For the volts of Sant Jordi we received an electronic mail saying – and I read it textually – "The 13th generation of 2016– or so, more than three months before– "the extension ended so that the help of the ICC was passed on to the OSIC. Therefore, because the aids can be processed, it is necessary to extend this term. In short, and with my words: the government had made salty, and the fact that all the parliamentary groups were intimidating is because the entities can collect and the government doesn't make a bad paper. Our group, therefore, accepted political responsibility, because it seemed to us that we could not let go of the fact that, due to a problem of government desire, entities are left without help. We signed it, however, with many reticences. And why? Because there's a whole story behind this one. I'll make them five cents. The Government of Convergence and Union created, with the law accompanying assumptions of 2011, the OSIC, the Support Office for the Cultural Initiative. Supposedly the OSIC had to be a unique window to manage all the cultural aids. It could not have been a bad idea; it could have been a solution to simplify processes and many other questions. The problem is that the decision was taken without debate and, therefore, without agreement of all other groups. Later changes were made, among others, to the terms for these aids, until then managed by the IECC, the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises, were passed to the OSIC, this so-called single window for the application of subsidies. The term ended in the 13th generation without the change having been executed by the new government, sure by leaving and possibly also by interests. And it's that this unique window, which at the moment is not so, was an orchestrated operation to dismantle Conca's competition in terms of help and creative subsidies. But once the Conca was dismantled, there was no interest or interest in turning the OSIC into the single window of culture. Counselor Mascarell had a key role to play in placing culture in the conceptual framework of the economy and the business, which is why the policies he deployed – and which are still deployed now – were lethal. On the other hand, it must be borne in mind that neither have they represented any more agility, nor any less formalities or more transparency, all the contrary, entailed more delay, more demands, less subsidies, and the world, with the requirement to bear the interests of late payments. Still a nyap. In its day, the Grup Parlamentari d'Initiativa per Catalunya Verds e Esquerra Unita e Alternativa already said that it had not created a single window, but an artifact so that the councillor could control those subsidies that remained out of his control. It turned out, therefore, ungrateful to sign this bill only to save the government's face when in the past we opposed it because, I insist, we did not consider it an integral law, because there was no debate and therefore no agreement was sought. And unfortunately time has given us reason. I repeated, we signed by responsibility, in order to avoid them, to entities, the consequences of the irresponsible action of the government of Mas with the support of Convergence and Unity and Republican Left. A government that in the cultural land has been managerial and incompetent. Now, on a change from the guarantee gesture that we have all groups, we demand this government a change, both in the country's cultural policies as in its relationship with entities and businesses, and we demand this debate that is missing on the single window and on the transfer of ECCI's help to OSIC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.119.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, there is the words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.120.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, all parliamentary groups have signed this proposal to amend the 2011 Law on Fiscal and Financial Measures, and someone might think that we don't need to make a big debate because it's a very important issue. However, they will allow me to make a couple of brief points, but I think they are necessary. In the first place, it was said, the approval of this modification will allow the extension of the competence of the ICC to approve the bases and calls for aid. Therefore, it will be possible to continue giving grants, aids, to businesses and cultural entities. Look, we may or may not agree with the presupposition for culture – we're not and we don't think the counselor is very happy either – but this is a matter that we can do more. And we may agree or not on how and to whom these aids are given, that in some cases we do not agree, but now it is to avoid the legal uncertainty that could affect some companies or entities if this law change is not approved. Members of the parliamentary groups want to make righteous payments for sinners, and that is why we will all vote for them today. The sins – the sins – of the government, the sin of the laissez-faire, the sin of the wrong priorities, do not have to pay others, and for this reason today we support the fact that this change is approved. And one_second point, we are talking about aid, subsidies to the cultural sector, and no one escapes that the nationalist governments we have suffered in Catalonia in the last thirty-six years, which have converted Spain's richest region into the most expensive bureaucracy in Europe, have used the subsidies to reward and punish, and thus conform, creating all an associated network favorable to its cause, at the same time as the silence of any dissent is encouraged. When politics intervene in the world of culture to reward and punish, culture ceases to be plural, and when it ceases to be plural, it also ceases to be excellent, because cultural sectors stop seeking quality and specialise in satisfying the distribution of subsidies. And that's all I'm saying because last week we experienced a sad and unprecedented event in this Parliament's Committee on Culture. These parties which do not open the doors of this house, from the house of democracy, to a condemnation for belonging to terrorist organization, closed these very doors to a Barcelona cultural centre; a cultural centre which does not receive subsidies and which, for the sake of being free of any political link, makes for those who see pluralism as a threat and not as a wealth. These parliamentary groups vetoed, banned this cultural centre from appearing before the committee, and did so without giving arguments, shames, but they did so: they censored a part of Catalan culture. Finally, we will vote in favour of this change because we do not want them to pay just for sinners, but we may need to reflect: if we want a first-rate Catalan culture, we will need less subsidies and more freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.121.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Mireia Boya, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.122.0	Thank you, President. There will be some here because it will be very fast. Let us begin, by allusions, by explaining why we are voting against it. A cultural centre that speaks of this regime imposed on Catalans, that speaks of the adoption of Catalan society, to me it seems to me that it was tendency and even tath fascism that democracy, and for that reason we will vote against, and without any type of shame and without any type of pendiment. That said, it was the Office of the Superior now the Auer Culture Initiative assumed in 2013, in all stretch in 2014, it is necessary to approve the bases and is called for help and to manage these aids; but, still, after the creation of this Direction Generau de Créacion e Empreses Culturaus, that it is integrated so much Subdirection Generau de Promocion Culturau com er Institut Catalan des Empreses Culturaus. As a result, in a context of your social emergency situation, which requires the rationalisation of your administration to maximise your resources for the benefit of grants and aid, and that you do not have any minutes per duplicity, that you explicitly acknowledge in today's situation, that you do not understand only a cop mès eth Govèrn, and particularly eth Department of Culture, intends to extend this situation to others in 2019. This is a request for extension, and we have a mensprètz that is all cultural agents, and it brings to light a code that was incapacitated by this previous political direction and that you are now in the Department of Culture. However, if you can give us the necessary help and subsidies, and of all necessity you have changed, and for that reason I will have the opportunity to do so, then do not contribute to the precarization of this cultural sector, which I have already shown to be a bad sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.123.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr Antoni Balasch, of the Group of Parliamentarians Junts for Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.124.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, well, it has been explained, therefore, the convenience of why this change, which is not just an extension. And, therefore, we are talking about a prorogation that is very suitable for a sector which has already been affected by the crisis; a cultural sector which has been affected by the VAT of 21 per cent; a sector which has been affected by the lack of sponsorship, a law of sponsorship which is state competence and which has long been claimed and which is not above, and therefore in a very precarious situation. And a sector, too, which accounts for 5 per cent of the employed population, some 170,000 people, and which goes, roughly, at 4 per cent of GDP. Therefore, a small number of people and, therefore, a very large sector to take into account. That said, I'll make reference, a little bit, to some comments that have been made. Some refer in general to mismanagement and to the extension of the term... we're talking only not about management, but we're extending a term. So let's not touch the law. Someone was referring to the fact that the law was wrong. It's not the law. Let us extend the deadline so that we can facilitate the subsidies that are planned and prepared, because the management has been correct but..., to be able to do so legally. It has been said here that we will not do it for you. The laws are not fan for a government, they are fan to help the sectors; therefore, we agree, it is good that they do not for us, it is to be done for a cultural sector that is much – much – needed. It was also mentioned here that the government had made salt. I... I'd like us to do a little bit of a step back, and look at what happened this past year and how it worked: when they called up a new election with an aggravation for the middle, with a constitution of a government that cost what it cost, and that is active and that is implemented when it can be done, and that, therefore, all this only takes into account. I'm just saying, instead of going into the pim-pam-pum, let's look at the whole context at the time level and... to fit it all in, okay? That said, we... simply say that the OSIC, as a positive factor, provides the unique window of subsidies; it was a positive factor to facilitate..., with positive visibility to facilitate the sector. But that said, it was also seen, while the evaluation was being done during this time, that they appeared for the middle needed and they appeared for the middle contexts that make a complexity of integration appear as functional as telematics. All this, this complexity, beyond the unique and specific treatment required by this type of help, and beyond a very specific level of knowledge, therefore, generate a complexity that makes these laws not able to adapt very quickly. In some other way, we would say that this sector, the cultural sector, at the ICEC, which is represented throughout the world of culture by sectors..., that these sectors, therefore, have approved these aids, they have involved, they have generated good feedback and that, at the time of reforming it, they must agree with this feedback that has been generated, they must also take part in the elaboration of the bases, but also with concrete proposals. And the time to make a new merger, a new legal framework, is not a very easy process, but it has to take account of the sector, with these parameters that I gave. So, thank you for all the pleas, so participation, because what we want today is that the culture sector did not stand for these laws, but these subsidies, prepared and proposed by the same sector, and that this regulation that says that the ICC "keeps the functions of approving the bases and calls for aid to cultural enterprises and of managing these aids until 31 December 2019 can serve, if not, because culture can go beyond calls, not just with the bases, but also with the help and also with the same cultural sector, involved in these decisions. This is the will of all the papers, and we will vote in favour of this amendment proposal. Many thanks, President; many thanks, deputies and deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.125.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed to the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 123 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Draft law on the organisation of public and recreational activities (debate of totality)]] [[200-00004/11]] The third item on the agenda is a total debate on the Draft Ordering Law for Public and Recreational Show Activities. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules, the initiative is presented on behalf of the Government of the Generality, Mr. Jordi Jané, Councillor d'Interior. [[Widow's remorse.]] Ask them to leave in a hurry so we can continue the session, please. [[Pause.]] Please, I'm in a hurry, and I'm quiet. [[Pause.]] Counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.126.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I present before the House today the Draft Law on the Ordering of Public and Recreational Show Activities. First of all, I would like to thank the various parliamentary groups that have not been presented, from their side, for their totality of devolution, and I would also like to thank the former officials of the Interior Department and the deputies and deputies of the last legislature, in which the processing of this bill had already begun. + In this sense, I would like to recall that, then, in the debate on the question, a broad consensus had already been generated on this new regulation. Congressman Lluís Guinó, who was a party, also had the opportunity to confirm me. And it is that, in fact, this Law Ordering Project for public and recreational entertainment activities that we present today assumes an update of the current legal framework for regulating activities. A necessary update to adapt the legislation to the needs and current situation of economic activity. The new bill completely replaces the current legislation. Specifically, it will repeal Law 11/2009 of 6 July, on administrative regulation of public performances and recreational activities. And this total derogation will be made with the aim of correcting those aspects that have been detected with the years that would have to be changed. Thus, the mark that defines the bill fits the requirements of Law 16/2015, simplifying the administrative activity of the Administration of the Generality and of the local governments of Catalonia and the impulses of economic activity. In this way, we compliment the European legislation which obliges the simplification of administrative procedures with the possibility, with the aim of boosting the same economic activity. The purpose of this bill is to establish the legal regime and administrative intervention applicable to public entertainment activities, recreational activities and public establishments and open spaces where these activities can be completed. The bill clearly has a technical character and has been drafted, and I want to put it in value, with the direct participation of the sectors involved: assemblies, parliaments, business associations of the oci or professional colleges, among others. The initiative we are presenting, this bill, is inspired by five guiding principles, which I pass on to you in detail. First guiding principle, that of public security. This principle implies that we must always ensure that the performance of the services of the oci, the performances... that are always in a security environment. And this is required of all sectors involved: the participants, the users, the organizers. The objective is to try whenever the performances or activities do not pose a risk to the people involved or to third parties. According to principles, administrative simplification. We intend to adapt to the objective already set by the European right: the right of minimum intervention and simplification. This is the general character of the pre-communication regime, which removes obstacles to the exercise of economic activity. It is for this reason that this draft law regulates how to reduce administrative burdens, with a very clear objective: to encourage business activity in this sector, since excessive bureaucracy can often be an impediment to all entrepreneurs who want to give up projects. Third principle, the principle of peaceful coexistence. The objective in this case is to encourage and reinforce the inspiring values of coexistence between participants of the different recreational activities and public performances, a coexistence that must be with the conjunction of the city. In particular, this peaceful coexistence must be directed towards those people who live around places where these activities are due to end or are located. This principle is also one of the basic objectives of this project, and can be summed up as respect for the right to rest and salvation of people. More concretely: in order to achieve this peaceful coexistence, the draft law establishes a follow-up of obligations that must be completed by the holders of the establishments and the organizers of public performances and recreational activities; for example, to complete the timetables of initiation and completion of the activities, to respect the maximum permitted extent, to prevent the public from coming out of the establishments, not to generate acoustic contamination and to complete the municipal ordinances at all times. Fourth principle. The fourth guiding principle of this bill is the promotion of activities and services of quality; it would be quality, promoting this quality, quality of activities and objective establishments of order. And in this we encourage the creation of labels and other quality distinctions; in this case, the Q10 quality designation, which can be obtained, this name, those establishments that credit aspects such as: compliment of special safety requirements, cohabitation values, quality of installations or incorporation into certain assumptions of certain artistic or cultural values. Five-and-beginners. The fifth and final principle of this bill is legal certainty. The point is that the new standard is easy to understand, clear and simple, also making it easier to interpret its application in a predictable way. The aim, therefore, of this new legislation is that it is fully understandable and accepted by institutional, legal and economic operators, and that it is under the general principle of minimum intervention, a principle that requires the choice of the least restrictive measure to respect the activities of individuals and to always motivate the adoption of the most restrictive measures when these are necessary to protect the general interest. With this bill there is a considerable degree of administrative simplification, which is essential for the proper functioning of a good public administration, which is more transparent and efficient for the needs of citizens. The draft law places objective security in a first plan, making compatible the principle of freedom of establishment with the necessary security conditions to be presented by the establishments and activities. I mean, it goes deeper into those aspects that guarantee what we understand for sure. Next, I want to point out that the new regulation clearly specifies what its scope is. To do so, it precisely defines the activities under its intervention regime, the rights, obligations and administrative burdens, to which matters are specifically included in its competence, and those which are excluded from it. For example, the bill expressly excludes acts and celebrations of a venenal and associated character with a medium distance that is not due to term in establishments open to the public and whenever they do not involve risk; it also excludes sports activities and those related to the game and bets, which have specific own rules, and it also excludes all those festive manifestations that consist of the Catalonian Festival. One of the novelties of the bill is also that of the empowerment of municipal autonomy and the administrative skills that municipalities have in this area. Many of the Members of this Parliament also participate, as mayors, as governors, as governors, as joint governors; they form part of regional councils; they know of this willingness because they respond to a petition to strengthen municipal autonomy, local autonomy, in this area. And that is why, concretely, with this bill, it establishes how, obviously, the assemblies can pass ordinances in this area, they can adopt urban planning measures, which will be binding on the location of the establishments opened to the public regulated for this bill. These urban measures can set concrete forecasts with the objective that the establishments have the most suitable location possible. It also recognizes for the municipality the possibility of resuming and verifying prior communications, filing complaints, holding open public establishments and, obviously, sanctioning and inspecting such establishments, recreational activities and public performances under municipal law. In this municipal area, I would like to highlight the importance that the draft law gives to the regulation of criteria such as adequacy to the urban environment, to civic coexistence relationships; adequacy to the environment, to the protection of artistic, historical heritage; adequacy to the protection of minors, to the public order or to the security of persons and goods. Finally, I would like to highlight the broad consensus of the sector towards this draft law which I have now presented before the plenary session of the Parliament of Catalonia. This bill of laws completes a legal empire: to update our legislation to adapt it to European directives. But, beyond this empire, the bill establishes a three-way balance; a three-way balance between security guarantees, citizen coexistence and administrative simplification; it is a potential, as I said earlier, for municipal competitions, and it guarantees with nine measures the quality of the establishments, with this distinction Q10, and the activities that in this area are developing in Catalonia. Finally, I would like to offer from the Department of the Interior to all those who will be present, members of the delegation of this bill, to offer them the full cooperation of the Department of the Interior; to thank the proposals already in advance, the partial points to the joint, which will certainly formulate to us with the aim of improving the bill. We're completely open to listening to everyone, even... And I am accompanied, therefore, by the staff, the Deputy Director General, in this case also the Director General of Administration of Security, the same secretary general of the department, they are accompanying us in this plenary, and this also allows me to thank the good task that has been done by the staff of the Department of Interior in the elaboration of a draft law that is technical, and as a technician also requires, on occasion, a greater precision at the time of defining the supply of the regulation, the supply of the joint, its contents. And, therefore, they also pay attention to this technical aspect of the draft law, which is why they told them that we are open to be able to receive so many contributions, papers... as well as being able to attend from the Department of Interior, the most specialized people in this field, being able to attend to the deputies, the deputies, who therefore require some supplementary explanation or that they want, from the Department of Interior, some additional information to respect. We are convinced, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that this must contribute to this legislature – yes, Mr Guinó – we can finish it with this approved bill. The sector is waiting for him. These improvements, this administrative simplification, this empowerment of municipal powers, this boost of entrepreneurial activity in this area, this greater clarity in definitions, in the field of application, in legal certainty to know how it is interpreted..., all this, dubious sense, ladies and gentlemen, if they do good work, that they will not doubt that they will do it, to pose, to commission, will make some of this Parliament make a good contribution to this sector and we can pass a new regulation that is highly demanded from the society's board. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.127.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. As long as no totality statements have been submitted, we will now proceed to the turn of interventions to fix positions. In the first place, has the word the lady Maria Francisca Valle, of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.128.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor, to all the assistants. Is there anyone in this room who can say that he has never attended a circus, a theater, a music room, a concert or even the town square of his village to see a music band or to listen to at the popular parties? I dare say no. And, therefore, we know, at least this sector from the public point of view that we are. And none of us here, therefore, can be indifferent to the bill that is being debated today. This bill, as the Councillor has already said, has begun to be dealt with in the previous legislature and, as we have also heard from the Councillor, it is a bill that has very good intentions, that is, but the truth is that we think that apart from good intentions it is full of inaccuracies, because it is very focused on the economic sector by neglecting the associative sector and with an excessive referral towards a future regulation. This project is certainly necessary and modernised, too, by adapting the sector to European legislation. Our group has not tabled an amendment to the whole because we believe that this law, well-worked, can be a useful tool for both the public and recreational entertainment sector, understood as an economic and business sector, and for the non-profit associative sector. The sector of public and recreational entertainment, in its economic and business sphere, generates a significant number of jobs; therefore, we must encourage it – this must be so – and we must, in order to do so, facilitate their access to entrepreneurs, because it is also a way of promoting employment. But since this is an important motivation, we cannot forget the people who, let us say in quotes, "are suffering the sometimes unpleasant consequences of the exercise of these activities: they are the neighbors who rest. That is why it is necessary to look for ways to combine the right to have fun and the right to rest. And all these objectives, moreover, as the Councillor has also said, must necessarily be accompanied by the most important aspect for all participants, which is security. Ciutadans is willing to listen to all the sectors concerned and to propose amendments with the aim of integrating all sensitivities, improving drafting and providing legal certainty, concreteness and content to this law. Of the five guiding principles that make up this law, as the counselor has explained to us, we will enter into some of the most relevant, specific aspects. It is, really..., proposed a great advance that is long demanded by entrepreneurs, which is the administrative simplification and the minimal intervention of the Administration. It is a question of implementing a change of habits in the administration, bringing them into line with European law, as the Councillor has also pointed out, which is the Bolkestein directive, and which also guarantees, on the other hand, what is the unity of the market. We will pass, with this law – if approved – as a general rule, from the need to obtain the license or authorization in order to be able to exercise an activity to the prior communication as a general rule; leaving the authorization, the license, as an exception, for those activities that have a greater risk. And all of that is complemented by administrative simplification and a single window. A priori, we welcome and support this measure, because it will certainly create more jobs, encourage entrepreneurs and organisers who want to start an activity. But if this measure is not to remain in a nice declaration of intent, we must be aware that we will have to work together with the municipalities and provide them with resources so that the rule can be effective. And, in addition, complete some shortcomings that this bill has, such as the lack of time to resolve files that require the license. Because without deadlines we know that the dossiers are eternal, with the consequent damage that this will bring to the entrepreneurs. Another good idea of this bill is that of peaceful coexistence between the subjects who contribute to these shows and the rest of the citizens. Coexistence and civicism must be guaranteed as a basic right of all, but the fact is that we have not been able to see that guarantee in the law, we do not see any concrete measures for it to be carried out. And what we have perceived is a brief reference in the preamble to it, but this aspect, if it is not to be diluted in a good purpose, must be worked out more thoroughly and refined. And we come to the high point of this law, which is security, security on its double side. Legal certainty. Legal certainty..., if this law seeks to give legal certainty we think that it really does not achieve it, that it generates uncertainty, that there are confusions of interpretation, that there are collectives who do not know if they are or will be inside or outside this law; there are entities, even, that are those that make popular parties, that are popular culture, but that are not included either in the Festive Heritage Catalogue; then, for example, these musical bands, where do we put them? Do we put them within this law? It does not seem appropriate to us, it does not seem to us that they should be regulated by this law. And we say that there is no such legal certainty because the weight of this law rests on a future regulation, a regulation that will have to determine such relevant aspects as which associative acts will be included in the law, the eligibility requirements of access control personnel, the establishments that must have such personnel or even the conditions of prevention and safety in the event of fire, environmental conditions, hygiene, public health, among many others. It is a law that, for us, is born ambiguous. It has little content; it is a framework law, for us, because it will only be developed with a future regulation created by the government in office. So we ask ourselves: what legal certainty can this law give you if we leave it so inconcrete? What legal certainty would entrepreneurs have with this law if they do not know whether they can be inside or not? That is why we believe that we must also work on this aspect and make the most of it. And as far as personal security is concerned, it is a fundamental pillar that must be protected in any case. It is not good, as we all know, to legislate hotly – we all know that – but now, with the perspective that gives us time, we must legislate remembering Rocío, Cristina, Katia, Bethlehem, María Teresa, who were between seventeen and twenty years old and who died now about four years ago in the well-known Madrid Arena. And that was due to an excess of effort and other irregularities, such as the almost non-existent health services at the time. We have a responsibility to legislate, but only by stepping on the real world and being aware that there are lives of human beings, with names and surnames, that can be at stake, so only then can we make laws that are rigorous and that are safe. And in this sense we have to be very attentive to the recommendations made to us by the specialists – because the fire brigades, the security corps and other technicians – a good system of evacuation and fire prevention for massive activities, prior controls and maintenance; everything – everything – what I'm saying and many other things are decisive to avoid it. Finally, I would also like to make a brief reference to the need to study carefully the problem of the sale and resale of tickets; it is also necessary to consider the regulation of popular holidays – as I have already pointed out – that are held on the street, and we also miss greater regulation within this law for people with functional diversity and accessibility problems. In conclusion, the law seems interesting to us, it seems worth working on and striving to improve the, and Ciutadans will be there to do this job. We will support the law and put forward the amendments that we believe are appropriate. Because if Catalans want to be leaders of reforms in Spain and have a defined weight in Europe, we must build laws with good foundations, that avoid confusion in their application and interpretation and that are effective, rigorous and secure. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.129.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr Carles Castillo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.130.0	Good morning, good morning, everybody. Thank you, President. Greetings to those in charge of the Department of Interior who are present in the first place. From the outset, we have not presented a statement to the whole, therefore, because we are generally in favour of passing on the bill and replacing the law in force in 2009. It is a complex law, it is a law with technical complexities – it has already been said – but much more political, too, than it may seem; there is an important reference, there is more important reference than it seems. We see it necessary above all from the point of view of the affected sectors and believe that it is the simplification of some procedures that prevent the practice, at present, activities linked to the oci and to the spectacles of very traditional and usual type to our towns and cities. Experience tells us that there has been a great deal going on and we think that it can be compatible with the necessary and required security in an act of public concurrence, with the possibility that these activities are kept in the popular domain. And, therefore, they can continue to be organized by some of our multiple cultural and generalist entities. Many assemblies have had problems with the law of 2009 and with its rules, it is true. And, therefore, it is essential to set itself up in the modification to try to adapt it more to reality. Already the entrance notice also that we will take full advantage of the transit of papers to introduce corrective measures on what they are planting again, is to say, what they are planting once more, if I may, in this bill of law. And I say we introduce it again, once again, because we also think that they have lost an opportunity not to take advantage of the way it was given, that it was produced around this law in the past term, in the past legislature. It is a pity that no text has been presented that already takes account of the debate and does not take into account all the appearances of experts and those affected. In fact, in order not to mention, it does not take into account the views of the Republican Left, party integrated into the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes and which gives support to the Government, some of them interesting and enriching the text. It's not that we worry a lot, Members and Members, because if they can't, we can't, those things that we think are interesting, we can get them back without any problems. But we do want to put forward an express manifesto... because with all the pleas, an opportunity has been lost to advance parliamentary work and bring to debate a clearer text that is more in agreement with the will expressed by this Parliament. And they chose to start from scratch, to present the same project that he presented, at his time, the Democratic Union of Catalonia – his partners until four days ago –; calcat. So, say one thing: either the opinion of Esquerra Republicana in the government has not been taken into account, or Esquerra Republicana has changed its opinion with respect to the text they are presenting to us, because it is precisely the same text that was taken from the previous mandate and that Esquerra intended to "cry to it in terms and the title of liberal; certainly, it said that it was derived from that famous directive – which has already been said –: the Frankenstein directive, if I may. It is also true that they did not stick to the wheels of parliamentary processing, as they did in the 2009 processing of the companies and companies of Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, which presented an issue to the totality, in which they add, by the way, among other things, an excess of remissions to the regulation. You were right to criticize her because, according to you, there were fifty remissions of the law to the rules, and, like legislative techniques, it's not that it's not very recommenable, it's that it's an overly authentic. And it also entails a difficult discomfort at the time of following the law, both for legal operators and for the same citizenry, that the same councillor stressed that we are willing to get directly to the citizenry. Mr. Turull – who is not here now –, if I don't get it wrong, because I wasn't there at all, he came to quote the same count of Romanes, when he said to him: "Let them – the deputies – « make the laws, that I will already make the regulations. So, well, now there's – what we're counting –, in the text they're presenting, some seventy-eight references to the rule; 50 percent more than there was to the law in force; that they were criticizing at this point – I've told them quite rightly. I change the subject and, once the inconsistencies and differences in parliamentary attitudes have been clarified, I turn to questions about the foundations of the bill. The councilman was talking about reducing administrative burdens. I believe that we all want administrative simplification, but we are concerned about the impact that the general principle of prior communication without initial control can have on small and medium-sized groups. Because when you put all the controls and verification elements behind you to have started the activity and with the positive silence, a series of changes in the managed processes and, at last, in the organization of the assemblies. We doubt that many of these are prepared to face this new charge... [[Funnel veils]] – very good –; a load more that can be placed on the scale of local administrations, which may not have the necessary tools to deal with it and would leave the law without real applicability. And you can't make laws that aren't applicable to reality. That's why we think we need to take more into account, yet, the view of the municipal world in this law and have a view of what is the day-to-day of our gatherings, offended by the crisis and by an economic distribution system that has deprived them. It's not enough to talk in abstracts and in the theory of municipal autonomy, Counselor, because we want it to be a tool that actually does the service that needs to be done and is not converted into another text in front of the gallery. This law – in this, yes, we agree and agree – must cover a series of objectives, which are: first and foremost, the safety and salvation of people, of which it participates in any activity of public competition. Everyone who participates in an activity with a multitude of people must have the assurance that there is public control of security on the part of the administrations, the tranquility that if any problem happens, this is minimally predicted. We are already aware that zero risk does not exist, so let's minimize it to the maximum. Two, ensure coexistence and citizenship. It is necessary to match the right of people to enjoy their freedom, to get out of the way, even so; but it is necessary to match this right with the right of the rest, even those who can live close to where the activity is developed, to rest and to be reassured at home as well. Three, and very important: to stimulate culture with an impetus to artistic activities of live music and to the free area in a Mediterranean country like we are, which lives in the street. And it is also eager and recognizable to all those popular cultural expression activities, so glaring in Catalonia, and that it must contemplate the law in its abyss. In this very sense, we need to further study this system of cataloging and exception in the field of application they propose, and open it to a multitude of expressions of popular culture that are not considered in this catalog, in this proposal. Ensure that all equal festive events are treated equally and that it does not only depend on whether you have completed an administered process of inclusion in a catalogue. We believe that all acts cannot be treated equally, as the proposal does, regardless of whether they are organized with a profit or public character. The rule is that she thinks of a business activity with a strong commercial character, and so she continually referred to it, and she doesn't correspond to reality. As for intervention in the environment, as the law directly establishes which activities are considered to be of moderate environmental impact and which are considered to be of low environmental impact, because interest and citizenship have legal certainty. And it is vital that the law takes into account, too, much at the time of applying its standards to restoration in an extra way as envisaged, because more extensive and more specific regulation is needed. Think of the reality of our towns and cities, think of those small cafes or fringes that have only two or three taulets. There are standards laid down here that with the character of substitutes it would not apply. For what it does to the fact that the Generalita regains the competence to examine the access controllers, we are concerned about the period of time between the realization of the training and the examination, and we believe that we will somehow have to guarantee some type of periodicity in the realization of these tests. Another difficult problem can be given with the Government's will to prohibit the resale without the authorization of the organizer even though this resale does not involve negotiations. We believe it is an attack on the collaborative economy, as it does not give way to situations in which someone has bought the entrance and which, for any reason of force majeure, cannot attend it. No less than a 19_per_cent– 19_per_cent– of the input interchannels produced in the network have exactly this motiu– 19_per_cent. And we think it's worth taking this into consideration and not wanting to go one more time after the governments put doors to the camp in the matter of the Internet. We have, in short – and I finish – the will to improve as far as possible this bill preserving everything that is a good idea – which is also plentiful, if I may, counselor – and, above all, we will claim the municipalist view of the project thinking primarily of the multitude of medium and small gatherings in Catalonia and in which they already have enough problems as to ask more questions from their scales. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.131.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Mr. Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.132.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, not all laws or initiatives coming from the past legislature are good..., or not all good – I'm sure they have good things. And before this reality is where we find ourselves. Why are we here? We are here because there was a law – there is –, the Law 11/2009, of administrative regulation of public performances and recreational activities, that the current government, and also the previous one, thought it appropriate to modify it and improve it. With this idea we agree, and that is why we have not presented a statement to the whole, even though in this project there were reasons for it to have been possible to do so. And, therefore, this is a first message: we have not submitted an item to the totality because with this text we can work and maybe we can agree. They don't know. And we are ahead of a new bill of law, it is suggested, especially because there is obviously a concern at the time of improving and simplifying the administrative procedures. But one thing is administrative simplification and one thing is different from administrative liberalisation. They get together, but they're very different things. And the Government of Catalonia is convinced that in some aspects of the law we want to give cat per lebre, and we want, through the concept of simplification, and a very business focus, some aspects of control that we do not share. This project clearly has, for us, two red lines, which will be the most important points we will present. If this project doesn't get better, it won't have our support. The first – and then I'll give you some examples – is municipal autonomy: it's not certain that this bill improves municipal autonomy and coordination. We say: this bill of law does not improve municipal autonomy, restricts it. Two. The idea of the administration process, permits and claims are a control element, and, Mr. Counselor, they are a security element. The municipal law itself, along with a bureaucratic process, is the security we place in the hands of our assemblies because the requirements of a show or public activity are complete. And this text restricts access and joint control to this type of litigation. Now I will also explain with examples that will be concrete considerations. So these are positions that we have on our own. For example, the activities and establishments of special rule, which are the most, among comets, "dangerous, those of which you see the conflict, those which we have been governors, and governors of government, know what it means – and here there are many deputies and deputies who have been governors, who are governors and who are mayors. These activities must be looked at with a magnifying glass. But it means that these activities, the assembly that governs, want to control them. And this bill of law prevents the gatherings of fewer than fifty thousand inhabitants from handing over municipal law for special rule activities, and only the gatherings of more than fifty thousand inhabitants are required to file a municipal law. Two. Extraordinary activities, which are fraught with many. And it's true, the Councillor has already explained some of the exceptions that come from here, but there are not thousands and hundreds of thousands in Catalonia, of extraordinary activities. The municipalities of less than fifty thousand inhabitants are not required to file municipal law. Where's the city's autonomy? Do you know how many gatherings there are in Catalonia of fewer than fifty thousand inhabitants? The vast majority of the country. And it's true, some of these joints sure they don't have the technical capabilities to assess the impact of that activity. But, well, we have found in other debates, such as, for example, environmental impacts; for example, complementing local councils. Or, in any case, gatherings which do not have the technical capabilities may be deflated by this prerogative. But how many gatherings are there of less than fifty thousand inhabitants...? Which I live with, and from which I have been a registrar... that we have full technical capacity to assess when an activity of these can or cannot be produced. Why are you shutting them out, the generality? Why? I'm asking. Why do you think they can't, or why do you think they can't? So, well, we want to know; we don't agree with that. Or, for example, why can't congregations of less than twenty thousand inhabitants exercise their sanctioning ability when the law is not complete? Until now, it wasn't like that. Why? I'm asking. Some, technically can't; many, yes. Why does it eliminate the possibility of gatherings as advisors? Advice that allows assembly and viewing to calibrate, sometimes, these impacts – sometimes negative, sometimes problematic – that these spectators have to some barrels and some towns and cities in Catalonia. The law strictly forbids them. And all these things, do you know where we've been? To read the law, obviously. But do you know who you're saying that, too? The Barcelona Parliament in a critical report that has formulated on this bill. And the Barcelona City Council has formulated this critical report because it is an institution that is endorsed and bound by the local government, by the assemblies. And when the Barcelona City Council, for whom you are governed, has read with municipal eyes this bill, has prepared a critical report. They ask them to make an effort – we will do it – to incorporate the critical aspects of the Barcelona Parliament with ideas that fit into this bill and that the better, and that, therefore, the local world, the local autonomy, can be more well preserved in this bill. And, obviously, we said before, the managed process is an aspect that needs to be looked at with a magnifying glass, it cannot easily be eliminated. And, look, we have to listen to everyone, we have to listen to the boss of discos – it's a democratic voice, yes –; we have to listen to the boss who takes a lot of braus – it's a democratic voice, yes – but we have to listen to the comings, we have to listen to the assemblies, we have to listen to everyone, and when we listen to everyone we have to make the intersection of these opinions. And we have a humble opinion that the government has been leaking its information. Precisely, the parliamentary process in the Catalonian Parliament believes that it is a democratic mechanism that will allow us to establish a dialog and, through this dialog, to balance this bill. Five things, if they want someone to say they're smaller, but they're also smaller. I point them out: they will be discussions and ideas. Unprofitable entities cannot treat them as the patron of discotheques. It's not the same. When in a village an entity without a job does not do so to earn money, but for a noble cause. And, therefore, with that entity we need to establish a dialog and some requests that allow him to do that activity, because later he won't have to earn any money, and that they won't earn some of the prerogatives that are in the law they won't be able to fulfill. Or we'll just tell them they can't do it. Therefore, non-profit entities must have a specificity to the law, as do the venous entities that organize popular parties. Two: animal torture is not a public spectacle, it is a torture, and therefore this subject should also be present. I know it's relegated to the law, but for us, it's important that the law assumes that animal torture is not just not culture, but it's not spectacle, it can't be spectacle. Three: Prostitution is not a business and prostitution activities are exploitative. Four: there are elements of legal uncertainty that already come from the previous law – that I must also say – with the definition of denominations. It is not the same recreational activities as musical activities, for example. The Barcelona City Council tells us: « Vigilin, because at the time of naming and encompassing activities if we don't need... It's an aspect, if they want, technical, but you know, and the joints know it a lot, that it's a huge source of conflict.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.133.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.134.0	I'm done. I, finally...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.135.0	I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.136.0	... there is a poor coordination of environmental parameters that worry us and that need to be improved in the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.137.0	Thank you. Next, the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.138.0	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, a little less than a year ago we were, precisely, also doing the whole exact debate of the same law, weren't we? And the fact that it's exactly the same as the law gives me the more impression that it's because it's the point, surely, more recently in which the government can go without the need to extend further than has already been achieved. If the law had changed, then surely the procedures would have been much slower and would surely have been much more difficult to discuss this law. Mr. Castillo said: "This is an ideological law. We share it perfectly, we already wanted to warn in the debate of the past year, that this was a very ideological law, and we share the hope of this law because it is based on something that we consider to be fundamental, that is trust in society. We establish standards, we establish rules, we establish obligations, but those that are the subject of these rules, of these obligations, are those that develop these activities. And since the Administration, I believe that what we have to do is give confidence to those people in the sense that, if they want to carry out these activities, they must be acquaintances of whom are the obligations that they must fulfil in order to be able to exercise them with the utmost security possible, and here is where we believe it is worth trusting in society. Count, if they bring this confidence, tougher, severe infringement regime, as you already foresee this law, but we believe it is useful to give this confidence, to allow it to be interventionary or minimal intervention possible. Certainly, rules similar to the Anglo-Saxon rules that a Member of the Initiative had at some point defended in this chamber, the Honourable Salvador Milà. And therefore, from our point of view, we consider all those measures that are taken not to encourage, as the adviser said, the installation or creation of activities of these characteristics, because what we do is not encourage it, but what is done with this law is to eliminate through, make them more sensible, bureaucratic through, in order to be able to exercise the activity. And in this sense, tell them that we understand – and I refer, too, to the advisor's words – that this law does not introduce any more security, no more ease of coexistence between activities and the veins, no more elements of these, but less administrative intervention, but exactly the same levels of security, and that's what we need to look for. That with less intervention there are the same levels of security. And the counselor said to us: « For peaceful coexistence – which is a principle that we are already absolutely in agreement – « the opening and closing times will have to be completed. Well, it's clear, as now, I'd just miss... "The municipal ordinances will have to be completed. It's clear, as now, I'd just miss... "You can't go out with drunks on the street. Of course, with the ara. "It will have to be completed with outages. It's clear, now. This law does not introduce changes in all these coexistence measures: it introduces changes in the administrative intervention regime. This observation, some elements that we don't like, basically the very things that we were going to put on the table in the debate during the last parliamentary term. First element: it seems very good to us that there are pre-emptive communications, but it also seems very good to us that there must be legal certainty for the operator in relation to the content of these pre-emptive communications, and this law returns it to the regulation. We think it would be more positive than the conditions of these conditions to form on the basis of the same law and, in this way, it was a playing field in which we all know exactly who the standards are. They don't like our inventions, and in the law it's an invention, which is a new administered rule that until now was unknown, which is the administered rule of the previous communication with initial control. This is not for a few activities, it's the same, or it's pre-communication, and so there's no initial control, or it's a rule of permission, license, or authorization, where there's initial control. Therefore, trying to sweep a prior communication with an initial control is not to do one thing or the other; this introduces legal uncertainty and, therefore, we are in favour of deleting it. Duguin-ho..., I'm more in favour of hard-on communication, if they want it hard in the area of permission or law enforcement, so we take it to the area of permission or law enforcement, but we don't invent administrative intervention rules. The definition of substantial modifications is a common feature of all laws that introduce the concept of substantial modifications, it is quite an inconcrete concept. Therefore, I think we should resort to texts that already exist, which define quite objectively what is to be considered a substantial modification or not. Because it is not a minor detail, because, depending on what is considered substantial or not, it involves additional bureaucratic processes or not to certain actions. The terms to resolve: it is curious, in the law, what are the terms to resolve the sanctioning shippers, but in change it does not compromise to put terms when they are to be given licenses or they are to be given authorizations. It seems to us much more important the terms for litigation and for authorizations, surely just like the sanctioning regime, no..., it seems to me that they are not, they do not exist. I put it back to the rules, by the way – I put it back to the rules. On the concept of risk, Mr. Nuet set us an example, didn't he? Look, we're convinced that the risk is regardless of the fact that you're carrying on an activity whether you're a workman or a workman. It is regardless, if there is risk, there is risk, regardless of whether there is a job or not, regardless of whether the operator is public or private, regardless of whether it is a noble cause or not. It's that no matter how noble a cause is, you won't allow the assistants to this activity to enter a risk situation. Therefore, we take all situations into account, obviously, but we also take into account that the risk is independent of the ownership of the activity or the ownership of the show. Another element that we also consider important, in the sense of..., someone said: "Well, we are heading towards the Europeanization of this administered regime. So, in this very sense we find that the law lacks the mechanism to allow collaborating entities to operate in Catalonia, not just those that are enabled in Catalonia, but those that are enabled in any other Spanish community. The Market Unit Guarantee Law requires that this be so, but it is that, moreover, in the European sphere we will surely find ourselves exactly the same and, therefore, we find that this consideration is lacking in this law. Q10 quality, okay, but we're not willing to have the quality of an establishment depending on the level of security. All establishments must be secure; therefore, we cannot give a quality seal to an establishment because it meets safety standards. No, it's just that every establishment has to meet security standards. Or those that guarantee a better peaceful coexistence with the veneration. No, it's that all activities must ensure peaceful coexistence with life. Therefore, we do not agree that quality standards can be applied either by security measures or by co-existence measures or by accessibility measures. Yes for cultural interest, yes for permanent activities, yes for architectural interest, yes for certain peculiarities of a certain establishment, but not because it gathers security measures, it would just be missing. All establishments must complete security measures. Finally, disagreement reiterated, not only with this law, but also with the 2009 law regarding the limitation to the transmissions of claims and authorizations and disagreement, also with the issue of the training of security personnel. It is to say, if the current system of training of security personnel does not offer us enough guarantees that it fulfills its functions, what we cannot do is to say: "So now I am doing it. No, put more vigilance, put the necessary conditions, do the necessary inspections, but don't necessarily take it from you. Take the necessary measures because, what you do, you do with the conditions that you have to do, but that's not why you take responsibility. And I conclude, Madam President, in the sense that, as far as this law is concerned, we have had the appearances that we were going to have during the previous parliamentary term, our parliamentary group will not repeat petitions for appearances that there is a very justified cause that obliges us to do so. But under normal conditions we will also try to simplify legislative processes in the sense of not asking for appearances that have already appeared and also to avoid a little giving the feeling that we repeat processes in the parliamentary sphere. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.139.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.140.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, MPs and MPs, I want to make a statement before anything. You know, I'm used to making arrangements. I want to send from here a hug to the people of the Creed for Sabadell and to the director Maties Serracant. Mr. Castillo, Mrs. Granados, that Sabadell, in the context of the Mercuri case, a lord like the Help and a party like the PSC...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.141.0	Miss Mireia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.142.0	...reported...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.143.0	Ma'am..., ma'am Vehi, it seems to me she's... asking you to get back to the question, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.144.0	Okay. I keep going, so I've already moved them, and it seems to me that it's clear. Excuse me, President. The object of the law, therefore, for us the object of the law is to allow us to celebrate recreational performances and activities with a desire to work as easily as possible. Measures such as the generalization of previous communication, which Mr Rodríguez refers to trust, to a value such as trust in society, which for us is a very important value, but, of course, we understand that in a sector and with legislation where private activity is rewarded, with the amount of macro-entrepreneurs there is in this sector, it is a little burdensome to refer to trust. The revocation of decentralisation in favour of the municipalities has also been said from here. It kept working and responsibility, but it's listed criteria, capable of criteria, isn't it? The positive silence of the Administration, open the door to the incorporation of collaborating entities in the inspections, that we, of this, in the business friendly model. It is to say, to encourage that it is negotiated and to encourage the management of entertainment and recreational activities from the perspective of the enterprise. Mr. Rodriguez, this isn't risky for us, it's skin, let's just say it. So, it's not our political model for managing this. But we'd like to go into a subject here today, because it's been said, it's been talked about, and then we'll have the opportunity, let's say, to make direct statements, and we're more grateful for the advisor's disposition, to work and to be able to change. We, of which we want to deepen today, are about the scope of the law's application. Some Members have also said so, haven't they? , which does not distinguish, say, between types of entities or enterprises. That's to say, we rule in the same way a festival like the Spring Sound that a footwear in a popular arena. And, of course, you said: "Vine association activities are being shut down without risk. But it's that, for example, a shoelace in a popular arena wouldn't enter this venous association without risk, surely. A good example of this is, for example, the contracting of civil liability assurances that until now, I believe that the gatherings... well, we don't believe, that we know, that the gatherings had a very active role in the valuation of what type of entity was asking what and, therefore, what type of insurance could or could not be contracted, but with this law the management is generalised. And this leads us to..., or the consequences of this leads us to many unprofitable entities, for example, not being able to take on this type of insurance, right? We passed the legislature, in its moment, we asked for a appearance that 'was rejected, which was from the representation of the Coordinadora de Casals y Ateneus dels Paísos Catalans, for example. A little, well, to bring that perspective, isn't it? Therefore, it is clear to us that this law, a frontal attack on the entities, organizations, couples and ateneus of this country; a frontal attack on the network of people who day by day build popular culture in our home, because it is known that in Catalonia and the Catalan Countries culture is done in the streets, in the squares, in the pairs, in the entities and in the basic organizations. Clearly, and for us, it's a frontal attack on the best state structure we have, which is people, spaces, entities and popular culture. Therefore, from the CUP we will work to ensure that the assemblies recover the decision-making capacity, not just the work, but the decision-making; that the services and the managements that were going to be public, eh? This arrangement in which the door is opened to collaborating entities..., we will work hard to ensure that it is eminently public, the whole chapter of inspections, and that popular culture and basic entities and organizations are guaranteed and followed as they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.145.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr Lluís Guinó, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.146.0	Thank you, President. Counselling, Members, Members, let me begin, first of all, with a question which has a strictly procedural character and which has to do with the intervention made by the deputy of the Socialist Party, Mr Castillo, when he said, or when he commented that we had presented, in some way, a very draft law and that, therefore, this draft law, such as the previous Councillor d'Interior was from Unió Democrática, meant or meant that this draft law had an ideological bias and that he had to see, precisely, with the Councillor's political endorsement. Article 36 of the Presidency of the Generality perfectly allows the Government of the Generality to present a project with the same text... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, sir..., yes, yes; I will read the article, if you will, which says exactly that it is possible to present another time the text. And, therefore, the procedure used by the Government in this case is perfectly feasible, logical and coherent. In this we have agreed, at last, with the Member of the People's Party; therefore, you must have some credibility as to what we are explaining to you. Beyond that, I would also like to say that in the previous parliamentary term we have certainly already done a job – and from here I want to, in a way, also thank the work of the Members of all the parliamentary groups who actively participated in the process and in the constitution of the corresponding office and in the two meetings that they did, that certainly in some important questions of this text we had already certainly agreed, there was consensus. It is certainly not a law that has a strictly political fall; it is a clearly technical law, but, notwithstanding this, we are in the Parliament of Catalonia and, therefore, there are different positions that have already been put forward here and that it seems to me that, moreover, as the Councillor has said, this is a clearly excruciable text that will be open precisely to the process of issues because each parliamentary group, in some way, is a position in which the strategic questions of this text are basically. And it is here, perhaps, that we do not agree exactly with all the parliamentary groups, especially in the strategic lines of the text that is on the table today. And it is that at a certain point it must be perfectly possible, and it is more recommendable, that it is compatible with what it is to facilitate investments, to facilitate that the economy derived from the ocean is able to develop..., but this must be absolutely compatible with the fact that the establishments have security measures and do not generate risks neither for the spectators, nor for the same enterprises, nor for the citizenry in general. Therefore, this difficult balance is what we must bring to an end through this law. And if we carry a standard text for approval to the Parliament of Catalonia another time it is, surely, because it is not only about a whim of the government, but that it has been completed or there have been different assumptions in the application of the previous law that make it necessary for a revision to be made. And it is certainly a review that does not only require spectators of entertainment and recreational activities, but that it is a regulation that also needs, from a business perspective, the entrepreneurs of the oci, because it is important that they can, in this way, have or develop their activities with security measures that do not generate responsibilities, which is what has often happened, as has also been referred to in the intervention of the deputy of Ciutadans, in such a tragic and traumatic aspect as was the case with Madrid Arena. Surely, this law I would want, to make a graphic, is that situations like Madrid Arena do not happen. Yes, it is true that there are concepts in this new law that can be matified, until, for example, the concept of expansion – at a certain point in time it has already been put on the table – that it is Matizable, which means ‘outside'; the role of the administrations, in this case of the assemblies, above all the smaller ones, which are the ones who have the most difficulty in keeping people, from a better prepared competitive point of view, need support, and this law is anticipated and we need to focus more on this task. And in larger gatherings, to maintain what is first and foremost municipal autonomy, which is basic and functional for the gatherings. And, for another band, I also want to make it clear that in many cases there is a need to develop activities in buildings that are or have a clearly historical character and some of the measures, which above all the fire regulations provided for, are difficult to implement. And here we do find ourselves with a problem, certainly, that it is a technical problem, but it is a common problem that the assemblies have in many cases: that at the time of finding certain claims the difficulties are to fall architectural, and in this case, the historical buildings that some cultural entities of this country..., that have helped precisely to consolidate the history and culture of the country, have problems, precisely, because they are very ancient buildings, and some of the measures against fires that regulate the activities in these buildings are certainly difficult to execute. And here, too, there is an important problem, and that is why it makes a distinction between the activities that are primarily with prior communication, that it is not so much to facilitate the activity without control, and that all the enterprises that are dedicated to the sector of the West can actually make it easier for the rest of the activities to function, but rather that it is, in some way, the feeling of giving to the communication before the fact that the control on the part of the Administration comes back later, whenever there is no activity with significant risk. This law also intends to define what is the important risk. And it's a generic concept, such a time, and that should be realized, precisely, in the period of discussions. The major risk would require litigation. And activities that do not pose a significant risk – which we have to define as "significant risk" – in doing so with pre-emptive communications. Beyond that, there is a remarkable aspect that I would like to put on the table, and that seems to me that in this case we do not agree absolutely with the People's Party, and it is what you have to see with the preparation and training of people who carry the control of access to these activities. We clearly defend that, in many cases, dysfunctions have occurred in the private sphere, and we defend, from this perspective, greater public intervention so that this preparation can be brought to an end during the year and that there are two dates, that it is perfectly well known that these tests and advices are made in the training, so that this formation is approved from all of these perspectives, and that there is not, precisely, the dysfunctions that have been produced. Another important aspect – and there has been a reference – is that what matters is that it is possible to develop the oci sector, it is necessary, but for another band, it must also be compatible, this, with living together and maintaining balance with the people who also want to rest. And on many occasions, the problems at the municipal level of the gatherings – yesterday, incidentally, there was an old problem, but now every time more valid, in Sabadell, in the Hermetic Zone of Sabadell –, these activities certainly generate maladies, and what we have to do with this is to somehow give the tranquility that the control provided by the Administration and the subsequent control of these activities that is not developing with the normality and with the necessary legality, the veins can, in some way, access to the Administration so that it protects its interest. Certainly, it's a complex issue, this – there was a deputy who made reference to it just to start –; it's not a simple issue. There are many administrations in his intervention, and it seems to me that the role of the Government of the Generality and the Department of the Interior must be to give support to the assemblies, in the first place; to maintain the autonomy of the municipality and the role of the assemblies in an absolutely strategic way; to maintain and assist in the smaller municipalities to comply with the ordinances, which is also a basic element, and, for another band, also to maintain what is important for the assemblies and cities of this country: that there must be areas of the ocean. And what is to be established from an urban point of view is also in the corresponding plans. There are also many urban problems to solve on this issue. There are also many questions that you have to deal with with this law that are not at all resolved in the same municipal ordinances and, therefore, what we have created is a standard framework, certainly the generic enough because in the period of statements can resolve all the inconsistencies. I, for another group, also, avoid this excessive regulationism that some Members of Parliament have denounced today. We agree that we must immediately draw up a regulation, that it must be completed, and that it must be supplemented by that law. In some cases it is possible that from a legislative point of view it may take longer or less to define the regulatory scope of a law. In this case, it seems to me that without practically any period of discontinuity, we have to start working on the rules, because this law certainly has some generic principles that we should try to achieve more solvency. In the end, thank the Councillor's intervention, thank the speeches in favour of the parliamentary groups. And, somehow, we also understand that some of the appearances that..., if they were brought to term, would certainly prove to be repetitive; but, for another band, also, if parliamentary groups think it is appropriate, it is possible that some appearances are brought to term again, and this group will defend it, but that they are not, I insist, repetitive with what has already been brought to term at the time. And so, somehow, and in agreement with the government, we are still waiting for their contributions and that this law is applicable and above all very useful to the joints and to the administration in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.147.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Counselor, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.148.0	I wanted to make a cheer and a thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.149.0	One minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.150.0	Without opening the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.151.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.152.0	Only, on behalf of the Government of Catalonia, an acclaim and an acknowledgment. Aclamation: We presented exactly, without changing a comma, the same draft of the law that had been submitted to the previous legislature. We have done this to go faster than the parliamentary debate, so we do not have to resubmit it to public information, to ask the Legal Affairs Committee for an opinion; to facilitate the process for this Parliament and all of you. So, that was the cry. And thank you: I thank all the Members, all the Members, who have spoken, built, willing to do better, and obviously there will be a chance to debate, and I hope that from the Catalonian Parliament a good legislative task can be done in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.153.0	Thank you, Counselor. As there are no totalities, this initiative can continue its processing. And we suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.154.0	Let's resume the session. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 18/2003, supporting families, to establish an economic benefit for children and young people aged under 18 (debate of totality)]] [[202-00018/11]] The fourth point of the order of the day is: totality debate on the proposed law amending the Law 18/2003, supporting families, to establish an economic benefit for children and young people at younger ages. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, he presented the initiative, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Antonio Espinosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.155.0	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.156.0	Start when you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.157.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim and purpose of this bill that we have presented is to help families with children, especially those most in need, so that their children do not suffer material deprivations that will damage their present and mortgage their future. We cannot allow the economic and social position where one is born to be a burden for the rest of his life. We cannot allow the maternity financial benefit to be the only direct support measure to the family that the Government of the Generalitat has established and which, moreover, has been suspended since 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, Andrés Conde, Managing Director of Save the Children in Spain, said a few days ago that Spain is not a country for children. There are no reasons missing: 30_percent of children are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, 800,000 in all of Spain, and specifically, and according to the Idescat, 110,000 minors suffer severe material deprivation in Catalonia. There is no doubt that the causes of this situation include instability and job insecurity, unemployment, especially long-term unemployment, and logically this has an impact on the increase in poverty among children and young people. And this, as I said before, causes material deprivations that mortgage their future and generate in certain sections of the population knowledge deficits that will be permanent and that will greatly hinder their subsequent employment and social integration. The end result is that child poverty begins to be structural in Catalonia and the rest of Spain, and its enquisition is due to the lack of investment, it is not due to anything else, is the lack of investment in specific public policies to combat child poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, different studies argue that a child costs approximately EUR 1,900 to EUR 2,500 in the first year; the rest of the years is about EUR 5,500 per year until it reaches the eighteen. That means a monthly_average of 460_euros. In the face of that evidence, what do we have? We have another evidence, and it is that the state makes a rachitic contribution; the only direct aid that Spanish families benefit from is the benefit of EUR 24.25 per month per child under the age of eighteen, and is also subject to very low income limits: EUR 11.519, EUR 960 per month. The result is that only one_of_each_ten families receives it. Let us compare with Europe, and then we see that the reality is quite different, not to say « very different: eight_of_each_ten families receive some kind of direct help; Germany grants 184_euros per month, Norway 125, Denmark 118 and 190, depending on the age of the child. In all these countries, together with Switzerland, Sweden or Austria, support is provided until the child is eighteen years old or completes his or her studies. It is clear that, after a comparison of this nature, the allocation per dependent child or minor hosted in Spain, since, it can be seen, there is no doubt that it is the lowest in the eurozone if we exclude Greece. Well, and in any case we could ask ourselves: "And what is done in Catalonia? And in Catalonia, what's going on? Well, look, it happens that the last governments have forgotten Article 40.3 of the Statute of Catalonia itself. They have forgotten that the public authorities must ensure the protection of children, especially from poverty and its consequences. The truth is that, in terms of the benefits and support that the family receives in Catalonia, it can only conclude what I have said before: they have forgotten, the family policies in Catalonia are forgotten. Well, it is clear, therefore, that the public policies of the Government of the Generalitat have not attempted to correct the raquitic investment of the Government of Spain; on the contrary: in recent years, what we are seeing is that the percentage of investment in spending on families and children has decreased in relation to GDP. Now we are, today, at 0.78_per_cent, against the average 2.2 in Europe. And that's data from Idescat and Eurostat, don't make it up to me. Well, the only measure set out in Act No. 18/2003 on support for families is a maternity financial benefit of EUR 650 for the first three years after the child's birth or foster care. Well, that measure, the only measure, turns out to be suspended from the 2015 budgets. Does the Government of the Generalitat not have the capacity and tools to carry out family policies? Of course it has it, but it does not take advantage of it; it does not take advantage of its powers to apply the autonomous tranche, amounts of personal and family minimums and tax deductions, which could well be, but it is limited – it is limited – to apply the same amounts of personal and family minimums as those set out in the state tranche of the IRPF, that is what they do. Citizens naturally share the objectives of the Council of Europe and the European Commission that family policies must be central to all social policies, precisely because of their preventive nature, eh? and should be implemented as soon as possible to make them more effective. We also share the idea that resources for family policies are not an expense, but a long-term investment that will ultimately improve the prosperity and future well-being of society. As recognized in the current Law on Assistance to Families in Catalonia, the public authorities are obliged to guarantee equal opportunities and to support families, but precisely to combat chronic marginalization and the danger of social exclusion and to facilitate the exercise of responsible motherhood and parenthood. In Citizens we know that family protection policies, huh? With dependent children, they avoid the penalization that families can suffer because of the number of children; they facilitate equal opportunities for families with more burdens than other citizens; we value the contribution of families to progress, and we also know that they play an important role in preventing the intergenerational transmission of poverty. We know that the risk of poverty also influences the educational level of our young people. We are reminded of this by the successive PISA reports, which refer to the negative consequences of the deterioration of socio-economic conditions on the outcome of students. Therefore, if we are to promote progress and social cohesion, we must combat child poverty. The impoverishment of families has also brought about another consequence: that it has led to a decrease in the birth rate. The current and economic scenario has caused families not to expect to have children, or to have fewer children. The decline in the birth rate – which poses a serious challenge that cannot be obviated, such as the future ageing of our country's population – needs to be curbed, and according to studies carried out this trend..., put an end to this trend in our country, eh? , is very important since it can erode the pillars of our welfare state, especially the pension system, and block more dynamic economic, social and cultural progress, as indicated by the Spanish committee of UNICEF. Therefore, if the trend is not reversed, the situation and prospects are clearly worrying for the future, which will hardly be able to maintain the levels of well-being achieved. Faced with this situation, in which most developed countries in our environment are located, the states that are achieving the best results in the birth rate as they are approaching the rate of generational relief, which is the objective to be achieved, have been precisely those states that have carried out decisively policies and reforms aimed at protecting families in all their forms and modalities and at protecting, of course, children. Consequently, in view of the current serious reality and considering that the responsibility to guarantee the rights of children, of minors, especially those in a vulnerable situation, lies with families but also with the public authorities, it is for this reason that the Parliamentary Group of Citizens presented the proposal for a law that we are debating today to establish an economic benefit per dependent child under the age of eighteen who live in families with incomes below the poverty line. What less can we do? The amount of this benefit is left open and we do so for two reasons: one, for strict and we believe that appropriate legislative technique; we believe that the amount should be established by regulation. And it must be done legally for that, by legislative technique, and also so that it can be more agile and dynamically adapted to the financial situation of the Generalitat. But there is one thing that we do have clearly and for us it is irrefutable: we have the unequivocal will to implement the and its progressive budgetary improvement, precisely for what? , to bring investment in Catalonia and the rest of Spain closer to the European average, also within a comprehensive policy of support for families. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.158.0	As the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes has withdrawn the message to totality, we will now proceed to the turn of interventions to fix the positioning. In the first place, has the word Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.159.0	Thank you, President. Members, deputies, the proposal of the law that today we bring to discussion answer to a petition formulated not only for the same political group of Ciutadans, but also for various entities of the country such as the Fedaia, the Federation of Child and Adolescent Care Entities, but also for Save the Children and many other entities. It is also an inclusive proposal, among others, in the political program of the Socialist Party of Catalonia. In Catalonia and Spain, three of each of the children live under the care of the poor. The lack of sufficient entrances to the family nucleus directly affects children and adolescents, making it difficult for them to access equal opportunities to their development as individuals, as psychological situations arise, of health, of learning and of school income. This later is perhaps the most important, since it will determine its future ability to get out of this vicious circle of social exclusion, as it will be key to the establishment of its own professional and vital curriculum during its adult stage. Let us ensure that Catalan children and adolescents have good living conditions, as marked by the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but also as marked by the same Statute of Autonomy and the Law on the Rights and Opportunities of Childhood and Adolescence or the Covenant for Childhood of 2013. A law and a plan with a very weak and unassigned deployment. International, state and Catalan legislation oblige us to ensure that children at risk of exclusion can access basic needs: food, clothing and hygiene. And whatever their economic situation, the country, must not be excused to guarantee these needs to one of the weakest and most affected by the consequences of the crisis in our country. I think all the folds are clear where we are. Catalonia and Spain are at the heart of Europe in public investment in children. We target 0.9 of Catalan GDP for childhood policies; Spain targets 1.4, and Europe targets 2.2_per_cent. We are at which, too, in the effectiveness of our policies to fight against this sacra: 215,000 infants and adolescents live in places where they do not work. And, of course, the reform of the minimum income of insertion that was made in 2011, with limited requirements that are still being applied today, has left no more than two thousand children, since their families have not been able to afford it. Moreover, from a first reading of the draft assumptions presented a little more than a week ago, childhood policies are not moving, and in this Parliament we have approved motions to approach the European average of infancy investment in relation to GDP. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, childhood policies continue to be an assignment for all of us, for the government and for the country. And we need to talk about truth and look for a shared vision that makes us move forward in family policies. And we believe that a question can be the only parliamentary space to clearly fix, by putting the law, which is what we want for the children of Catalonia. And why am I saying that? So, because a few hours ago, on this bill's proposal there was a thought to the totality of Junts for the Yes, a position, under our point of view, which was not understood, after the group that gives the Government a recollection approved a motion to the plenary of the poor celebrated March, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and also for Catalonia Yes, it is possible, if one began to study a performance of these characteristic same things. But it is that, moreover, the Parliament, to its Committee on Children, has already urged them, with the favorable votes on the part of the Group of Joints for the Yes, to recover the benefits for children in charge and to ensure that all families with admissions of less than 35,000 euros can receive them. And not only that: in the electoral campaign, you, both the representatives of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia and the Republican Left, have coincided in actions where we have all defended this performance. Therefore, I celebrate Junts' change of opinion for the Yes, whatever it was at the last hour, or whatever it was – and someone had to say – for losing this vote. Keep it up, let's celebrate the rectification. Second of all, we will give recollection because we believe that this proposal for law coincides, to a great extent, with the commitments that the Socialists have made with citizenship in our electoral programme and with the motion presented for my group and Catalonia Yes, it is possible, as I said before, to the plenary of the poor. And, thirdly, because we hope that this proposal for law will lead to the parliamentary process that allows us to learn and analyse among all political groups, with the participation of entities that have worked on this issue intensively, as and how we can implement an economic performance for children and adolescents. In summary, the proposed law includes two modifications to the article of the Law 18/2003 of 4 July 2003 on support for families. The first has to do with the fact of inserting in article 9 a new point that determines the new economic performance for children younger than two years, and the second includes an article that delimits this new performance to families with lower incomes than Catalonia's sufficient income index. Of course, Catalonia's performance indicator has not been up to date since 2010, and six years of crisis have passed without the government updating the IRSC, and neither does it in the draft assumptions that we are debating, or not, in the coming weeks. Caldria plan to increase it to make more families able to access the social benefits that the CIHR has as the reference indicator. In general terms, my group agrees with the changes made to this bill, but I should like to warn you of some elements of a more general fall. As home this new performance with the discussion of what will be the future guaranteed income of citizens? Can we make more benefits, or can we include in the beneficiaries of guaranteed income children and adolescents who are part of the family as holders of guaranteed income from citizenship? Why do we have to double the help and the benefits? With this new benefit, as will be the one falling back to the Law 12/2006 of 27 July of social benefits of economic character, which in its article number 22 contemplates the benefit for minors in a situation of risk? Under our point of view, we think we need to be more effective in managing it and in resources. Finally, if this new service comes forward, it is necessary to put into practice all the other similar services that exist in one to make it more economically powerful, but also to make it easier for professionals to manage and, above all, not to mariage families, which are already tidal when they know that there are 155 different services in Catalonia. How can they shield this future performance? I remind the group that I support the Government that the current universal economic benefit for infants under three years of age, or infants under six years of age in the case of single-parent families, has de facto been eliminated from the Presumables Act and has left no effect on Law 18/2010. Before Mr Espinosa said that he had been eliminated since 2015. No, this service has already eliminated the year 2011, and, therefore, we carry years without this child-to-child service from zero to three years, or less than six years in the case of single-parent families, is set in motion in our country. And another point: how will we pay for it? Because, if the problem is the premise – and this is one of the problems – let's look at the mechanisms for a progressive application of the performance, but we'd like it if we didn't deny the debate, as they were trying to do this morning, which should be a new performance that guarantees the rights of children to our country. We consider, therefore, that it is worth talking about, these and other problems that this service can pose, that it has, and, in general, what is our social protection system for children and adolescents in our future in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.160.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot. [[Pause.]] When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.161.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Last week I went to a conference organized for Save the Children, like other Members of this Parliament, to meet, from the point of view of this entity, the situation of childhood in Spain and, from retruc, Catalonia. The title of the conference played with Cormac McCarthy's novel, No country for old men – It's not a country for old people – but it was asked with a question: is it a country for infants? After the conference, anyone who had been there could have answered without making a mistake, if not, that this is not a country for children. Of the three most urgent problems in which the layman focused his intervention, the first was the poor. « Catalunya and Espanya, said the ponent, « is found to the cua of Europe for which it makes child welfare. Catalonia only invests a 0.9_per_cent of its GDP in child protection, much under the middle of the European Union countries, which is 2.2_per_cent. In Catalonia, one of every four infants lives under the care of the poor and almost one of every one lives in a situation of severe material deprivation. Can you imagine, deputies and deputies, being the mother of one of these creatures? And tell the mother why the figures presented fifteen days ago for the Genre Observers of the Chamber of Commerce do not leave room for the doubt: if you are giving to Catalonia, you have all the numbers of the raffle to be poor, even though you have training and work. So they won't be surprised by another of the figures that the observer put on the table: 40_percent of single-maritime families live in poor situations; 40_percent of women who live alone with their creatures are poor. That's why I asked them to imagine that they are the mother of one of these creatures and that with a sum of 600_euros a month – and I'm very generous – they can't feed them properly or know where to leave them in summer, when school closes the doors. I could also have told them that they imagined that they were a couple of immigrants, or a man or a woman who didn't finish high school, or a large family. These are the most likely family types to live in the poor. The same day I went to Save the Children's conference in the morning, on the evening I heard Mr. Francesc Homs on television explaining the values that the new game that they would create from the ashes of Convergence will have. He said that the value that best represents him is the culture of work, because they are not supporters of the culture of subsidy. It's going to leave me frozen. What a bar! How could he appropriate a value that shares in a general way the whole parliamentary arc? How could the culture of work be attributed to define its party? And how could I imagine that there's a lot of people in favor of living on the drug while the state gives them help? I find it easy to let a frivolity go – not to mention a descent – like this time of stable work and a decent soul, a comfortable home, the opportunity to give university studies and masters to the children and a well-filled schedule of contacts to help them settle down. The woman we spoke of before also tea, the culture of work. In fact, a lot of work, hours, inside and outside the house, but it will never cease to be poor, and what is still worse: its creatures will always live in the poor. Because 85_percent of poor adult people are girls of poor families. As you know, not finding work or having a precarious job is not attributable to the citizenry, but it is the result of a structural situation, a situation that the Government must do its utmost to minimize; it has this obligation, the Government. Many countries of the European Union have already understood this, and know that social transfers – fixed in the term, "social transfers, not subsidies, but social transfers" – reduce the risk of poverty dramatically for children. The most notable example of this policy is that of Ireland. Ireland is the country of the European Union with an index of poorer children higher before transfers. The index – approximate data gifts – is 49_per_cent, and after transfers is converted into 17_per_cent. The Spanish State has a poverty rate of 37 children, and after social transfers it is left in 30. And I say "Spanish State because I don't have the data broken down, but I can assure you that Catalonia wouldn't be in a better situation. If we extrapolate the data of the poor severe material that I mentioned before and that I do have disaggregations, we can say that Catalonia would be located in a place per metjana. They think it's all about money? Part of it is, of course. But it's not just this, the question; the most important is how money is spent. I mean, it's a matter of political will. One example: Switzerland has a per capita GDP of 55,000 dollars against the 41,000 that each inhabitant of Ireland has, but social transfers in childhood are much higher to Ireland than to Switzerland. Ireland reduces the child poverty by 32_per_cent– by 32_per_cent– and Switzerland by 11_per_cent. You see, the reduction of child poverty is, above all, a question of ideas and priorities. Entities working for children have long insisted on the need to make social transfers to reduce child poverty. They have already published a report stating that poor children in our country are not in line with the poor stereotyping we have in mind. Our infants are not worth barefoot or looking for food in the mouthpieces, but this does not mean that they do not have other types of manifestations of the poor to fall more invisible, such as emotional, psychological, relational..., band to present difficulties, for example, to have covered their basic needs. They have, therefore, shortcomings that make them impossible to have an equal opportunity for the full development of their person, which often predisposes them to suffer learning problems, psychological problems, health problems and, consequently, all this goes back to problems of school success. Things decided at the time of reproducing the vicious circle of poverty and social exclusion in the adult stage, as we said before. For this reason, entities have long demanded a universal benefit for the child, PEUC. It's a shame that Ciutan only proposed to amend the Family Support Law; Mr. Espinosa made it clear all the way around, that they were talking about helping families. But there could have been a lot more than that. And we said it for three reasons. The first, because, as she makes clear her name, this is a law to help families, while the universal child benefit is thought because the infant rebinels are subject to right and because they have right to this help, but naturally it is perceived by the people who have their custody. The second, because the universal benefit to which Ciutadans refers in point 9.1 already exists; says: "Families who have children under three years of age or children under six in the assumptions set out in paragraph 2 are entitled to an annual economic benefit of one payment, etc. And yes, it's true, City in the broad up until the different years, that's true, but oblivious that she's been under suspicion for a long time, as Congressman Moreno reminded us. And the third reason, because at point 1 of Article 10a it is determined that the economic benefit will be paid to families with incomes lower than the income indicator of sufficiency, and this income indicator at these times is at 7,967_euros, which represents a large proportion of the needs of our infants; therefore, very few infants will benefit from this help. And, on the other hand, it's exactly the opposite of what Fedaia asked in his report. Fedaia spoke of a universal performance, which means for all creatures, with independence from family income. Although the law does not correspond exactly to the philosophy that encourages the proposal that in its moment made the Fedaia, we will not stick to it. Our group, however, believes that child benefits must be universal and must represent equal opportunities, so that they do not go as far as helping only to invest, because they act not only on the presence of our infants, but also on the future of the adults who will be, with little chance, therefore, falling into the poor. Our group firmly believes that we must act urgently in favour of childhood because Catalonia is a country for childhood. We believe that the PEUC requires a separate law, a law designed for infants as subjects of the right, and that is why we will present them with a proposal for the law of the PEUC that will not change any existing law, but will constitute a new law. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.162.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mrs. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.163.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, well, the debate on the poor, unfortunately, is a question that has been debated in this Parliament on various occasions by all parliamentary groups. We have scarcely devoted a single plethora to it, but there are certainly few concrete and firm measures that respect it. And I want to make it clear, as I said on more than one occasion, that it's not the same thing about poverty as about inequality, and if we go to the scene of the problem, the gravity of the current situation is how we distribute wealth in such a way that social inequality ceases to be a scourge that we experience since the world is world. We understand that with this proposal to amend the Law 18/2003 to support the families that Ciutan presents us in which it is to give more opportunities, or better said, to give opportunities to children and adolescents who live in an economic situation that does not allow them to develop as such. You're supposed to execute what you tell us this law, aren't you? , says: "Public authorities are obliged to ensure equal opportunities and to support families with children in the fight against chronic marginalization and social exclusion, and to facilitate the exercise of a responsible motherhood and fatherhood. In accordance with Article 43 of the Statute, which has already been mentioned, this proposal also involves the deployment of Article 41 of the Law 14/2010 which states that "public authorities must take the appropriate measures to ensure that parents or guardians or guardians of children or adolescents have the opportunity to provide them with the basic level of material they need for adequate comprehensive development. The development of these measures must establish the criteria for determining the basic level of material welfare of children and adolescents, and must include – and include – ‘a system of public aid and services. This is what this law says, a specific Catalan law of the rights and opportunities of these collections. Therefore, this proposal, at a time when the risk of poverty, according to data from the Idescat, more incidence in less than seventeen years– we are talking about a 28.8_per_cent–, can give answer to all the demands of the most vulnerable of our society. Families, for us, the family is the basic institution of our society, a security network, the first NGO in times of crisis, and the key to the transmission of values such as solidarity, compromise, tolerance and social cohesion. Therefore, it is obvious that more than ever one must guarantee a framework that favors family structures, since in the end it is the best service that we can do to individuals in particular and to society as a collection. For what it does to the proposed amendment of the law, which provides for an economic benefit for children under 18 years of age to families with lower incomes than the minimum income indicator, we cannot be against it, and therefore, obviously, we have not presented a report to the totality. At times like the current ones, families that are patenting the lack of more basic resources need the Administration to make available to them all those instruments that facilitate the development of children and young people in their entirety. We're aware that the presuppositional availabilities aren't meant to pull together, we're conscious, but, in the end, it's the usual one, right? , the magic word of good government, the good legislator, is to "prioritise". And it is clear that the welfare of people, of family nuclei must be the government's priority objective. And when we talk about providing resources for integral development, we don't just refer to products of primary need, such as food and clothing, but to everything that involves a normal development in the emotional, psychological and relational realm. Because I need to be aware that, as the same Fedaia said – and Mrs Gemma Lienas commented – a poor child in our country does not correspond to the stereotyping of the poor that prevails in our society and that, normally, he associates himself with the type of poor country that is found in development lives. In Catalonia, we don't fool ourselves, no child is willing to die or has been cleared out of the street, but it is certain that there are some shortcomings in a part of them that do not allow them to develop like the rest, which implies a deficit in equal opportunities. For our part, we want this proposal of the law to follow its course, its processing and thus be able to substantially improve it. Congressman, the People's Party hurts our eyes not to see in its proposal, in all ways, not a single thing to the named families, even though in the presentation of your own motion you say that family protection policies must avoid the penalty that the family can suffer by reason of children's names. So, look, in this writing that you present to us, the first ones who penalise the families of the names are you, your parliamentary group, which, in a question as specific as this, in point 2 of the new Article 10a, refer to the single-parent nucleus, and with children with disabilities, certainly one of the most vulnerable, but completely oblivious to another type of family which, in the end and in the end, is the most important contribution to society, and which are those who have three or more children. We regret, and I sincerely say, that this collection has been omitted, which, with all certainty, needs special attention. And I've already advanced that if this proposal succeeds – that I think it does, after Juntes for the Yes has withdrawn the challenge to the totality in the last minute – then our main goal will be to include nombrosian families, both of general and special character. By the way, comment, right? That, precisely, what before was Convergence and Union, in its day, and which is now Democratic Convergence of Catalonia - Republican Left, therefore, the concern for families has been null and void, has it not? I remember when I came in 2011 the first one that Councilman Cleries did, so it was to withdraw this universal help for families with children in charge, right? It's the first measure he's taken. You have had another opportunity in the later legislature... – I'm talking about Convergence, Convergence and Union –, in the later legislature or, I don't know, the previous one, I don't remember anymore, because here you pass pants and pass legislatures like a full pass of a book, right? However, he said that the old Convergence had the opportunity to give the green light to process an initiative of the People's Party that benefited the families, but you rejected it. I, in the end, therefore, have nothing to do with it. Well, I also want to remind you that when the Spiny Member, then, spoke that at the level of the State it is not enough – it is not enough – as to this issue, is it not? To help families with their children, I believe..., I agree with you that much more could be done, or so I recognize; but I also want to value this help that the seas, the working seas – also the Catalan working seas, huh? – that they have children under three years of age or that they have children with some type of disability or, well, that they are single-parent families who receive an aid of 1.200 euros per year or double, depending on the case, right? Therefore, some measure has come to the length of this legislature. And another: the 2nd National Strategic Plan for Children and Adolescents 2013-2016, also with a premise of thousands and thousands of euros destined, therefore, to improve the situation of our children and adolescents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.164.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word "Mrs. Gabriela Serra", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.165.0	Hey, nice late. President, thank you. On the other hand: the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Crida Constituent, from our position, convinced and radical in the exercise of democracy, we will facilitate this proposal for a law amending the Law 18/2003, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, can be debated in committee, even though, from the outset, we raise serious discrepancies both with the basic conception and with its formulation; but we still think that we can discuss it in committee. I don't want to repeat data because we've given so many data, all of it, which seems to me to be a little absurd. I'd just like to pick up a couple of ideas. When the citizens' companies, and now the PP, were talking to us about the help of the Spanish State, they were talking to us about how we help families with children, how we can do that without deprivation, etc. I would like to recall the first article of the law that we are discussing today and that says: "To improve the well-being and quality of life of families in relation to the responsibilities that they acquire and the rights that derive from it: housing, culture, education, the environment, work and health. I would like to remind you that when we say what the State has done and what the State is doing, and what is done in Catalonia to fight against the poor and, in this case, the poor child and adolescent..., that the July of last year, the fruit of an ILP presented jointly for the Platform of Affects for Mortgage, the Alliance against Energy Poverty and the Observers DESC, this plenary of Parliament unanimously approved Law 24/2015, urgent measures to address the emergence in the realm, precisely, of housing and energy poverty; that, as the first article of the Law says, they are phonal for infancy and adolescence; they are phonenal for the whole family, that is to say, the first article of the Law, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor. And it's true what Gemma's partner said, the speakers that Save the Children are very interesting. The problem is that I like that with Raúl we live in Santa Coloma de Gramenet, with a lot of pride and with a lot of honor, disarrayed – disarrayed – the poor we have very close, inequality we have at home and bad redistribution we live and see it daily. That's why this law, this law we introduced, was born on the street and collected seven years of struggle and daily defense of the rights of everyone. We put up with denunciations, we put up with sub-administrations, and we went to release families from debt, and to recover empty housing that bank robberies wanted to dislodge. But, curiously, what is Spain doing, a member of the People's Party? What does the Spanish State do? So, easily, after the appeal filed for the Spanish government, which presides over its party, the Constitutional Court has definitively suspended a good part, not to mention the whole substantial part of the article of this law of poor energy and housing emergence. And, yes, let me be clear, it's misguided and perverse decisions, because they are wary of the basic rights of everyone and, in a very special way, they are twisting the inspiring and founding principle of public actions in the protection of children, children, girls, girls, underage children, who are no more than the best interests of the child or adolescent. I assume that with this you can understand that when we come from the CUP - Creeda Constituent day we have to disobey the decisions of the Constitutional Court, too, not only because we want a Catalan republic, not only because we want to create an independent country, but also because we want to fight against the poor, inequality and these frankly mutilated and perverse actions, which tempt against a very important part of our country's childhood and adolescent citizenship. Therefore, consider as the CUP - Constituent Creed, that we must address urgently and with the utmost diligence this problem, and, sense of doubt, is polyhedral. It was said: "We have a lot of laws, decrees, approved resolutions that many of them are contradictory. Let us take this opportunity, from this polyhedral point of view and from an integral perspective, to analyze and refer and re-discuss and re-draft a law aimed at actions to eradicate in an effective and real way the poor and the social exclusion actions in which this third part of our children, children, young people and young people is immersed. And, yes, what we would ask is that we avoid legislative practices that do not cease to be political seas of bits and, if not, that distill many times the mass of opportunistic flair. "Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.166.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes... Then, there's the word Mrs. Anna Caula, from the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.167.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as our company has done on this proposal, we have today withdrawn the whole issue. From the outset, however, we have raised this issue, not because we disagree on the basis of the proposal that we want to establish an economic benefit... but we do disagree to do so in a disorderly way, putting pieces and without having a global view of the Catalan social security system. And much more in disagreement, yet, if we don't have all the time to face up to the policies we want to bring to fruition, because, in the end, what we want to talk about at this time is what model of social benefits we want. Let's recap. Three months ago, in the plenary session of the Social Emergencies, here in this Chamber, we approved Resolution 17/XI, specifically point 1.1.d, where it is said: "Studying the implementation of an economic benefit for the child addressed to infants and adolescents between the ages of zero and divided, conceived as a direct input that would help to compact the different aids and benefits that currently exist. And the government and the department have done so, following the mandate of this Parliament; they are studying the current tax reliefs and aids, and will study the viability of creating an economic benefit of these characteristics in order to implement it progressively for those economically most disadvantaged families. It was approved, with the work of all, in the Social Emergencies Plenary, as we would help infants and young people according to the tools that we have at the abst: minimum income of insertion, food aid, housing conservation aid, poor energy, employment programs for young people, and many others. And in less than three months, we find this proposition on the table. We are betting on a global debate on the future vision of the Catalan social service. Together for Yes we understand that the national and the social are indestriable, and only having all the resources that the Catalans generate can we invest in the best of the conditions of the life of our people, of the city of Catalonia. And we have not just heard, either, this dichotomy: on the one hand, from Ciutadans we are denied the possibility of seeing Catalonia as a state, but, at the same time, with this proposal, we are asking for activities of state structure. Perhaps it would not be the Parliament to make this proposal, but to whom today has the ability to carry it out, which is who collects taxes, in concrete terms those of social security. It is also hard for us to hear that who fell for it in Spain, the PP, with the absolute majority, can now tell us that Catalonia sees it as viable. Well, the world backwards. Together for the Yes we agree with the willingness to work to implement a child benefit for children, so that as the country we want to guarantee equal opportunities for all children, also linked to the guaranteed income debate that is already open to Parliament. But what we want is to be ambitious with the powerful global project, and that is why we agree that you follow the debate. It seems to us very well the fixed target of 2.2 of GDP which is in its presentation as the objective, which is the European media in policies of family protection – we share this will –; what we find missing in its proposal of law is that they tell us how they intend to reach this target, this objective. We want your complicity in what and also in how. We want to give people reality, viable and sustainable projects. Catalonia is in the current – and we hope it will be for some time – an autonomous community asphyxiated economically, where every time that a fiscal balance is published we add that 16,000_million euros returned to Catalonia go to the Spanish State and do not return; to the same State that lends us money with undue interests and with an inextricable remedy of deficiency; certainly much more require that what is required of the same State. And, for that matter, all the initiatives that have come out of this Parliament to confront the poor and help overcome the difficulties of the most disadvantaged have been suspended for the Constitutional Court at government institutions, and I do not detail them because they start to be many. From this rostrum I profit to encourage them to do pinya with the Government of Catalonia so as to reverse this situation. And I encourage them, too, to go further. We're about to launch a state election campaign. We assume here, as one company commented, the compromise, all, to make clear this proposal in all electoral programs, because, whether we like it or not, this is the economic and presuppositional reality that we currently find ourselves in Catalonia. Therefore, a rigorous technical and economic analysis is necessary, because what we cannot do, in our view, is to create false expectations that are impossible to complete with the current state of the accounts. Before, then, we open it, we open this debate in committee and we all work responsibly to make a realistic law. It is from honesty, from responsibility and political dignity, and without deceiving anyone, that we intend and want to offer measures to redress the most vulnerable situations. And in this sense, from Junts to Yes we are not willing to sell smoke, nor to play politically with the raw reality, nor to generate false expectations, because this leads people to frustration. We want real and possible measures. Because we remember, if not, the feeling of frustration that has generated the failure of the State in matter, for example, of dependence. The Government of the Generality is making a great effort to maintain the system of dependence, to give response to the city that needs it the most. Since then, the State has underfunded the system of dependence and has not fulfilled its obligations, but that is why we have not stopped working from Catalonia to cover up and everything that we were not looking for in favour of our people. The State has resigned from paying its share of dependency benefits; on the other hand, the Generalitat brings everything that corresponds to it and more, because we believe it. And we also believe in this performance, but precisely because we believe it we want to make sure it can be completed. We do not want to generate expectations that cannot be fulfilled because they are economically unsustainable. We already want a clear bet to define a policy of global attention to childhood and adolescence, and not to generate false expectations of one law type of dependency law two. What exactly are we talking about? Can we quantify the economic cost of a universal child benefit? We spoke before the Fedaia and the PEUC. They quantify in 3,500_millions of reversal of the PEUC, while with a return of 1,100_millions, which would leave the final reversal in 2,400. How would we like to be able to develop it? So much. But for now... and I'm just saying, for now, they're completely inexhaustible for an autonomous Catalonia at these moments. To put it in context, it should be remembered that the assumption approved for the government, of 2016, previewed 2,694_millions for the department. You're planting a pot of 2,400. What do they stop doing? Everything, and we're just doing this job for infants? Also, on the other hand, remember our reality, the impossibility in which the Government found itself to face the payment of universal benefits for children in 2010 and 2011, which ended with an extension of payment. A reversal, therefore, of these characteristics, or just like those of 2010-2011, this government cannot now be allowed. And it's bad news for the country, and so much so, that we have to reflect on why, having a country with such a dynamic, competitive and export economy, we don't have the tax returns that would allow us to finance these kinds of policies. This does not mean that the government leaves you unprepared or without help families with children in charge. We bet, in line with the city's mandate to respect, to boost the minimum income investment by 70_million, which must also allow for a level of coverage that includes complements for children in vulnerable families. At this time of construction of the Catalan welfare state this can only be done in an integral debate on Catalan social protection. The Government of the Government of Catalonia intends to increase the funds earmarked for childhood policies in the proper premise. In view of the situation of social emergence in which the citizenry of Catalonia lives, priority is given to the policies of support of the welfare state, which revert all to the families and to the welfare of its members. So, what we're clear about is that since March 9th, where we're all here talking about this issue in the Social Emergence Plenary, there are almost three months left because this country can decide for itself which social policies we want with its own tools. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.168.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The debate is over, and since there are no totalities, this initiative can continue its processing. [[Proposition of inheritance and donation tax reform law (totality debate)]] [[202-00020/11]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, which is the total debate on the proposed reform law on inheritance and donation tax. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules, he presented the initiative, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, Mr Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.169.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, today it's time to mull; today it's time to move from statements, gestures, the theatricalization of differences, the government's indefinitiveness about fiscal policy, to decide. You all have to decide whether you are at the cost of 5_percent of taxpayers who have very important inheritances and donations, and do not want to pay, or you are at the cost of 95_percent who require more public resources to make social policies. Catalonia's bill Yes, it can give this Parliament the opportunity to fully rescue the inheritance and donation tax and recover a good share of the tax receipts lost in the past few years. Recordin-ho vostès: 1,500_million euros accumulated, lost, since 2011. To justify the maintenance of the retail and social policy of the Catalan government, the government and its president tell us that Catalonia does not have enough entrances and that the system of autonomous financing is unjust, he said we share in the cent_per_cent. But the government continues to tell us that we can't increase our tickets because Spain doesn't leave us, and that's right, it's just a myth. It is true that the PP government neither eats nor lets eat in fiscal policies; nor does it allow in fiscal matters in social policies. But the Government of the Generality is shielding itself from the reprehensible behaviour of the People's Party to preserve that the Catalan Government also renounces to exercise an important part of the fiscal powers that it has at its disposal, and not because the PP does not leave it, but because, in short, it wants to benefit a very concrete sector of society. Here we have President Puigdemont's alibi, which insists that Catalans – so, in general, huh? As if we were the only society in the world without social classes, as if we were a society socially eunucalyptus, eh? , Catalans – pay a lot of taxes. Exactly the same speech the People's Party makes. And that's radically fake. In Catalonia, like Spain, there are citizens who are escaping from paying the inheritance tax, and this is what we want to solve today. As is also radically false the claim that the IRPF's autonomous tram in Catalonia is more heavy than in Spain. I have had the opportunity to make a comparison around the forty-two trams that could disaggregate me, the different trams of the different autonomous communities, and I can assure you that in twenty-nine of these forty-two trams Catalonia is under the middle on the IRPF's autonomous tram. And when we talk about entrances of more than 36,000 euros, from the twenty-four trams per envelope of this quantity, Catalonia is also under the middle. Please leave Mr. Puigdemont and his government to make an assertion that he can't stand it. The government is refusing to pay more for the IRPF's high-rise trams on placebo from the lower-rise trams. Make the account: don't give to a T-Mes, a mobility card – a T-Mes. In Catalonia there are people with a lot of income and assets, as well as in Spain, who are the beneficiaries of fiscal policies that benefit a few and harm the majority, because for some the tax system is not what they pay, but what they get through the fiscal policies that we have just discussed. In this context, Catalonia Yes, it can present this proposal of law, which, if approved, would allow a significant increase in the Generality's revenues and make our system a more progressive and fairer tax system. Today, Catalonia Yes, it may, modestly, offer to the chamber, to this Parliament, the opportunity to set aside a break, a break in truth, a break with an unjust tax system that has always shared the Catalan right and the Spanish right; a proposal that would allow us, at the time that it is developed, to increase the revenues approximately in about 400_million euros per year, that together with the reforms of the IRPF that the different groups of the chamber, of assets and measures of green taxation allow us to have some assumptions of truth, of those that you say they do not want to do, not that they cannot do. We are talking about more than 1,000_million additional possibles that, when we hear – and we can discuss this – they should have a very clear priority, which is to put them at the service of the guaranteed income of citizenship that the society and social organizations of this country require of us. Recordin: the tax on estates and donations was the last..., was the great fiscal battle in relation to two tax and corporate models that it had not only Spain, but also Catalonia. For years, the Catalan right has launched a brutal campaign to benefit 5_per_cent. Do I remember you? Publicized even to buses against inheritance tax. Some, some little shame of Convergence and Union, and I say so, qualified this tax as the "imposed of death," used the same terminology they use, for example, lords like Trump, at these times, the Republican candidate for the presidency of the United States. At that time, the 2010 reform entailed a thorough reform of the taxation on inheritance and donations, but, as always, the Catalan right did not have enough, and the Government Mas, the year 2011, approved with the votes of Convergence and Union and the PP – when they felt so much – a real dismantling of the tax, which benefited 5_percent of taxpayers. At that time, Mr Mas-Colell, in the debate, said that no one is concerned, that reform would have a small impact, only 52_millions less for 2011. That God kept his sight, because the truth was that in 2011 that reform meant a reduction in entrances of 261_millions, which became a reduction in entrances of 313 year 2014. In total, I insist, during all these years, Catalonia, the public arches, have lost tickets per import of 1,500_million euros with which many social policies could have been made. And, I insist, in the midst of detail, when it was explained to the people that the details were absolutely inevitable, that they could not, that it was the fault of the others, that it was the fault of Espanya, that it was the fault of the economy – that no one did not pateixi, that I breathe and speak at the same time. [[Widow's remorse.]] For years he has been giving himself a half-year – he has been giving himself a half-year – of 300_million euros a year to people who inherited important assets at the cost of punishing the heaviest people. And this is what modestly with our proposal we try to reverse today with this law proposal. Unfortunately, what has been the opposition and the position of the entire life of the Catalan and Spanish All-Life Drets, of the Democratic Convergence and of the People's Party, today is assumed by the Republican Left of Catalonia, camouflaged from Junts for the Yes, because that's what makes its goal manifest to the totality. We are not discussing the details, we are discussing that if this is approved we will not have the opportunity to discuss the better treatment of the inheritance tax and donations to our country. With its totality, Together for the Yes, joining the People's Party, it can prevent us from having the opportunity to get clean tickets to 400_million euros per year. A few tickets that we need and that would go very well to face a situation of social emergence, and also to end some injustices. For example, the one who sees people in a situation of dependence, forced to collect public charges that are truly confiscating. This is the "imposed of death." The one who has to pay those people at the end of their lives, with very low pensions, to which they are not given the opportunity to dispose of this which the company has managed to qualify as butxaca money. This is where the conflict is. You're fixin' yourself well, huh? That's what the same government does. The same government that refuses to reform the inheritance and donation tax, imposes public charges on these persons with minimum pensions, to whom it practically confiscates its thought in order to co-sponsor a concerted place, of a concerted residence. This is the same government, and at the same time, in the same legislature. The reform of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot does not affect all taxpayers, it only affects a small part. Small and medium-sized heresies will continue untaxed. It only affects 10_percent of those who inherit and donate and, significantly, only 5_percent of the privileged. I would like to remind you that our proposal kept out, kept free of this tax, tax, all the usual habitats up to 500,000 euros. I want to make it clear that we also keep out the heritage of those family businesses to avoid the negative impact that this could have on the occupation. I want to take advantage of some of the arguments given historically and that will come out today – I'm sure – on the part of the Spanish and Catalan right around this tax. Some say – Mr Junqueras came to say in the first appearance he made here – that the inheritance tax charges twice the same fact. False! That's not true, because who pays is who pays for the inheritance, not what he paid for with his work. But you've got what more classist argument that of Mr. Junqueras, Vice President of the Government: if a person is poor of solemnity and collects the minimum wage only and everything has to be destined to consume, he pays the IRPF and pays the VAT; but, in change, if there is another person who charges a hundred times more than this, it turns out that in all that he saves and accumulates and has a patrimony, when he leaves it to his son, or to his daughter, or to a hero, that person rep to this tax, rep to this patrimony and with his own law, in many cases, there are roses. This is the reality that we want to try to avoid with this reform that does not affect the middle classes, I insist, affects the richest sectors of society, economically most powerful. The last argument, which has a total level of phariseeism, is that of those who try to settle the conflict between powerful and middle classes, tells us: "It is that you do something that only affects middle classes, because the powerful of truth, they do not pay because they elude payment through heritage societies. What a cynical argument! The same ones that approve tax avoidance measures, the same ones that have been approved by the Sicav, the same ones that have approved the special rules for property companies, the same ones that approve tax amnesty, the same ones that socially justify evasion and tax fraud are then presented, based on the negative consequences of their decisions, to give the solution. The pact between the powerful, between the 1_per_cent and the 5_per_cent, consists of the fact that no one pays tax, and they transfer responsibility for the situation and consequences to 95_per_cent of the citizenry. Yes, that's what's going on. And an important debate, which has now appeared: the debate around effort, the culture of effort. Gemma Lienas said something that she was outraged by – and also by me – the statements of Mr Homs, which are reproduced in many cases by the Catalan right: « Those who live from the subsidy, those who have no culture of effort, those who do not strive to work... What curiosities, eh? The merit for the poor, because when it comes to applying merit to the child of the rich: plutocracy; it is to say, accumulation of assets and not paying anything. Merit for the poor, plutocracy for the rics. This is the double standard characterizing this debate. Remember: the inequality that is at this time in our society is fundamentally of return, but of heritage; it says the study that has published Piketty a while ago, yes, the great inequality in these moments is of heritage, it is what makes the poor and the deep inequality perpetuate. And it suggests acting on the asset tax and on the inheritance tax, and it's not exactly a Bolshevik proposal, it's a proposal taken over by many sectors, even powerful sectors of the United States, from this point of view. Well, that's the proposal we're putting them up and asking them to give us the opportunity to debate it. We're just asking Junts for the yes that gives us the opportunity to discuss it. We accept that we can change things, we accept that we can modify some of our plans, but give the debate an opportunity to reform the inheritance tax. Give it to her. But what's going on? So, at the historical position of the Popular Party and Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, of a class block, it turns out that, surprisingly, the companies, friends, of the Republican Left of Catalonia are now added. I look at your discussions of the year 2013, when my company Josep Vendrell put forward a preliminary proposal before this. What did Pere Aragonès say – do they sound like? , the current secretary of Economics – literally said: "We are in favour of recovering the inheritance tax, and we are recovering because the 2011 reform reduced its recaptancy and left its natural much altered. He said, moreover, that the proposal we made was correct, but he continued: "But we cannot vote for it because we have a pact with Convergence and Union that compromises our governance. Well, that pact led to a 2014 reform, which we recognize is true that alleged the negative impact of the 2011 reform, but alleged it, it didn't solve it. That's why we suggest at these times, we put them to the Republican Left Company of Catalonia... – to the Democratic Convergence we no longer want to ask them about because we know what they think and who they are defending – but to the Republican Left Company of Catalonia we ask them to let us – they leave us –, clearly, to be able to discuss this, because they come back to what their position has always been; they come back to that reform of 2010 that can be improved yet, that would allow us to obtain more resources to make social policies. It seems that this will not be possible because it seems..., I don't get into how the groups are organized, it seems that together for the Yes they have divided the work: some, the Republican Left, make statements, and the others, the Democratic Convergence, pose the policy; each decides how it wants to do things. In any case, allow me to say one thing to you, from the most absolute respect for all those who wish not to process this bill – obviously everyone has the right to do what he wants, it could not be otherwise, it is all worthy–, sure that there are arguments, they are defendable, but, please, after voting against the processing of the inheritance and donation tax reform, do not tell us after they do not have the resources to do social policies. At least we can get rid of this. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.170.0	Thank you, Congressman. In addition, for the defense of the totality emena presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, has the word Ms.Carmina Castellví.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.171.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. The proposal of the law presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is possible to start from the Law 19/2010, of 7 June, of regulation of the tax, and proposes a whole series of modifications, one of which in greater or lesser intensity have already been introduced a few more than two years ago in the Law 2/2014, of 27 genera, of administrative, financial and public tax measures. Thus, the regulation in force in Article 2 of the Parental Reduction Act is as follows: "In the acquisitions for the cause of death, the reduction that corresponds between the following by reason of the degree of parenthood between the buyer and the cause applies. Group I : acquisitions for younger descendants of twenty-one years; EUR 100,000 plus EUR 12,000 for each year of less than twenty-one who held the cause up to a limit of 196. Group II: acquisition by descendants of twenty-one years or more, spouses and ascendants; spouse, 100,000_euros; son, 100,000_euros; remaining descendants, 50,000_euros; ascendants, 30,000_euros. Group III, acquisitions for second- and third-degree collaterals and for ascendants and descendants by affinity 8,000_euros. Which, of course, the proposed law submitted amounts to 9,000. « To group IV, acquisitions by fourth degree or more distant collaterals and for strangers, does not apply any reduction by parental reason. Therefore, the reductions per parent have already been recently reduced, with the effects of the 1st of February 2014, respecting the approvals for the Law 19/2010. It may be recalled, for example, that with the 2010 law the reduction for Group I had been 275,000 euros, plus an additional 33,000 euros for each year of less than twenty-one, with a limit of 539,000 euros; since 2014, however, this limit has been lowered to less than half, 196,000 euros. And the same has happened with the rest of the groups; in the case of a spouse, the reduction has increased from 500,000 to 100,000; in the case of children and adopted, from 275,000 to 100,000; in the case of the remainder of descendants, from 150,000 to 50,000; in the case of ascendants and adopted, from 100,000 to 30,000; in the case of cohabitations of mutual aid, from 150,000 to 50,000, and in the case of second and third degree collaterals, from 50,000 to 8,000_euro. The law of 2014 made, therefore, a reduction of the reductions, and allow me the redundancy, spectacular force. They divided by five the reduction applicable to the spouse and the rest of the reductions remained around a third of what they were in 2010. Re-downgrade the import of the cuts now, when it was only two years ago that they cut so sharply, it doesn't seem the most appropriate. On the other hand, it should be recalled that in this same 2014 measurement law, the additional reduction regulated in Articles 30 and 31 of Law 19/2010, which increases the recaptancy, was abolished. The purpose of the 2014 reform was precisely, and as expressed in the preamble to said law, to compliment Resolution 323/10 of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the general political orientation of the Government, of 27 September 2013, in which the Government is urged to reform the regulation of the tax with the aim of increasing its progress and achieving a recaptancy similar to that obtained before the previous tax reform. Therefore, the measures such as the contingencies at the proposed law of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia have already been implemented Yes, it is Pot. Let the 2014 reform apply for a longer time, give its fruits and the day will come to make any adjustments. However, we have to bear in mind that the recapitulation for inheritance tax increased from EUR 222_million in 2014 to EUR 378,7_million in 2015, with an increase of 70,6_per_cent. So let's not go so bad. The proposal involves reversing the imports of the reduction to which they were in force just before the 2010 reform, but, moreover, with the fixing of imports to half in the event that the taxpayer applies any of the specific reductions provided for by the law for the acquisition of benefits to business or professional activity, for the acquisition of participations, for the acquisition of assets of cultural heritage, etc. In this case, moreover, these reduced imports appear to be in contravention of the rules of regulatory competition in the imposition of estates and donations established in the Tax Cessation Act in the sense of the regulation of autonomous communities of state reductions. It has to be done in terms of state regulation or improving its requirements. Concretament, says: "The autonomous communities may regulate those established by the rules of the State while maintaining those in conditions similar to those established by the State or by improving those by increasing the amount or percentage of reduction, extending the number of persons eligible for it or reducing the requirements to be able to apply it. Article 48 of Law 22/2009. The rule, therefore, is that Catalonia can improve the situation of its taxpayers for what it does to the reductions, but do not stifle it, as it claims the proposal of law that you have presented. This is the autonomy we have right now. These are the rules of the game imposed on us by the Centralistic State. We can't put in place a tax system so long as Catalonia isn't an independent state. I, for the purpose of the proposal for a new wording of Article 30 of Law 19/2010 of 7 June– which was, of course, already repealed by Article 122.4 of Law 2/2014 of 27 of generation–, supposes the introduction of a variable reduction on the taxable basis when this is less than EUR 100,000_; and, moreover, the contributor completes certain requirements: being of the parent group I or II, having a taxable base not exceeding EUR 100,000_ and a pre-existing patrimony that does not exceed the amount of EUR 402,678_ with eleven cents. The proposal is open to confusion, since, in paragraph 2 of the explanatory statement, it talks about the new Article 30 and it is said that it is for the donors of groups I and II, when the text of the proposal states that it is a reduction only applicable to acquisitions on the basis of death and not to donations that are made alive. The proposed variable reduction, moreover, has technical problems. As the effect of this reduction is to obtain a taxable base equal to zero, it must be borne in mind that there will be a balance error for those taxpayers who combine the stated conditions with a higher taxable base, and, finally, in the event that the taxable base is very close to EUR 100,000. Imagine two successions that are processed at the hour. In one case, the taxable base is 100,000 euros, and the variable reduction is applied at zero. In the other case, the taxable base is one euro plus: 100.001_euro; i, then, there is no longer a variable reduction and the taxable base is 100.001_euro. With a _euro of difference the result is radically different: it is changed from a zero_euro base to a 100.001_euro base. Finally, the proposal involves repealing the reform introduced by Law 3/2011, derogating from which, in fact, abolishing quota subsidies for Group I and II taxpayers. Two observations, respect. We believe that the object of the derogation is to abolish quota subsidies. To that end, the derogation provision should refer to the derogation of Article 58a of Law 19/2010. Within the scope of the previous technical observation, it should be noted that the general subsidy for groups I and II of 99_percent of the quota has been modified for Law 2/2014 in the sense of reducing the percentages as the taxable base of the taxpayer increases, so that a greater progressive tax rate is set and these percentages are fixed in half when the taxpayer applies any of the specific reductions to which we have previously referred. The application of the proposed measures must, in fact, entail a substantial increase in the recovery of the tax; however, in a context where the totality of the autonomous communities has declined a very favourable tax for group I and group II, with subsidies of up to 99_per_cent in some cases, can suppose the displacement of taxable facts, a situation which does not only harm Catalonia's imposition of future inheritances, but also the annual taxation of the IRPF and of the tax on the assets of the future causer, which transferred its residence to other territories of the Spanish State. All this, meaning that damage may be object of study some type of modification of the more moderate tax, which I persecuted, in the same line of the 2014 reform, the maintenance or improvement of the progressiveity of the tax, but without encouraging any displacement of personal assets. The Catalans do not deserve to increase their fiscal pressure without a serious study of its consequences, with a proposal for reform that has been taken care of, or to address the problems arising from a financing system that discriminates against them. That is why the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes will present this issue to the totality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.172.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, for the defense of totality, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Enric Millo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.173.0	Thank you, Madam President. MPs, MPs, Mr. Coscubila, there are things we can sometimes agree on, even from the ideological discrepancy, and we're looking for ways to find common ground, aren't we? But there are materials in which, practically, it is impossible, and this is one of them. When we talk about taxes it's practically impossible to agree with you, because you're all resolving it by pushing them, and our goal, usually, whenever it is possible, is to lower them. So, there's a very important difficulty here, isn't there? The case we are dealing with today, especially the inheritance and donation tax, is a case for us very significant, very significant. The year 2011, as it was earlier thought, following the example of other autonomous governments and thanks to the agreements, at that time, pushed for the same Catalan People's Party, Catalonia was added to the list of autonomous communities in which, in practice, the inheritance and donation tax was practically abolished. The Law 3/2011 of 8 June, amending the Law 19/2010, of 7 June, regulating the taxation of estates, included Article 58a, specifically, in which it was created for the taxpayers of groups I and II, a 99_percent increase in the tax share of the taxation on estates in acquisitions due to death. This bonus represented a general exemption from the tax for most Catalans, and thus gave a clear answer to a strong social demand, which, after all, had provoked strong mobilizations. But it lasted a little. The year 2014, taking advantage of the change of political majority in this Parliament... – and a moment ago we listened to it..., happened that the Member, clear, however, quoted the use of the word, neglected to explain this first part, didn't she? , of the small season in which Catalonia was assimilated to what passes to the rest of Spain –, the year 2014, as I say, taking advantage of the change of political majorities in this Parliament – in that case, Convergence and Union conditioned for the Republican Left of Catalonia –, this rule was changed. And Law 2/2014, of the 27 generation, of fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures maintained the 99_per_cent bonus only for the spouses, but introduced a progressive graduation of the bonus for the rest of the contributors of groups I and II. In this way, and with other small modifications, the generalization of the bonus that had been approved in 2011 was suppressed with the vote against, as you can imagine, of the People's Party. It became very clear that Catalonia was only taxed when the Catalan People's Party influenced the government's decisions. [[remorse of the voice]] But they fight, quickly, when the left comes into power. And this is the drama. This is the tragedy that Catalans and Catalans see: when the Catalan People's Party influences, they lower taxes in Catalonia; when the left again seizes power, they push the taxes, and, therefore, the Catalans' butchaques and Catalans are darkened. This is the motto for which the Catalan People's Party submitted a proposal for lowering the inheritance tax and donations in the latter month of March 2015. What happens is that it could not be debated and voted because the government decided to call early elections, and therefore this bill that the People's Group had tabled in the previous legislature could not be submissive to debate and vote. But exactly what I was trying to do was get back to the previous situation, the situation that we had achieved for all Catalans in 2011. Imagini's, therefore, if we are far from the proposal that today makes us the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, that not only does not recover the previous situation, but that the one who pretends, in our hearing and opinion, is to make it worse for Catalans. So we find ourselves in front of a proposal which, as I say, expresses exactly the opposite of what we have been defending in this Parliament for the past 15 years, because the first time the People's Party in this Parliament has submitted a proposal to eliminate the inheritance and donation tax dating back to the year 2000. And these are, therefore, principles that our defence party will continue to defend in the future. There is, in fact, a broad consensus that inheritance and donation tax is a tax that harms us by the tax competition that it causes with other autonomous communities, by the comparative burden that it produces because of the better tax treatment established in other areas of Spain. In fact, Convergence and Union had defended, even in their 2010 election program, the total and immediate elimination of the inheritance and donation tax, which has always been incomplete. It is no surprise that they continue to lose votes from abroad among their former voters for changing the defense of the economy of the middle classes and workers, for the separation process, that the only thing that causes mistrust, instability and separation from their own traditional voters. It is not a coincidence, either, that new European Union countries do not have the tax on inheritance and donations, and in others it is clearly reduced. The reality of which you, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, and the rest of the parties on the left of this Parliament want to turn us away, is the reality that is lived in two autonomous communities and in the outlying territories, which apply symbolic imports to the tax of successions and donations for reasons caused by death often with bonuses, as I said a moment ago, of the 99_per_cent in the degrees of parenthood I and II: Asturias, the Balearic Islands, the Canary Islands, Cantàbria, Castella - La Manxa, Galicia, Extremadura, Madrid, Murcia, La Rioja, Navarre and the Basque Country. And we don't want the Catalans to pay for that many other rights in the rest of Spain are no longer paid. What we have been claiming and defending – for fifteen years now, as I said, I have made myself clear – is suppression, the elimination of inheritance tax and donations. It is true that no one else defends this position in this Parliament; we have remained alone, but it is also good that everyone knows it. In the speech – sometimes we listen to it in the electoral campaigns – there are statements and proposals that please the ear of Catalans and Catalans; then, here in Parliament, as you see, reality is another good difference. But we'll still be defending him. The position of the Popular Parit in relation to this issue will not change. We continue to be in favour of the elimination, of the suppression of this tax, responding, as I said a while ago, to a great social demand. In fact, this tax, the tax on estates and donations, is a clearly confiscating, unjust, antiquated and outdated tax that decapitizes and goes against the student. You don't feel like keeping that tax. If a person buys a good... – even though Mr. Coscubiela tried before, this, to deny it –, if a person buys a good, he already pays the taxes associated with the consumption of this good. If you get this good, whether it's moving capital or work, you already pay the associated taxes on these returns: the IBI, the IRPF, asset transfers, companies, in any of their formulas. The acquisition, the tenure, the use and the yield of the goods already pays tribute with the different forms that exist, taxes, right? Therefore, if anyone has already faced these income taxes or has already paid them when they are bought or when they come, they must, in our view, have the freedom to do with them that you consider opportune, either by giving them or by leaving them in inheritance. How do you feel that, at these times, often, when death is produced, or by donation, many times, more often than not, in difficult situations of the possible heresies, that sometimes even they find themselves under the obligation to be indebted or with difficult liquidity problems that do not allow them to recover the inheritance..., how did you feel to record in this situation the people who are worthy of this heritage of their parents or who have decided to leave them in inheritance? That is why, I repeat, we have expressed – and let us bear in mind today at this session – our clear will to continue working to defend the suppression of unjust, confiscational and obsolete tax, inheritances and donations. Catalonia Yes, it can defend this proposal of law, at least it also explains it in its presentation of motius, for a question related to a formula, a way to increase the entrances, a formula to compensate for the financial situation of the Generalitat. And what we have to say is that we are not prepared – we are not willing – to accept that the mismanagement of public resources, which has led us to deficits and unsustainable debts, is now precisely the argument or, better yet, the excuse to maintain and increase this confiscation charge. It's not that way. We do not see that this is the formula; there are other ways, and, above all, there is a much more useful formula, which is to rationalise expenditure and not to upset public money with objectives and with the ends that they have nothing to do with the productive economy, nor with the creation of employment, nor with the social services, nor with education, nor with salvation, which is what is currently happening with this Government. This proposition of the law, therefore, that you present today only comes from the desire of the recaptancy that has always characterized them, especially where they have the possibility to govern, and which causes after economic disasters with difficult social consequences that everyone knows. We, the Catalan People's Party, have a clear position in fiscal matters, in tax reduction whenever possible; in favour of the productive economy and rationality of spending to ensure the state of welfare making it sustainable over time – and this is the only way to do it well–; in favour of the enormous fiscal burden that Catalans are currently under. And not because I'm saying it... – now you were also trying to prove that this is not true – so, this is the truth, and we also talked about it in the previous plenary: Catalans support a fiscal pressure over the middle of the rest of the Spanish autonomous communities, and, moreover, they support a number of taxes that are much higher than the rest of the communities; concretely, Catalans support fifteen taxes that are, fifteen, when the next autonomous community that is more andalusia, that is, that is, that is, and the rest, that is, that they have two, three, and they have four. Therefore, our position, as I say, is clear: to allege the tax burden, to generate growth policies, not to darken the Catalans' buttocks and to maintain as objective the rationality of expenditure. In conclusion: the malarbaration of public money, in our view, cannot be justified by pushing taxes on Catalans. And that must be made clear; there are other solutions. And it is not possible to store either the mismanagement or the mismanagement generating and causing increases in fiscal pressure so that Catalans pay more than they currently pay. We are committed to an economic policy that fostered credibility, trust, economic growth and job creation. Therefore, we will never support any measure, arbitrarily, unwarranted or necessary, which generates an increase in fiscal pressure. This is the reason for which we have presented our speech to the totality and for which, therefore, you do not count on the support of the People's Party to proceed with this initiative. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.174.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then, to the contrary, has the word Mr. Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.175.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Millo, I feel deeply proud; the best thing you could have given us today is to say that you and we are clearly confronted, we are antipodes in the field of fiscal policy. He did a good diagnostic. You don't have to pass them by, in any case, to the rest of the deputies and deputies that the Catalan right and the Spanish right usually use the same concept of society. Catalans and Spaniards, society without classes. He is just as much the collector of the minimum wage as the one who pays five hundred times more than the collectors of the minimum wage. Remember, Mr. Millo, Spain and Catalonia have at these moments a 8_per_cent tax ticket under the middle of the European Union. Or else "unsustainable social pressure, that's what it's all about. In any case, the employees, who pay the consequences of the tax evaders you employ [[Funnel veils]] When I don't – I don't say you, but your surroundings – they're responsible for this escape and this fraud. Listening to the PP today defending Catalans from an excess of taxes is like listening to a pyramid complaining that it's full of fires in society. That's the feeling I had today. But, well, we were hoping for you; but I hope you haven't missed the fact that it's all you and wrongly together for Yes who today, in the name of the Catalan defense, in general, are protecting 5_percent of taxpayers from the inheritance tax and donations to the detriment of those people who need those tickets to be able to re-establish social policies. That's the point! Please, stop putting the name Catalan and Spanish in your mouth. Catalonia and Spain are a tremendously complicated thing, and, above all, there are social classes, sure, and every time with more inequality, and every time with more differences, and every time with poorer, and you are responsible for this. For this very theme I am surprised – I am surprised – that Carmina Castellví has chosen to justify her whole goal with a whole series of questions, which we respect. Look, if the problems are concrete regulation, if the problems are detailed, if the problems are technical, we don't have any type of problem to discuss with you how to improve it. What you said today I'm willing to discuss with you, but you won't leave me, you won't let me do that at the commission stage. And I fixed 'you' in the argument that you used: you didn't feel that they had made a reform in 2014 now we changed it, in 2016; let me mature. Home, you didn't let the reform of the tripartite fame mature in 2010, did you? [[Some applause.]] The first one to make Convergence and Unity and the Lord But when they came in to rule was to throw themselves to move the inheritance and donation tax, and to take away all that he could, until he left it naked, undressed. Or else it could have been applied at that time. We already have elements, Mrs. Castellví, we have elements..., we have data. It turns out that the best that happened in 2014, that I recognized, that I don't deny it, is a better one that doesn't significantly contribute anything to the move that imposed on the estate tax and donates the reform of the Lord But and the Lords of the People's Party, which in this are two drops of water, the year 2011. They recovered in 2015, with provisional liquidation 130_millions and bail, and these have a share that has nothing to do with the legislative change, but with the capital increase of the taxable base. Have you looked at the 2016 implementation advance of the inheritance and donation tax? It's like this, in the dark. And, obviously, Mr. Junquera's presuppositionary predictions with his assumptions... the warmest one is to the water, but how should we square the presuppositions as it was, water, give them there, how that what he sees from Madrid cannot be changed and the public deficit do not want to force him, so, then, what do we say? That's right. We're dealing with taxes that are good and good. What do we do? We artificially push the expected tickets. We're on a 23_per_cent execution level. Look at what I'm saying – I can make a mistake, and if I can make a mistake, I'll recognize it –: 2016 ended with tickets that look like 2015; therefore, they only recovered a tiny part of what took away from us the 2011 reform that Convergence and Union agreed with the People's Party. And that's normal, I've already said, "Democratic Convergence of Catalonia and the People's Party are the artifices of the Spanish tax system, they've done it all together by hand; with a difference, that when Convergence sees here he puts the blame there, that they are. We're done here, all right. Now, please, really, with all due respect, with the..., the other day I listened to Mr. Junqueras, who said: "We can do another fiscal policy, but that's why we need other majorities. All right. And when it is put on the table the possibility to have other policies and other majorities, the Republican Left of Catalonia and their travel companions... Mr. Comín, remember, you, what you said in 2011 with that story? You have presented yourself as the great defender that the tripartite does not make a tougher reform. So, look, all those advices you gave to your so-called Lord Castells, Antoni Castells, applies today. Act conscientiously and you may vote more like it. If you vote by discipline, you and others will know that you are consolidating the policy of the whole life of Mr. Mas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.176.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.177.0	Mr. But and Mr. Puigdemont aren't the same, Mr. Mas-Colell and Mr. Junqueras aren't the same...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.178.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.179.0	...but for now they're doing the same politics. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.180.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, in order to fix its position, has the word Mr. Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.181.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Councillor..., ladies and gentlemen, inheritance and donation tax is an existing figure in almost all tax systems in OECD countries. And in Citizens we are in favour of it for its redistributive effect, for its contribution to improving equal opportunities and for promoting the fairness of the tax system as a whole. We do not, therefore, want to eliminate it, but we do want to improve the tax, if we want to improve it, we want it to be a tax that graves the great fortunes and not the middle and working classes, we want it not to penalise the families that have saved and invested to leave an inheritance to their children, and we want the Spanish citizens to pay similarly regardless of where they live. Our position in relation to the proposal of law presented to us Catalonia Yes, it is Pot will be the abstention, justified by the shortcomings and differences that regarding our model presents us his proposal. As for the lack, there is a lack of a minimum reference, albeit minimal, to the need to correct the great difference and disparity in taxation between the autonomous communities. As far as tax is concerned, you, we, all know that very high tax subsidies and reductions have been introduced in the tax base. The result is the emptying or disappearance, for practical purposes, of the tax. And that in turn is generating very important differences in inheritances and donations of a similar amount. We have a problem of equity through this tax figure and in Spain as a whole. According to the autonomous community where he resides, an inheritance of 800,000 euros pays eighty times less in one than in another, huh? Eighty times less, look at the data. Well, it is not surprising, therefore, that in recent years the transfer of wealth residences from one autonomous community to others has become customary with the aim of taking advantage of so succulent and juicy fiscal improvement. To avoid such transfers and grievances between citizens has begun...– we all know it, and the PP, for it is delighted with it – it is a downward fiscal competition between autonomous communities, which has produced a downward fiscal harmonisation. There are those who say that they do not want to talk about harmonisation at all, but the truth is that it is harmonising fiscally, but above and above the low. Well, what we want is fiscal harmonisation, the consequence of which is not to cancel the tax, and we do so in line with the tax harmonisation that we believe the European Union itself needs. We believe that a current reform of corporate tax must involve the simplification of the tax, and none of that we see in the proposal presented by Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. We believe that the number of bonuses and deductions should be eliminated or reduced. From our point of view, we must also reduce the kinship groups, which in our view should remain in three: an integrated group..., a first group, group A, consisting of the spouse, the ascendants and descendants by direct line, adopted and adopted; a second group, group B, consisting of secondary and third-degree collateral relatives, and relatives by affinity up to the third degree; and a group C, which would include the rest of other persons not included in the previous groups. The simplification proposed by Citizens also affects tax rates, and in our view it is desirable that a state regulation should set maximum and minimum tax limits in order to mitigate the differences that exist today in the tax treatment of inheritances or donations of similar amounts. There is scope for activity, for autonomous work, but we believe that percentages should be defined by groups that can be established in the respective autonomous communities. We think that facilities should be introduced into the liquidation, in order to avoid that for lack of liquidity there should be resignations in the inheritances, or resignations, rather, to the inheritances; resignations that have multiplied by four over the last few years, huh? , according to the Spanish College of Registrars, notaries. We believe that a more flexible and generous system of postponements and splits that the current regime offers must be established; precisely, it can also be offered, and logically, with the guarantee of the assets of the inheritance itself. We support the abolition of existing asset ratios. Look, the progressive tax must rest on the tax scale itself, and the existence of coefficients in some cases raise the tax to 80_per_cent. That does make it, and they will have to give me reason, in a disproportionate and confiscatory effect. As for the amendments, I have spoken of aspects that I do not find in the proposal that you have brought us. I am now going to talk to you about those aspects which are in fact being taken up and which are the changes that you are making to us. Well, we fully agree with the deletion of the 99_per_cent bonus established by Law 3/2011 and which partly maintains Law 2/14. We think precisely that this form..., that these kinds of bonuses mean precisely that: cancel and empty the tax that we want to maintain, even if it is adapted to the current socio-economic reality, but we do not want to cancel it. However, it seems to us that the amount of EUR 100,000_, below which first-degree relatives would not have to pay, is insufficient. We believe that this amount should be higher, it should be raised, because if we are not penalizing those families whose parents have been able to work but have decided to save and invest to leave an inheritance to their children. That must also be kept in mind. And we think, therefore, that we must raise – we must raise – the deduction for children and spouses, and place enough above the 100,000_euro. Nor do we share that the usual housing is exempt only up to 500,000_euros. We believe that it should be fully exempted in cases of acquisition by first-degree descendants or ascendants and the spouse. Always – always – and conditioned that it would have constituted the habitual dwelling of the cause and will be the dwelling of the acquirer for five years. But we think that in this case we have to be much more..., have a..., expand the capacity of exemption and exceed the 500,000_euros, especially because in large cities these 500,000_euros seem a lot and are no longer so much, if you do a market study. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a bill with too many shortcomings, which before its submission should have been the subject of greater consensus so that at least the whole debate would have been overtaken. In Citizens we think that today could have been an opportunity to improve, or open the opportunity to improve the tax, but Junts for Yes and PP will not allow it, and our group will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.182.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.183.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies, so, well, today, Catalonia Yes, it is possible to propose to us this proposal of law to modify the tax of estates and donations, just when a few days ago the government presented to us the proposal of Law of assumptions, and also Law of measures. And that's why we could think of a repeated or repeated debate, because, in fact, one week from now we're going to be debating the assumptions. But the truth is that, when you saw the latest news, from this middle, from the CUP in which I asked the government to return the assumptions and present to us some others, it seems to me that it is more important than ever that we discuss this initiative. And it's not just that we debate it, but that we can process it, because there's no presuppositions anyway... And, on the other hand, it would be very important for us to proceed with this bill's proposal to achieve two important things, at least, which we share with the Socialists Group in the Catalonian Group Yes, it is possible: one, to increase the possible entries – said Mr Coscubila and I want to reinforce this element – and two, to achieve more progress and to redistribute the entries in a much fairer way. Therefore, I believe that we could share everyone, the right and the left, because in the end, they listen, more tickets we need, as badly as the finances are. And so, I'm listening, I'm modifying a tax because there's more tickets than anyone should be against. And then, that a tax is more progressive, so it seems that, from the start, it should not be. But, well, we've already listened, for example, so the intervention of the Member of Parliament Millo, also from the Member of Parliament Junts for the Yes, and then, then, I'm going to go in a little bit more detail. But, well, we didn't just defend it, I, these two groups, Catalonia Yes, it's Pot or the Socialist Party, that in motions, plus, we've already incorporated, we've put black on white to modify this tax, but it does, for example, the Fair Taxation Platform, where there are a lot of entities, and they ask us, that's right. It's to say that we're not just ourselves, but there's a lot of people who think they're weighing themselves down, from the beginnings of the crisis, but you make them work and a lot of rich, but a little rich got or inherited, it's the same. But there is always a very important effort on the part of middle classes and workers, obliving..., well, obliving and helping, because, of course, Mr. Millo, forgive me, remember that you only made a tax amnesty come to the government, or increased VAT. Because, of course, you say: "We always lower taxes. Well, then, listen, they increased VAT, one of the most unfair taxes, because VAT affects everyone alike, to which it earns 6,000 euros a year or to which it earns 200,000. Therefore, more injustice is this than the inheritance tax, which we believe is that it should be taxing the great fortunes, the great assets, not the person who inherits 200,000 euros or 100,000 euros or a habitual habitation that is, obviously, exempt from the inheritance tax. It's just that, sometimes, you want to trick us too, and you need to, from time to time, make memories. And, to pose a given..., a given that refers to an analysis that you could do, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: the returns of the job meant, in 2007, a 36_percent of the recaptancy and, in 2012, a 42; when you render them of the job, basically, a 92_percent come from the salaries. It's like, every time you get more tickets by the way of work returns and you forget... [[Funnel veils]] – yes, yes – they are obliging themselves to tax the heritage and the great heritage. And what is raised here, in this bill's proposal, is that we debate, with the materials that we need, how to get more tickets to record those that they have most because they have inherited it, and, therefore, they have not achieved it with their effort, as you spoke. And it is true, 2011 was approved a modification of the tax that almost eliminated it, thanks to the support of Convergence and Union and the People's Party, and I would like to say to him: "Home, the inheritance tax that is a confiscation tax..., confiscation tax surely is the co-sponsorship of the Law of Dependencies, but not the inheritance tax, Mr Millo. Which is that you, sometimes, make a statement that God does not exist. In any case, it is true: again, the Catalan and Spanish right eliminated the inheritance tax in Catalonia and it was not until 2014 that Esquerra Republicana told us that thanks, therefore, to his insistence he managed to modify it. An increase of 100_million euros a year, not enough. At these times, we're around 300; we could reach 700, 800..., I don't say 1,000_millions of 2008 anymore; but, well, as a minimum, yes, 800. Therefore, we are avoiding entering 400_million. As families who don't go in for groceries, those people who have trouble getting to the end of the month, so surely political ones that can be done with these resources of more good will go well. And sometimes it's too much magic with that. But, well, he wanted to go back to Republican Left, because Republican Left told us, at that time, that he had gotten this little change because, of course, he was not in government, he was an uncomfortable partner for Convergence and Union, and that, in any case, we saw more of him passing by. So, wow, now we're in the middle of something. Now it turns out that the vice president of the government is Oriol Junqueras, is responsible for turning on economic policy..., and, listen, there is no change in the estate tax, no intention of changing that. There is no line in the Bill of Measures on this subject, and now that they have the opportunity to allow the processing of this law, it seems they will not do so because they have presented us with an issue to the totality. So, I don't know, maybe he's hooked up before a lie that a dick, but the case is that here today you don't have the courage to set up the processing and allow the processing of this law, and neither do you to your law of measures that you have presented. I can imagine that it must be difficult to agree in such a diverse group and so, say, complex ideologically. In fact, with the intervention made by Mrs Castellví, we have already seen, a very technical intervention, which went into detail... I would like to say to her: "Perfect, we can agree with some things, we debate it with a ponència – I debate it with a ponència – and we can go into detail. Not here, there was no technical debate here today; but, of course, you had to do it because probably in your Group of Joints for Yes there are so many different views about the modification of this tax that it is better to go to the technical and leave the background for another day or for another environment. But I sincerely would like to say that I could play, as I did in other points, as in the labor reform, which voted different Left than Convergence. Perhaps this is also the moment when you vote differently, because you have the opportunity to do so, and allow the processing of this proposal of law of Catalonia Yes it is. I think now would be the time. And, look, if you don't remember, it seems to me that Mr. Coscubiela and I, who didn't talk, but, we've kept the same record, I haven't been looking for the intervention he did, which was there in 2010 when the inheritance tax law was approved. And I would like to remind you of an interesting debate that took place between Deputy Comín and Deputy Fernández Teixido ;. An interesting debate that Congressman Comín was holding back to Fernández Teixido, who was of the Drets, because he did not want to increase a tax, because he did not want to redistribute the wealth, and that was, I said, "clearly of the Drets; he accused him of doing the same thing that the People's Party did to other autonomous communities. It's interesting to read this debate. Finally, I said – and today we can repeat it because it is so – that a widow who inherits EUR 1,3_million would pay EUR 14,000, which seems reasonable to me because, if we stay, this lady still has resources ahead of her, and a son who inherits EUR 1_million would have to pay EUR 10,000. It is to say that we are talking, in my opinion, about very reasonable figures and, in addition, about people who would have to pay in the event that there are important figures here, because the bonuses and many elements are exempt here. But, well, that's the thing. It turns out that the deputy Comín – and today not Fernández Teixidó, but his group to which he belonged –, today, forms part of the same group of Junts for the Yes ; but, still, they seem quite irreconcilable ideologically these two visions that they had at that time, in 2010, six years ago, on which it was the inheritance tax. So irreconcilable, however, that today they present this message to the Totality Together for the Yes and the Popular Party, that, again, they give their hand as they gave it, for example, so, voting against the Education ILP, because what is true is that very often the PP and Convergence and Union is giving their hand, in this case, Together for the Yes. Therefore, we would ask some of the deputies of Junts for the Yes, especially those who conform to the Republican Left to reflect – it is that they reflect – at the time of voting on this processing of the law because we can talk about everything, but we allow it to be passed because if we do not get to have assumptions we can increase the entries that allow us to make more political, not only social, but economic reactivation that go so far under these assumptions. In the end, we ask them nothing more than what you have done at the point of labor reform. And, look, now, to finish, let me ask you a question that I'm starting Fernández Teixido six years ago, and that's very quiet right now. He finished his intervention by saying this, he gave it to the Member of Convergence and Union, I say today to the Deputy of Junts for the Yes: "On behalf of five principles, of which politics, on behalf of five country models, on behalf of which idea of social justice, you say that a person who inherits 1_million euros does not have to pay only 10,000_euros on account of inheritance tax? In the name of what idea of social justice? We are not going back to saying that your party or your parliamentary group is cross-cutting, where there are people on the right and left. None of the lefts can defend what you're here to defend. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.184.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.185.0	Good afternoon. It seems that in some sectors of this hemisphere the electoral campaign has already begun for June 26th and we are dedicated to making speeches more designed to win votes than recalling girl reforms in this Parliament in the year 2010. Now that it's talking about tax reforms again and, above all, it's talking about bass too, to us we would like, like the CUP - Crida Constituent, to make some reflections that we believe must be more political than technical of the inheritance tax. The Office of the High Commission for Human Rights warned the year 2013, in a consultation with the governments of the United Nations to assess the fiscal regime of the states, that fiscal policy is relevant to the consideration of questions of human rights and extreme poverty. "The low levels of entry," she said, "could be an obstacle..." "of tax entry," could be an important obstacle to the completion of the State's obligation to ensure the progressive development of economic, social and cultural rights. Therefore, in the background, it is not only the common sense or to be left-handed that tells us that a fair taxation enriches us and favors the conjunction of the people; it is said by the United Nations. Actually, it's not 2013 the first time you said it. The petition to promote mobilization or the mogul of resources linked to human rights is ancient. Already in 1966, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights collected the obligation of all States members of that Covenant to collect the maximum resources available to achieve progressively for all appropriate media, including the adoption of legislative measures, the full effectiveness of the rights collected there; economic, social and cultural rights. And it is more, in the last few years – and it has already been mentioned, but there is more – the Platform for a Fair Taxation..., but the citizenry, by means of tides, assemblies and various platforms, has denounced that the management of the crisis has entailed the increase of inequalities and the subordination of rights to the interests of the markets. But he has not only made complaints, but has also drawn up proposals to increase public spending by obtaining the necessary resources from taxes with criteria of fairness, equality and progress. Once again this reflection, which we believe to be absolutely relevant at the time we find ourselves, we also want to reflect at the time we find ourselves with the inheritance and donation tax, and we see this current situation. Because, if we remember, at a time when the effects of the crisis and the need for resources to deal with the social impact of this crisis were already absolutely evident, the tripartite was carrying out a reform that reduced the recaptancy that was indispensable to deal with those social needs; social needs, now, are more difficult. Therefore, the facts show us with sufficient clarity that, for what it does in taxation, the priorities of the last government of the tripartite and Convergence and Union were not too different. Instead of demanding the efforts of the powerful, they dedicated themselves to exempting them from their responsibilities demanding effort to the most disadvantaged. If female, the impact of the tripartite reform on the inheritance and donation tax represented a reduction in the sum of €350 million over the first two years. And now, 2016, in the OECD, in the Spanish State, and in Catalonia, inequalities have increased more in recent years. The Gini index increased from 30.6 in 2007 to 35.1 in 2014. This increase in inequalities can also be seen reflected in the index of inequality in income distribution, which goes from 5.6 in 2009 to 6.5 in 2014. This means that in 2014 20 percent of the population with a higher economic level earned 6.5 times the 20 percent of the population with a lower economic level. The struggle against this inequality is neither possible nor effective with speeches and good intentions because it requires courage, political will to undertake the necessary political measures to do so. In exceptional times as we live, the unwillingness to change the inheritance tax and donations in a clear and effective way to demand the equalization of the efforts they have most at the company's joint venture is a clear and unhappily obvious demonstration that political exceptionality is not at the height of social exceptionality. This does not lead to a new republic of social justice. With rhetoric and no concrete facts on a subject as sensitive as this, the only thing we show is that the process represents the political space to continue doing the same thing. Autonomy and austerity dictated for the troika, executed for Montoro and followed and applied for the different governments to the length of the years of autonomy principalipatin. We understand that if the logic in which we find ourselves is post-autonomic, the taxes we propose for this stage must also have the occasion to transcend the purely autonomous order. That is to say, even though we believe that we do not currently have effective re-enactment instruments or legislative capacity, that giving taxes of a size is an advantage, here, yes, the little tax competence that we do have and that the Generality has and that often, too, we have not served as the autonomic government to introduce or tax us or locate the taxes that we can manage at the height of the circumstances. If we start a process of building a new state we don't want to start it failed and impoverished from a good start. Therefore, for the CUP - Crida It is necessary to work for the recovery of the potential recovery lost in the chain of regressive reforms aimed more upstream, or earlier. It's past the 972 million obtained for this route in 2008 around the 400 in 2015. We believe that the situation has changed, that the immobiles do not have the same value, but that we must resolutely address the reform of the tax so as to place it on the rise, as we say, of the circumstances and to show that we are starting a process with a clear objective, with the clear intention of reversing the policies until now due to completion. Therefore, obviously, as the CUP - Constituent Creed we cannot give support to the totality that I place on the table or that you debate that make progress and that, therefore, avoid the regressivity of certainly policies due to term until now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.186.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] We will proceed to the joint vote... Mr. Millo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.187.0	Thank you, President. I wanted to ask for the word, briefly, for some direct references made to me during the debate on this bill. If you give me a few seconds...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.188.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.189.0	Thank you very much, President. In the first place, to Mr Coscubala, who said that the surprise much that from the People's Party we defend all the Catalans and the rest of the Spanish, and even more he accused us that we are the ones that generate inequality, tell him that this is surely because of the difference of models that we have of reference: his is Venice and Cuba, ours is the rest of the European Union's countries. And tell him yes, we defend all the Catalans, even the richest in the CUP who have more assets than we'll ever have the ones we're gathered here... [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.190.0	Please, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.191.0	I to the lady Alicia Romero... [[some applause]] – 15, deu_seconds –, to Mrs. Alicia Romero, just an acclaim: when the income for labor returns grows is not only because there can be an increase in income, types, but because the base of people who work is bigger; for this it is so important to create occupation, that it is what the People's Party has done. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.192.0	We shall proceed to the vote... [[Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]] Mr. Coscubila, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.193.0	Mr. Millo, we thank you for modernizing and you no longer quote us from the Soviet Union, we thank you very much. At all events, my friend Eulàlia Reguant is right: some are campaigning, but I don't know how many voters are quoting Venice and Cuba because the Catalan and Spanish citizens know that those who have made policies "austericides that have brought people to poverty have been you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.194.0	We shall proceed to the joint vote on the totality presented. The vote begins. It was approved by 71 votes to 37, with 25 abstentions. As the totality reviews have been approved, this initiative remains rejected. [[Proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the Proposal for a Law amending the Law of the State 52/2007, of 26 December, for which it is recognized and extended right and measures are established in favour of those who suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship (debate of totality)]] [[270-00002/11]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the total debate on the proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the proposed law amending the Law of the State 52/2007, of 26 December, for which it is recognized and extended rights and measures are established in favour of those who suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship. In accordance with Articles 173 and 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, he presented the initiative, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferran Pedret. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.195.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors, people who accompany us from the public gallery – many of whom are part of the Association of Harmful Persons for the Incarceration of the French Government – are late. The Socialist Parliamentary Group presents this proposal to the General Courts for a proposal to amend Law 52/2007, more popularly known as the Law of Historical Memory, in order to facilitate the opening of a door for the rescue of all those persons, of all those individuals who were, in their day, affected by the confiscation of the fiduciary titles of the republican currency, both prior to the date of the infamous memorandum of 18 July 1936 with which the republican authorities later issued. It is well known, not to say, that on July 18th of the 36th a military revolt began to fall out of the Faixist, also traditionalist in some indreits, which intended to obtain a rapid victory, as had happened on many occasions in the painful tradition of military pronouncements in the history of our country. Also, it was not so for the organization of the parties and unions and popular organizations of the country and it was given place to a long and bloody civil war, which, moreover, was the front of the great European and world confrontation that followed it just after the end of our Civil War. In the face of this situation, which lasted longer than the revolts had predicted, it was quickly decided, on the part of the French authorities, that some provisions respect what to do with monetary policy. Because it was obvious that there were two zones, two different territories under the control of two different public authorities, the legitimate republican and the Franco revolt. And what the French authorities did is, with this Decree Law, of November 12, 36, consider that all those series bits and numbers placed in circulation for the Bank of Spain are invalid after the date of July 18, 36. And, moreover, it was decreed that the republican tickets of the date prior to this 18 July of the 36th should be conveniently stamped in order to be considered valid circulation in the territory dominated by the French authorities. Obviously, we can continue to discuss this at the length of the debate, but it is clear that the conditions for changing Republican tickets to other emissaries later on for the French authorities were not the same for people affected by the new rule and people disaffected by the new rule. It is obvious, therefore, that the measures that, from the technical point of view, are absolutely aseptic when read, do not have this effect, say it, aseptic, and also have, among other things, a content of repression of the bandol of the deceased. This, as I said, is already very early on, since November 12, 36, but as the war progressed and as the revolts also subdued territories and villages that until then were under the legitimate government of the Republic are issued other orders, already on April 38 and after August 38, with three different decrees, which consolidate these measures that the Francoist authorities were about. What is done is to establish ordinary change mechanisms for these republican tickets and also establish extraordinary change courts for the change of these republican tickets. In the first of the cases, those coming from dates prior to July 1936, when a decision was required to deny the change, they all went to stop, they all went to make the fund that..., the special account that was opened in the Banc d'Espanya, dominated by the French authorities, a fund with name that was "Bitllets of rejected change. When it comes to bits that were after this date of July 18th of the 36th year they came to stop at the source of « Paper coin placed in circulation for the enemy, a name that already invited to think about the type of justice, tell us, that it could be expected to get. Moreover, there was a third decree that re-edited the key and directly ordered the confiscation, against the rejection, that yes, with all the data, was at that time documented... – quite well documented –; ordered, said, the confiscation of all the Republican fiduciary signs, including the paper currency. And, besides – and that's what the key was really about – he considered the possession of these fiduciary signs to be a crime of smuggling. It is clear that if the provisions of these decrees were to be applied to persons who wanted to change the paper republic currency for paper currency that was valid before the new Franco regime..., if it was claimed that they had passed with the approval of well-known persons affected by the new regime, this confiscation also had a component of ideological bias and political repression. All in all, in a context that we cannot avoid, that is a context in which more than the war fought by the weapons, was waging, from the beginning of the confrontation, a first-class economic war on many fronts, enclosing it very interesting episodes for the historians, but of tragic effects for the people who had to survive with the currency that at that time was of circulation, enclosing it, therefore, of falsification, of planning for the deepening of the international cotitization of the republican peseta and, in the end, finally, episodes in which the republican authorities also tried to falsify the Francoist stamp so as to obtain resources to sustain the struggle of the Republic. Well, of course, as I said, you had to have contact with the new French authorities, and, besides, if you didn't change the tickets and keep in possession of them – except that they were dumb paper – you ran the risk of running the risk of a crime of smuggling. So it's obvious that there were a lot of people – especially people who didn't have these contacts between the country's masters – who simply had to give the fruit of their studios to the French authorities, just against a scrap that, with the passage of the years, was going to feel every time more obvious that a ransom would not be obtained for these... so, for this purpose, for this deposit on this coin paper fund issued by the enemy, right? In addition, we have to take into account another fact more of the context, which is..., from our perspective, let's say, sometimes we have to stop ruminating there, it is not that they do not know, obviously, the deputies and the deputies in general, but it was not as often as now to hold the stables arranged in a bank account. And so there were a lot of people who had the fruit of all their work, of all their students and, therefore, this situation, this confiscation brought a lot of people – and, obviously, especially those who did not have contact with the regime – to situations of genuine misery, if not of fame, during the post-war period. Because it is obvious that among the people to whom they were confiscated... there should be people of all ideology, of all socio-economic conditions, but it is also evident that if they were to confiscate all the students from whom these families had at their disposal, in a post-war period that was very harsh for the common people, for these people it had to be..., for these people and for these families it had to be much harder to refer to this confiscation. It is worth saying that since the recovery of democracy, at the end of the Franco dictatorship, there has been a series of legal dispositions that we have tried to rescue various collections affected by dictatorship decisions, let us say, with laws of all kinds and for all types of recipients, of recipients. From the point of view of the redemption of the patrimony, the Law 4/1986, of 8 genera, of the cessation of the assets of the accumulated patrimony of the trade union assumed a bailout for the trade union organizations of the country. Law 43/98 of 15 December 1998 on the restitution or compensation of political parties for rights confiscated in application of the regulations on political responsibilities of the period 36-39 rescued political parties to a certain extent. But the private confiscated, the money from which they were confiscated, did not find any mechanism of rescue, of compensation for what in his day was confiscated by the Franco authorities, which had, among other objectives, this objective of reopening the key of the repression on the deceased. What the Socialists are proposing is something that at this stage and in this Parliament is relatively simple, from the technical point of view, that it is simply proposing the addition of a new article to Law 52/2007, which recognises the right to bail out the individuals affected by the confiscation of paper money or other fiduciary signs, arranged by the French authorities to the account "Bitllets of rejected change or to the fund of paper money placed in circulation for the enemy, to which they have given place the decrees of 27 August 1938, or to their rights, in the terms that are normally established. No one, nor the Socialist Group, can escape the possible difficulty of putting into practice this when, as we hope, it can be approved by the General Courts which have to emerge from their own elections on June 26. Among other things, because not everyone who was confiscated has kept the papers that they believe and document. There have been many families that have done so, and these discards have gone from couple to child, but not everyone has kept it; forty years of a dictatorship in which it was most reasonable to think that these money would never see them again, so they have caused many to be lost in golf, change or have been, directly, lost, right? But there are people who have kept this documentation, and so, at least in these cases, we must be able to establish mechanisms that we refer to the Rules for the accreditation of this situation, for the accreditation of imports and mechanisms to study and to carry out after the rescue of these quantities, of these imports which in their day were confiscated. We have to think that between what I've told you, what's the object of this law, what's the question of paper money, of fiduciary titles, and what's supposed to be the blockage of current accounts, we're talking more than 25,000_million pessetas of the time. And, therefore, we would be talking, if we updated current currency, today's euro, we would be talking about huge amounts of money. In fact, a good part of the technical and non-political motivation of the Franco authorities around the question of the currency circulating during the war and after the war had much to see with the impact that this capital could assume, let's say, on the question of inflation after the war, etc. Therefore, we have to think that bringing this mass of capital today, and seeking its compensation, is a task that requires not only an absolutely scrupulous technical rigour, but also requires, let's say, serene in the way of establishing how to document that this confiscation actually took place and, let's say, let's say, the terms in which this bailout can be produced. But what this proposal wants and what we want from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, however grateful that it has not been presented to the whole of the parliamentary group, what we are asking of them is, quite simply, that we open the door, that we facilitate that for the first time there is a mechanism, a recognition of a right to which these people and, obviously, their successors can seize to seek the rescue of a situation that was absolutely unfair and that brought their families to harsh situations during the post-war period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.196.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] As long as no totality statements have been submitted, we will now proceed to the turn of interventions to fix positions. In the first place, has the word Carmen de Rivera, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.197.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to greet the group of people in the rostrum that accompany us this afternoon, the representatives in Catalonia of the Agrupación de Perjurados por la Incautación Franquista, who represent no more than two-thousand families throughout Spain, of which almost half are Catalan. Thanks to his efforts and despite several failed attempts in this very Parliament through the Committee on Petitions in the years 2010 and 2012 with constancy, with great patience and, above all, with great dignity, they have managed this afternoon to debate and agree to bring to the Congress of Deputies this proposal of law that has just been presented by Congressman Ferran Pedret. The Catalan Parliament raises this proposal to the Congress of Deputies to amend the Historical Memory Act, which involved the implementation of a great many remedial measures, but which, in turn, suffers from an important forgetfulness, which is the right of these people, or their descendants, to be compensated, since they were forced to hand over the Republican money in their possession to the Bank of Spain and never received their return. In exchange for this admission to the Banco de España a receipt was given to them – whose details I will not repeat because it has been perfectly explained by the deputy Ferran Pedret – which is the only receipt they keep, which on many occasions this receipt has been transmitted as the only family inheritance. And it's that behind that receipt, behind every receipt, there's a family story. Sometimes he was given as a dowry at the wedding of a daughter, in others he was part of an inheritance and in others he is the illusion of a grandmother or a grandfather to help that grandson who needs in these moments of crisis, after a very long crisis, to give him a hand to throw « pa'ante. Each receipt, he said, carries a story; a story of deep injustice; a story, in most cases, of fear and family deprivation. Therefore, this proposal for a law means the recognition of an unjust act and also involves political and moral reparation, and where necessary, the consequent compensation of an economic nature. And this injustice will be perpetuated if the reform we call for in this amendment of the Historical Memory Act is not achieved. For trade unions have been compensated for seizures, political parties have been compensated for seizures, and it is time for them to reach families and people. We know that all the initiatives that have been put forward in the Congress of Deputies to obtain this compensation, which is in this case for individuals and families, have not been approved, have not been successful. The last one, it is curious to read that ‘it was not the time because with this crisis, you know, now is not the time. On the other hand, it was the time of banks and savings banks; those did have their time to receive money from the state, as was the bank bailout. It is curious, because perhaps everyone thought, or many people thought, that this claim would fall into oblivion. Many thought that perhaps you would let it run, that it was in many cases older people, that many titles, or some titles, had been lost; but with you we have had a tangible demonstration that these citizens do not surrender; that they fought to claim something more than money; that you fight for their dignity and for the dignity of your ancestors. And, well, one thing has to be said in which Ferran Pedret has also emphasized: will this proposal solve the whole issue? We do not want, either of the groups, to create false illusions or make false promises, or to play with the feelings of anyone, but it is a beginning. This formula is the only one we have since the Parliament of Catalonia, and it is the best mechanism we have found to initiate this reparation, since by including in the Historical Memory Law the right to recover the confiscated money, a door is opened to start discussing the bases of this reparation. And it is that, in any case, the question of the reparation that the Historical Memory Act entailed cannot be taken for granted without including the people, more specifically this group of people and their families, who claim what their parents and grandparents could not claim: that they should return the money required under laws that obeyed a one-sided financial strategy against another side. And if we want, as is the case with this proposal, to finally pass the page of this dark period of the history of Spain, it is absolutely essential this amendment of the Historical Memory Law. Because more than economic, this is a moral reparation; it is a reparation that deepens the true reconciliation; reconciliation that must be firmly rooted in the roots of democracy and the coexistence of all citizens. Nothing more, and thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.198.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Mr. Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.199.0	Thank you, President. The name, popularly, "The Law of Historical Memory was approved for the Congress of Deputies on the September of 2007. The political space that we represent gave him support at that time: it was the first Zapatero government and on the subject of memory we all posed a lot of illusion and a lot of gain to undo a path that really, therefore, had not been at the height of the struggle and the memory of those who fought against the dictatorship. We were aware, however, at the same time that the law was approved, that the law still had shortcomings, that it was a law that could be better. And in time, obviously, from the year 2007 to the year 2016, this today is still more obvious. It is true that Catalonia was able to make a different path: laws such as the Democratic Memorial or the Foses Law, in its moment, of the Government of the Left, were able to address some aspects that in its moment, in the Law of Historical Memory of the State, could not yet be inclusive. Today, the Socialist Parliamentary Group takes a step forward, which Mr Pedret and the whole group want to thank, because it addresses one of the aspects that were left in the tinter in 2007; they were not addressed in that law and that today I believe this initiative that can bring forward the Parliament of Catalonia makes justice to a clear fact: we want the rescue of the individuals affected by the confiscation of paper money or other seeming titles. Therefore, with clarity, we will vote in favour of this parliamentary initiative, because we think, I repeat, that an issue which at the time could not be addressed, now that it must be addressed in a clear way, and it is a good thing that the Catalonian Parliament is clearly speaking because this issue is being addressed and, if possible, resolved. Let us not forget, however, that we still have a way to do it; that there are still important fears that in that law they were not addressed and even to Catalan memory laws are not present either. Obviously, the first challenge we have is the same application of the Law of Historical Memory, which has been during the four years of the absolute majority of the People's Party absolutely obliterated in a cove. Not only have there been no economic and presuppositionary resources that have been detailed and removed from the central government assumptions, but there has been no type of political will to apply a law of memory with which the People's Party never agreed, because it does not agree to remember the victims of the franchise. Another aspect that we are obviously concerned about is the issue of the ages. In Catalonia we still have more than four thousand missing people that their family members are still looking for. And, therefore, we must follow, for example, concepts such as the DNA bank and other aspects in order to be able to clearly recognize the people who are still missing, especially in the period of the Civil War, but you know that, in the conjunct of the State, this issue was not addressed to the Law of Historical Memory and that we have dozens and dozens of thousands of buried people at the corners of our careers. Obviously there are more things, civil society as the association that today accompanies us and other associations of historical memory need help, they need support and, obviously, it has to be dignified even better, it has to be recognized even better, important rights that were part of the historical memory of the Civil War and Francoism. And finally, we still have as a society a lot to recognize the anti-Franchist fighters who, for example, in the sixties and seventies, began to build the democratic bases of which today, this Parliament and the conjunction of Catalonia's citizenship, in fruition. Therefore, welcome the proposal, we will vote for it; that it is also a touch of attention that memory has not only not ended, but that this initiative serves to make way and to continue claiming many more things that are needed. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.200.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, there is Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.201.0	Thank you very much, President. We want to greet, first of all, the members of the platform who are accompanying us today, and we appreciate their commitment. I would also like to thank Mr Pedret for his proposal and for his willingness, therefore, to clarify our doubts regarding the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, the Civil War was a collective tragedy that left some fleshly wounds to our community life. It was the final, dramatic, terrible, concrete, deadly expression of the struggle between the two Spaniards, who had fought for life or death for hegemony during a century. And when I talk about tragedy I don't want to place myself in the equidistance of responsibilities, no; the Civil War has some responsibility or even an order of responsibility, but it is true that the Civil War was the last expression of a political culture in which the other is seen as an absolute enemy. Because during one centurion the half of Spain, the half of the Spaniards considered that the others, that the other political opponents, that the other half, were deadly enemies, traitors to the country, the motive of all evils. And so he continued to feel during the franchise, where he also imposed a rhetoric and a practice of winners and losers. That's why transition is so important. And someone will say, and I'm sure the MP of the CUP will say: "They'll be back with the myth of the Transition. And do you have anything to hide the Transition? Yeah, you have something mild, like you have all the shared foundations and principles and referents of collective life. But what some call the "mite of the Transition" is a very great truth – a very great truth – and it is a truth that has served as a model for various transitions in the world, and it is the truth that the Spaniards, and the Catalans in the face, decided to replace visceral and cainite hatred for concord; we decided that the other was not the enemy at home, but that it was a compatriot who saw things in a different way; we decided that we would not build our future on the odes of the past, but on the hope of a shared future. And that was a reality. And in Spain, as Alfonso Guerra said at the time, she doesn't even know the mother who gave birth to her. And somehow those words from Azaña to Barcelona of "papa, piety and forgiveness" were realized and realized. A reconciliation, however, that must also be and must be an end to justice and reparation. And a democratic government certainly has a special obligation to stand by and recognize the victims of the Civil War, especially those who were not recognized for the rhetoric and official speech of the dictatorship. But what seems important to me is to work for justice and reparation in the mark of reconciliation. It's the same one Obama asked of Cuba. Or is it that this only serves for a type of rules, when it refers to a dictatorship of Drets? Reparation, reconciliation or justice; it is the same as Obama's request to Cuba. And I ask myself – I ask myself –, indeed, I do it in color, what would be the history, the collective history and our personal history, if in the end we do not look at the past with a little, also, more justice, forgiveness and, finally, oblivion. Nietzsche in his book on history, uses and abuses of history, says that a little oblivion is needed. And so is our personal and collective life, for this look of reconciliation. And that doesn't mean there's no need, I repeat, for justice and reparation. And that is why we are in favour of discussing this proposal. And a lot of steps have been taken, they say... I think some of the Members who preceded me, the Members, have said so. There's been a long time... since the Transition, recognitions, pensions, car restorations. And we can go further. And it's got to go further. And it was the People's Party – the People's Party – that precisely approved the bailout of union and political parties. And today it is proposed that this restitution be also of particular affections, to which, as expressed and as explained by the socialist deputy, the money is required, the fiduciary signs are requisitioned and it is given a waste; a waste that will never be paid. And, therefore, we agree that we study how, when, in what way, this can go back and forth. But I'd like to finish... So, I think it's good news, I think we should celebrate, we're in favour. But I really would want to end up with a certain reflection on the high view, because starting to open the past and the wounds of the past, that many are in living flesh, is a certain Pandora's box. And I don't say so much for where we lay the limits of repair, because, of course, I can say: "So, to me in the Primo de Rivera dictatorship..., I don't know. O: "To me the Carlins wars, my family, therefore, laying there, I don't know what happened to it, and the liberals went there..., or the Carlins went there... And I'm not saying that much, because we're talking about a much tighter period, that there's been a later dictatorship and that, still, somehow, we're repairing; I'm saying that because, sometimes, if we open the doors of the past we can find ourselves surprised. And today, in his parliamentary office, I want to announce a first historiographical, and we have the historian present here. A few days ago I found myself, we were talking, and he said to me, "I just presented a doctoral thesis that somehow is a historical revolution, because I discovered some documents that made eighty years that everyone was looking for and that were not found. And fix your relationship with what I want to discuss, because it's going to be the same but on the other side of the coin. They found themselves in some of the gulfs of an administration, here in Catalonia, six meters of documentation with the inventory of the assets that were in the strong boxes of the banks that were opened by order of the Generality of Catalonia, « seized and requisitioned. And to those people and to those Catalan families it was given a paper, a scrap, and it was said: "I will already pay you. It was the Government of the Generality, allegantly, therefore, needy of war, needy of finance, and perhaps with justice, but in any case it was given a paper and said: "We will already pay you. That paper some of them kept it, and Franco didn't pay them, nor did he pay them, because he said, "Well, this, listen to me, this is what the government of..., the enemy, therefore, is not my responsibility. But, more than the gold that was sent to Russia, so precious goods were seized from the caixas of logging banks through the decrees of August 5, 36, 19 August, 22 August, 30 August, 36, and they were seized gold, silver, joys, money, right? And he gave up a scrap. And what's going on? If we start to open it all up..., and I'm telling them that we are opening this debate, we voted in favour, but I'm just doing a little thinking: they can also..., because what we're voting for today is prescribed; it's also prescribed others. So, they also have the right to ask themselves, that is, to incorporate it into the Law of Historical Memory, because, well, in some cases it was agreed with the Law, but in others it was done, therefore, taking advantage of the Law; some of these moneys then went with a sub-husband from Cartagena to Marseille, and then until Paris, some served bought weapons, others did not know very well where they ended up, etc. Therefore, we are in favour of opening this door, we are debating it. We're happy, we think it's an important day, we think there's a lot of people... as the deputy from Ciutadans said, there's a lot of stories behind here, there's a lot of families, there's hope, there's people who have suffered a lot for the money they took from them. Well, it's about blowing up all the Transitional consensus, because, listen, Obama just asked that you do the same thing to Cuba. Because when the Soviet Union agreed on the withdrawal and reunification in Germany it said: "Very well, but it is not spoken, nor is it disputed, nor does it open itself to the discussion of the points" seized" for the Soviet Union. That is to say, that the Republic of Weimar and then they "sequestered" such..., this we can discuss; now, that the Soviet Union took over the owners and distributed this is not spoken of. And that's what Alemanya signed, and that's not what she's talking about. Transitions, sometimes, require some pacts of these. Therefore, welcome this law, welcome this door, but we remain careful not to blow the bridges of reconciliation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.202.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Mireia Boya, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.203.0	Thank you, President. First of all, salute now platform of affected associations that are here with us. In fact, they are said to be associations of historical memory and affections for confiscation of their currency and of other fiduciary signs deposited by the Franco authorities. These associations have been asked to collect, within a period of time, from the last 77 years of the year in which they have been seized, and to return to them the rights of these goods which will continue to be seized. This year the Government of Spain, the Government of the State, and this year the Government of Spain, the Government of the State, and this year the Government of Spain, the Government of the Republic of Spain, and the Government of the Republic of Spain, and the Government of the Republic of Spain, the Government of the Republic of Spain, the Government of the Republic of Spain, the Government of the Republic of Spain, the Government of the Republic of Spain, the Government of the Republic of Spain, the Government of the Republic of Spain, the Government of the Republic of Spain, the Government of the Republic of Spain, the Government of the Republic of Spain, the Government of the Republic And she was responsible, in all cases almost, on all occasions, the state was madeisha: no. And we're not talking about a cup, we're talking about different ways to restore wealth. Well, he's not the first guy, we're not inventing reindeer. Since the year 77 this has passed many times, and it was in response for so long to the state it was madeisha: we can't give you back. And I don't know if you know it's gentlemen and gentlemen who are the arguments of the Govèrn d'Espagne and the Banc d'Espagne, both in the Epoch of the Popular Party and in the Epoch of the Government of the Socialist Party. The argument that Francoist laws do not prevent was a return. It's Francoist laws that didn't prevent it from being returned? So I, this, and this is a parliamentary group, this is a translation: they're still swallowing, right, they're Franco laws. Because, if not, aurien was decency to return I want you to be military strikers and eth Franco regime illegally confiscate and many years and many people. It is intended that if she were to be considered as an invalid Francoist, as an argument that if she presented herself, as she said, she was responsible for the negative state. In 2005, Mr Pedret asked himself, and he was still in charge of it. And he asked ath Banc d'España in 2009, and was in charge of it: "No, because it is Francoist laws do not contemplate– 2009, not so long ago, we are talking about seven years. Tostemps was madeisha's response. And I'd like to refer to some comments that you have so much eth PSC as Ciuta in other laws presented before you recover, for example, all crazy aquerias that..., well, vosati..., you have reference to unions, right? , between auts. Yes, these laws have been introduced, not all the years have been recovered. And we could give her a long list of examples of associations, unions and families that haven't recovered their property, understand it was difficult to present and reject, it was for those reasons that were theirs, understand it was difficult as losers, maltracted, exiled, deported, to keep fathers who were too Francois to take, cremerate and destroy. Hey eth case, for example, this CNT. From other unions they have recovered them, it was CNT, that it was eth that it was not at present, not recover them. And I'm not getting them back just because I'm here, you evil-doer who was the Franco dictatorship at the time of your union call. Give them one of the examples. There's no autism, is there? ...of other families than fascists, Francois...... who continued to confiscate them directly without the fact that it was a confiscated family that was near that confiscation. And even now, their homes, they're still sound, they haven't brought back French families, and we know many of them, here, in Spain and in all of them are self-governing communities. For all these reasons, we consider that he is proposing an electoral campaign act to him; that he be an electoral campaign act because when they are in government they do not earn rent and when they are now in government they do not stop presenting cases as they are, that madeishi did not accept the petition of their own victims, because they valued her as a franchisee and because she was of historical memory, assuming that she was not complete, and I follow that she did not apply. As a result of the current inaction of the Government of the State, looking back years later, we know that we have not yet tabled a total amendment for respect, and that we have not yet presented a total amendment for respect; for respect to all those who are descendants of the victims who are here and who want to continue fighting to recover everything I want to be freed from the bread. So let's just say that he treats himself to respect for these victims, without futile hopes that this will come to a good end. We'll see what the results are in the month of June, as soon as PP and Ciutadans go, this won't go mad, and we know which ones are motius. And, in the month, and in the other questions: Francoism still hasn't gone from our house, it hasn't gone – it hasn't gone –; we know, don't we? , to scrub a shinau, eth mes eth franchisme doesn't work. It was near the auerem and last week in Tortosa. It has become clear here that I am frank and yet in my arrival Jew. He is ashamed, and he is ashamed, because he is supposed to be a transition, and he is a deputy of his own, and we have assimilated him. We've already ruled him out as a forty-five-metre Francoist monument of nautada presided over by his city in today's country. Shame on him to swallow is unjust laws, but it was symbolism in public space. They are ashamed together, Tath Government of the State, Tath Bank of Spain, Tath Parliament of Tarragona, Tath Government of this Generality and many other institutions that have nothing to do with it. As a guest, Parliament's advocate, dear to us, has lost all legitimacy. You don't consider them legitimate anymore. Eth 3 of March sees a motion to initiate the meeting of Tortosa to withdraw that atrocity which I in my own will arrive without any consultation or delay, and it was the meeting of Tortosa to the host that gave it was won, passing through the next of August Parliament. In the end, it was legitimate for Parliament to be called into question and for the one hundred and thirty-five Members and Members who are voting here to decide that it is frank to use this public space. Enquire where it is allowed that your subdued and poor municipal autonomy goes through the deth Parliament of Catalonia, that I was the principal Cramba to which we decided the causes. How can you allow this and not rent? How do you allow this? By late, eth Tanben Govern lost was legitimized, because he swallows bad autonomy than he swallows Francoism. From the hotel, eth Memoriau Democratic, Mr Romeva, Tanben has lost it, because disquiet gods, these two and milleja this late, or follow, not one day before this consultation, I do not send a statement of position. It was the highest institution of memory of the present country in time at this time, it was not his teaching pocket that you had to inform people of what it meant to be a monument that I had on my arrival. As a guest, Tanben, was a lost citizen participation was legitimized, degraded. It has deteriorated because it has been used politically, there have been no elements of debate that are necessary before people take up an election, a reflection and conscious. By the way, all political parties have lost their legitimacy. And the lost year because there is no campaign then explain now to people what is atrocious. By hiccup, Esquerra, here Madeish, after hiccup, and hiccup many tweets..., but here Madeish votes abstention. By host, eth PSC, what do I vote for this motion, eth maxim responsable deth PSC in Tortosa, take advantage of today's campaign – eh Mr. Roig, eh? –, today's election campaign deth 26 of junh is now in consultation, teaching. I'll, my dear, I'll swallow eth Francoism. In the past, eth PSC in the Parliament of Tarragona voted against financing, co-financing was withdrawn, and seventy two hours later, you don't know where they're running alone, they already hear them – and they do – reinterpret. Jo demiti that paints it pink, magnums. And, as a guest, it is unique that we are not to be ashamed, that we recognize its legitimacy, that it was a good people of this commission to withdraw from the Francoist symbols of Tortosa, that once they have been pedagogy, every day on the market, they have been explaining to all those who are old and old, and they have been my communications, and then I want to explain that I am in my own hands, and I am a fascist disgrace. And now, then, it's over, and I mean, everyone's affected...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.204.0	You've run out of time, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.205.0	Good sórt in Madrid – good sórt in Madrid. We've got to get out of here for a long time, get out of here with strength, even though they say no to you, before we all end up with the fascist appetizer who doesn't walk and who doesn't walk. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.206.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr. David Bonvehí, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.207.0	Counselors, deputies, deputies, good late; a pair of graces to start, in the name of Junts for the Yes. A sincere thanks to Mr. Pedret for presenting this proposal and not just for the fact that he presented it, but for the presentation of the motion and the argumentary who, today, has explained to us, well argued, that we share it. Also, thank him for the effort he must have made to try to change the position of the Socialist Party at the level of the State, therefore, because his position, which until now has been changed, has been changed and, therefore, to try to make sure that with a new majority which is in conformity with the Congress of Deputies this issue was finally resolved. Therefore, a grace also for the sensibility of the proposition; I think it is a simple proposition, it is clear what we want and, therefore, for these motives, a grace. Also a special thanks to the association of the wrongdoers; they have come to see us here in Parliament, and I especially also give thanks to the Maria del Mar López, a friend of mine who has long explained this case to me and who has followed her, and a thanks, therefore, to this association that came from Sant Vicenç de Castellet, to my region, to Bages, as I remember the deputy of Junts per el Si, Adriana Delgado, who is from that municipality. To you, it is necessary to give thanks that at the end of seventy years continue with this fair claim, a claim more than just and a claim, therefore, more than moral. On the web page of the association, I think there are five questions that are being discussed here today, in this proposal; five questions that all Members can ask us, but basically what you are asking on your web page and which you are answering is what, as I say, many Members and Members ask us. The first question you are a fan: what did the Franco government do with the money seized? So, he was used to manage the franchise, to manage and to reverse his interest. What does the Official Butllet of the State of 1938 say about these scraps that you gave them? You yourself are also replying, therefore, that whatever gave the official butllet of that day, that Mr. Pedret has already explained to us. The third question you're a fan is, why haven't you ever collected these scraps? One of the reasons that you say is because you also say that, surely, therefore, a lot of people did not have access to this document and because of the lack of endorsements of three people who belonged to the regime. The fourth question that you are asking – and that we also formulate – is what the current policies say about this injustice? You say to the web page: "Most are in favour of our claim, the last two times that both the Republican Left and Convergence and Union have voted for a proposal not from the law claiming this right. And then they say, "They only voted against the Socialist Party and the People's Party. This from most games, so, this answer I don't know if it's the most adjunct; but in any case, you, on the web page, put it back like this. And the last question you are asking: why was the right not allowed to recover the property to the private and yes, in change, to the political parties and trade unions? And your answer is simply: "The law does not foresee it. So what we're doing today is giving support to this law change because that's what we're predicting in this sense and we want to believe if we're betting, so that's why we're making the last attempt at the Spanish Courts because they truly recognize your right. We also understand that a part of those affected – and this has also reached the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes – have been pulled for the right and no longer believe in political negotiation and have come directly to justice. We can hear it, but in any case, we, like Junts for the Yes, want to make this last intention that, by law, it is recognized. And we also understand that, despite the economic difficulties that any state or difficulty may have, so, because everyone can collect, because a lot of people will not find the documents, but we do have to try to recognize this right for you, and if you can predict for you it would surely be quicker or more likely not to go to a justice that can be extended for years. Four quick reasons why the Group of Joints for the Yes gives support to this claim. For our commitment to historical memory, our country, Catalonia, believes in it. I also believe that there is much more to it than the Spanish State, and we believe everything in Article 54.1 of the Statute of Autonomy, which says that the Generality and other public powers must be old for the knowledge and maintenance of historical memory, and is therefore promoted from here this claim. The second reason is to continue with the political demands that have taken place in the past few years. Just to recall, the department competent in the matter in 2012 has already made a report favorable to move forward in the rescue of those affected by the confiscation. And then I could also detail the very many proposals that have been made in Parliament, in the Spanish Congress, so, basically presented for Republican Left, as I said before, Convergence and Union and also the United Left parliamentary group that many times, therefore, have reiterated. Therefore, from a wide range of Catalan policies, from Catalan MPs, this claim has come to term. Also, when the Law of Historical Memory was made there were various papers also presented for these same groups that I say – both from United Left, Left, Convergence and Union – that they say that in this historical memory there was this precept, which was not accepted. But today I believe that the great happiness that we must all do is that the Socialist Party, therefore, takes this claim and we expect the positive results. For the third reason, which we also support, it is for historical reasons and because the facts are very clear. I think Mr. Pedret explained it. I think there is no doubt, and therefore, before the evidence of what happened historically, documentally, so, we believe that this is a more than just claim. And, then, a fourth reason – I said so too – for our compromise with the association of the wrongdoers. I think they've made a great effort to try to get everyone to have all the documents they can believe in in their power. I think that they have, at last, moved a lot, going on television programs, publications on the subject, extended it to a lot of areas, and, therefore, only for this compromise would it be worth supporting this proposal. To end and conclude, as you see, despite the various actions we have taken, both political parties and the same association, we have not yet come out. No, the people affected have not yet been rescued, but we are still trying to claim a compensatory measure equivalent to the one we have received from the unions and political parties. The claim of those affected by the confiscations are well documented, they have been more than claimed and, therefore, today we are content with Juntes for the Yes that this proposal to Parliament is approved. The Parliament, which is the institution representing the people of Catalonia, can help to repair an injustice that affects thousands of Catalan citizens, and also the conjunction of the Spanish State, which illegally lost some of the students who were often the fruit of years of personal and family effort and who have never recovered. And, like someone else said, we're all in luck. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.208.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Pause.]] The debate is over and since there is no... Mr. Pedret, why is he asking me for the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.209.0	I'm asking you for allusions, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.210.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.211.0	Thank you, President. I, Mrs Boya, could accuse you of electoralism for the intervention you have made from the Faristol, but no, it must be that the UPC is the only political formation in the universal history that is not concerned with making electoral proposals, obtaining electoral support, that never does electoralism, that never practices maximalism, etc. I'll tell you something so alone, look at the initiative log date, because at that time – except that you think I have the ability to see the future – there were no elections in sight, huh? What was there was a willingness to make, yes, a historical mistake. But I'll tell him what the Socialist League sang more than a hundred years ago, "Remove your pride, because sometimes you don't need a centuries-old tradition or have access to the government to correct historical errors. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.212.0	The debate is over, and since there are no totalities, this initiative can continue its processing. [[Question to the Government on the working conditions of teachers]] [[300-00061/11]] Let's get to the next point of the order of the day. The next item is the question to the Government on the working conditions of teachers presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word María José García Cuevas. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Wait a few seconds. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.213.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, for us the objective of the education system is to provide students with the necessary preparation for their adult life, so that they can be autonomous, critical and able to integrate themselves and to develop their talents and abilities for the benefit of society and also for their own individual freedom. And for this we need an appropriate model, but above all we need competent professionals to lead and apply this model; professionals on whom the educational reality of the system rests. And these professionals are our teachers. They are the pillar of the education system, they are the ultimate and definitive responsible for identifying and enhancing the talents of each student, creating the right and motivating environment for learning, transmitting knowledge and strategies that develop skills to the students. And that's why we need excellent teachers, who aren't just prepared people, they're also people who are motivated and recognized for their work. And this is the area, Counsellor, that we want to cover today. Because it is very difficult to feel motivated and recognized in your work if you have to face more work with less means, with less pay, with worse conditions. Teachers have endured and survived throughout Spain, but especially in Catalonia, for responsibility and professionalism, the effects and tension of the economic crisis. The Generalitat has applied cuts to them and worsened their working conditions more than any other public worker. And also the social tension and economic efforts of families, undoubtedly, have complicated their work with the students. Catalan teachers have endured more cuts than any other official and more cuts than any other partner throughout Spain. And their attitude has depended on the system being maintained normally these years. But the time has come, we believe, to reverse this situation. The necessary adjustments due to the economic situation are no longer justified. If in all Spain, from the central government and from all the autonomous communities, even those with complaints about financing, and with fiscal balances, if we want to see this, negative, we start to reverse the cuts, it is not understood that in Catalonia it is an exception. And we will focus our demands on these fifteen_minutes on four points that we believe summarise the grievances that our teachers suffer and that we want to urge the Generalitat to correct. In the first place, interinity in the body. A basic premise for being able to exercise in life any task with excellence is independence; independence that the public administration is guaranteed through bodies of officials, who can perform the public service that they provide impartially and under exclusively professional criteria, thinking only of the general interest of their work. And it is true that temporarily there are places that can be filled with interims, but they must not go beyond a small percentage, and not because the interims cannot do their job well, it is that they have not passed the process of general selection on the basis of merits, capacity and publicity that guarantees us equality of opportunity and transparency, and also because never a professional who depends on an administrative decision to maintain his job will be able to act with as much independence as another who has the place in ownership. Well, well, the percentage of interns in Catalonia is excessive, there are no official figures, but we know it's around 20_per_cent, the fifth part of the staff. And you will tell me that it is Montoro's fault, but for a couple of years now the replacement rate has been opened, first to 50_per_cent, now to 100_per_cent for essential services such as education, and it has been a free and unilateral decision of the Government of the Generalitat to use these places in other services such as Mossos or Bomberos, failing, in passing, the state regulations, which comes very well, but, of course, to cut. Catalonia is at the head of Spain in the interim and precarious working conditions of its teachers, at least in everything that depends on its department, because effectively they also depend on the retirement or transfer breaks of each community, but, of course, in what it is to call oppositions to fill vacancies we are at the tail of Spain and a long distance away. Catalonia called for opposition for the last time in 2010. The call of 1,245 teachers in 2011 was challenged by the Spanish government, then socialist, and did not take place. Curious that in the same year Andalusia summoned 3,796 places that were not contested by this socialist government. Therefore, we have not called for opposition for five years. Exceptional situation in Spain. In the last two years Andalusia has convened almost 3,000 places, Aragon 700, Asturias 600, Canary Islands more than 800, Cantabria 200, Castilla - La Mancha 1,150, Castilla and León more than 1,100, Extremadura 500, Galicia more than 1,400, Madrid almost 2,200, Murcia 650, Navarre more than 300, Basque Country 850, Valencia almost 1,650, Ceuta and Melilla 60, and Baleares, which has not yet convened, has announced between 400 and 800 places from next year. And you will tell me that there are 300 places promised, but no date and no deadlines. You can now concretely in your turn or we will think that it has been a beacon and will also clarify what happens to FP. Her responsibility, she advises, is to convene oppositions already, that bring to our teachers the tranquility and stability that they need to feel motivated and recognized, so that they can work peacefully in dignified conditions, without being pending the scholarship, the renewal, or to fall or not in grace to the director of the center. We need a shock plan to equip our educational service with sufficient personnel through the necessary transfer competitions and opposition calls. We defend the professionalism of our officials, we defend their right to work under appropriate and legal conditions, regardless of political power, we defend their freedom to carry out their work without depending on decisions or political circumstances. And this freedom is guaranteed by law to these professionals. And, look, no politician is anyone to limit the, and it is that, if it were not necessary for the independence of officials from political power, the oppositions would not have been invented as an equal, free and meritocratic method of accessing and exercising public service impartially and outside the political control of the Government. And we relate this fact, counsel, to the second point of our inquiry: the decree of templates. Just over two years ago, on 25 March 2014, the Government of the Generalitat approved the decree on staffing and provision of teaching places. All trade unions opposed the decree. And nearly ten thousand teachers' signatures were collected to prevent their approval, but the government continued without accepting any union proposals. Also from the People's Party we opened the parliamentary debate; we put to the Government alternatives, based on teachers' claims to improve the drafting, guaranteeing their rights and at the same time the autonomy of the centre; we put forward a motion, but the Government did not respond to any proposal and approved the decree unilaterally and even before the motion came to vote. The opposition to the decree was based on the doubts that it offered to guarantee the criteria of objectivity, merit and capacity in the selection and establishment of teaching places. It's been two years and we're still getting complaints. The practical implementation of the decree is not being as careful and transparent as we were promised. Look, there are cases of arbitrariness in the definition and allocation of places. Teachers feel their freedom to do their work restricted, they feel pressured by files that open and resolve the center's management, they denounce cases of friendship, profiles defined to incorporate specific people into the staff, also to expel teachers who disagree from the center. We are denounced for arbitrary dismissals and appointments for internal positions outside the preparation and capacity of people. Candidates are rejected in the process of personal interview, before looking at merits, for questions outside teaching work and without taking into account their merits. In short, there are many and varied complaints that we receive in the implementation of the decree, and also coincide with the risks that we detect and that we intend to help correct before its adoption. This situation is also causing deep discouragement and disillusionment in the most trained teachers. There is a feeling of defencelessness and, ultimately, look, counsel, the implementation of the decree is at all ensuring that our students have the best teachers, nor that the most suitable and most motivated teachers occupy the places that correspond to them by merit and capacity. On the other hand, it does not seem that the educational community has received the decree enthusiastically either. The PDI pilot plan, applied in the territorial services Maresme - Vallès Oriental, has been used exclusively in 40_per_cent of the schools and 31_per_cent of the institutes of the area, and only 19_per_cent of the substitutions in these centers were covered using this application, compared to 81_per_cent of the substitutions that were covered by the traditional procedure, and these are data from the council itself. These results, look, counselor, we believe that they at all endorse the success of this test. And yet it seems that now you want to extend it to other territorial services. We hope, Commissioner, that you will have your point of view on these two issues that we have raised with you, oppositions and staffing decrees, and we will address the other two remaining issues in our second round of intervention. Thank you very much, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.214.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the teaching counselor, Mrs. Meritxell Ruiz, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.215.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, members of the educational community, members of the MUCE, who are also present with us today, in fact, if in one thing we do agree, and who so identify the different international studies, it is in the importance of our teachers as this element that you said of quality. And, in fact, it's interesting to have debates like this too to place focus on important issues that respect this better education system. But let me, yes, point out, because sometimes we don't do it, that our education system, to which many times you refer as a system of failures, at least I have heard it in other questions, we have to say that it is not, that in the last few years the Catalan education system has improved and improved a lot, and especially in the last few years, and that I have repeated it several times: while economic and social inequalities, unfortunately, in this country have grown much, they have not done so as educational inequalities, but the educational centres have done more than ever, they have completed their social function more than ever to guarantee equal opportunities and a future worthy of our children and young people. And if that's the case, then we have to recognize that it's partly important for the great task that our teachers do in Catalonia, and also because we have a good education system in Catalonia and an important political consensus on the structural issues of this country. Among other things, because when we say that the results of our students improve and improve over time, we also do so as a recognition to the professionals of our education system, which allow, with their pocket, to guarantee this equal opportunity. But we also have to recognize, and you said, that this involvement in the better part of the system our teachers..., they have done, it is true, in these years with a decrease of self and a return to the lectural schedule of 2006, also so that they can increase the school places and the educational offer. This government does bet firmly for the better of the system, and also for the better of our teachers, and it did so with a great deal of agreement through the Law of Education of Catalonia. You, when you were talking about tranquillity..., I think that little tranquillity is what gives our centers exactly one law as the LOMCE has been, that the one that has carried is very unstable, among other things because there was no political consensus, as it has seen in its unfolding, in which many of the things that are expected to be done have been postponed so as to seek this possible consensus. To our Law of Education, which is approved here, what is important is the educational project of each centre, which collects in our educational system a special relevancy and protagonistism because what it does is to match the needs of each educational centre, and to situate the educational needs of the educational centres. Centres are a dynamic organization that manages knowledge, experience and knowledge of the different teachers of a centre. The proper functioning of the school, in this system, therefore, requires a good project of center and also a good professional team, and a cohesive teaching team. And what I don't like to hear you say here is... that there's this shadow of doubt about all the direct teams in our country saying they sort out, saying they don't take into account the needs of the student and saying that the only one they do, instead of looking at a list, is look at the list of friends and select the best. In Catalonia we have great direct teams, in Catalonia we have great teaching teams that make a great pocket and that guarantee this quality of our system. You have referred to three or four elements that we would like to answer in this first part of the intervention. It is true that we start from two very different models, I insist, when you, the PP, have proposed a law, a law that has placed its focus on the external evaluation of the system to make feedbacks; in the evaluation of the system for drawing students from the system, offering them an alternative from the fourteen years and drawing 'ls from compulsory secondary education from the basic FP, and to re-deprecating the FP. While you plant this, our law is quite different. What's he up to? The centre education project, which must be agreed with the entire educational community, is the one that must govern what is done in that education centre. And from here, all the organization has to turn around this object, the center's educational project. To do this we need autonomy; to do this we need direct teams with pedagogical leadership; to do this, too, we need an evaluation to ensure that the project is relaxed and that the social function of the school is also offered. In order to ensure the adequacy of this educational project, different decisions have been made: that of autonomy, the profiling of places or the provision of teaching places, among others. You've made a first point of the plant decree. I see that this coincides with other positions of this Parliament which are quite different, in principle, from theirs. We must bear in mind that this is a decree providing places for vacancies, and that it has followed the reference of leading European educational models. When you talk about leading-edge educational models, and we think about Finland, you also think about how they select, what is the role of the management teams and where is the selection of the faculty in countries like these, which is different from ours, but still more different than what they propose from state laws. A center education project requires a pedagogical leadership and requires that that organization, which is the center, can give response to the needs that that educational community has marked itself. We have easy examples: if an educational project marks that the English has to be enhanced because we need to improve the English language and, therefore, that we need to make a part of a non-linguistic matter in English, which must be obvious – and I suppose that in this you have to agree – it is that the person who can occupy that place has enough English knowledge because that is possible. That's the profile of places. The process ensures that the square fits into that center education project. The provision of the provision decree is to ensure that the centres have doctrinal teams committed to this centre education project. And this also co-ordinates a team – this also co-ordinates a team. The process guarantees and will guarantee transparency, equality and opportunity. I don't agree with you: we don't have great names of incidents, in fact – as I was talking to the Director General – we don't have incidents, because this system also guarantees that there isn't a bust. There are mechanisms, if there are abuses: there are mechanisms of supervision, control and complaint. And I have to tell him that, in this sense, there are also lovers; we do not pretend that our direct teams do what they do is to select the people they like to be at their side, among other things, let's just say it, because that would not guarantee either a good project of direction or a good project of center. What we want is that, as much as possible, the centers have teams that can identify and be compromised with this center education project. I see that we do not agree on this, but this is the bet that this Parliament has made, and this is the bet that ensures that the educational projects that our educational communities have given also have a reflection on the teaching teams. He was also talking about the substitution decree. It is true, we will expand it, we have already expanded it in May to three different territories: in the West Valley, in Barcelona and in Girona, and the proper course we want to open it to the whole territory. And we don't agree that they haven't used it a lot, it's that this..., our purpose was not that all the centers substitute through this method, but that they have the two methods, the telematic substitution and the substitution for this method that we call PDI. It will not be so, nor will it ever be so, because it is obvious that this replacement mechanism is only to be used in those strategic elements of the center, in a long replacement, for example, as I said, as far as English is concerned. If we have an educational center that is working with different methodologies and has a low to cover during a course, the obvious thing is that you use this procedure because the person who can replace this low-school teacher knows that methodology, for example, of project work. Or if we are in a center with great difficulty of attention to diversity it is logical that the center's management team will ask that the person who covers that teacher has a contrasted experience in attention to diversity. This, therefore, I am getting back to, the goal is not that all educational centers take over the substitution for this method, but that this is one more method. Obviously, when the direction so convinces or when the bass is low they won't use all this procedure, between other things because it's very long and the most likely is that the replacement has already ended before the steering team has done all this procedure. Therefore, I insist, this is a methodology, a system that we have put at the forefront of educational centres in order to respond to the needs of their centres. When this replacement element is basic or structural it can..., the steering team can have the option to do it; if it's not so, it doesn't. And what shows, as you say, is that the centers use this... – we have to say that they have only done so, at the moment, in these territorial services –, of this methodology, when they find that this place is a strategic place either for the duration or for the attention they give to our students. In any case, on the second part of the question, I will explain to you who are the measures that we have put in place, that we have brought to the union table and that we have been, these past few weeks, negotiating with the unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.216.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Next, the Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.217.0	Thank you, President. Well, honourable counselor, objections, does not answer, and staff decree, look, it's not against directors, but against arbitrariness, our opposition. According to you, two things: first, everything is perfect, that is why the unions and the centers are so happy; and second, the success of a test is that it is not used? Good. Let's see if we have any luck now. The third question we want to raise is the return of the retained salaries to the teachers attached to the Generalitat. These officials, as a state body, would not have lost two of the three salaries that you have cut if you had continued to depend on the General Administration of the State, such as the tax inspectors or the labour inspectors, but after being transferred to the Generalitat you have suffered more severe cuts than any other compañero of any other autonomy. And don't ask us again the excuse of poor payer of the financing model, that they don't have money; first, because you have voluntarily renounced the 160_millions of the European Social Fund and the ministry for the FP, and second, because other communities, so much or more supportive than Catalonia, only cut an extra pay, that of 2012, and have already returned it or it is agreed to return it. The new budgets do not even provide for the return of the part of 12, of the pay of 12. You'll be satisfied. Although quiet – calm – teachers, because Pere Aragonés has announced that there are 42_million contingency funds, although I don't know if these contingency funds are going to arrive for all the contingencys that have gone unbudgeted. And yet, 34_million are budgeted for external action for which there is no competence; this is the logic of this government's priorities. And finally, counselor, the fourth theme: ratios and teaching hours. The central government has already reversed this cut in rights that led to the increase in ratios; you have no excuse for not returning to more reasonable ratios and schedules. More in view of the fact that Spanish teachers on average exceed the average of OECD and European countries in teaching hours per year, both in primary and secondary schools. In addition, our teachers dedicate themselves to giving many hours of class in comparative terms, devoting less of their working hours to other activities that also have a bearing on educational quality, such as preparing classes, training, meetings, corrections, coordination. We ask you, Counselor, that high school teachers return to eighteen hours and twenty-four permanence, and that primary teachers return to twenty-three hours and thirty hours of permanence, as we are asking all groups from the opposition, through proposals that the UPC is boycotting us permanently, supporting the Government in its refusal to return teachers to pre-crisis working conditions; let us hope that with the subsequent motion the same will not happen. Because the cuts, counsel, would be necessary because of the bankruptcy situation of the Generalitat, we do not say no, but they never posed as indefinite and irreversible. In addition, we have explained this many times; there is no justification in Catalonia in the field of education, when we are maintaining three hundred public bodies, twice as much, for example, as the Community of Madrid, which costs us 6,000 million euros a year. Set whether you can cut here before suffocating teachers or closing lines. We ask you, Counselor, for a radical change of mind towards teachers; it cannot be – it cannot be – that you are setting up a Catalan tax agency, which we do not need, at the expense of teachers over fifty years old to whom you, in 2012, have taken away the right to devote two hours of teaching to other tasks, in 2015 you have returned it and, now, you have cut it again without notice. And it cannot be, counsel, that the substitutes will not charge for the month of July; but, yes, to open delegations and to travel, for that there is no misery. You are putting too much strain on education; you are putting too much pressure on our teachers and our teachers, a collective that has endured with stoicity and integrity wage cuts, loss of labour rights and increased workload, but a fundamental collective for something that we do care about, which is the quality of public education offered to so many students. Precisely for these students and families, these families who take their children to a school or public institute because they prefer it or because they have no other choice, but so that they can be sure that this decision will help their children to have more opportunities in life, so that they can be sure that their children will be in the hands of educational professionals well prepared for their task, specialists focused on developing their role with excellence, motivated, because they feel independent and recognized. And for all this, she advises, we need her help; of her help and of her commitment to adapt staffing and working conditions, at least, to pre-crisis levels. We ask you, counselor, to engage with our teachers in their independence, in their tranquillity and in their excellence, because the task we entrust to these professionals, to our teachers, depends on the future of our children. And with them, counselor, depends the future of our society. Thank you very much, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.218.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Ms. Meritxell Ruiz's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.219.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mrs Cuevas, what I would like to thank you for all this strength with which you have now defended certain aspects, is that I am directly translating (the speaker laughs) into the educational sphere. Because who forced the autonomous communities to increase the ration by 20 per cent, who forced to limit the repositioning rate, who forced to replace from the wish and who forced not to create places for opposition, it was not this Government of the Government of Catalonia, but it was the Government of the PP, more than anything else, and said words like: "This is not the educational reform of the Government, this is done to ensure that the autonomy meets the deficit. Therefore, there was no interest in the better quality of education, but the only interest there was to "press, to glue even more the autonomous communities to complete with a deficit – certainly, a deficit that the State imposed on autonomy and that is unable to impose itself. So, I'd appreciate it if this great defense could be done by you, too. But point 2, Catalonia did not apply these forecasts of the royal decree – and you know it. When the Valencian Community, with whom we have, certainly, now, a good relationship, tells us that it has lowered the rate of the groups; clearly it has lowered the rate, because its PP government, to the Valencian Community, applied the rate automatically to all groups and opened all the P3 rates to thirty. And now, the Government of the Valencian Generalitat does what the Government of the Catalonian Generalitat has done five years ago, which is to keep P3's ratios to twenty-five students per classroom. But not only that, the Government of the Generality, moreover, for this course, has decided that in the centres of maximum complexity, which are those centers that need our support most, the rate is not twenty-five, but the rate will be twenty-two. And not only that, but then again, when the whole process of enrollment of students at the centres is over, they see the average rates in Catalonia and see that they don't have any kind of credibility when they say that we're over for a while, because Catalonia never increased the rates over the wind, and because Catalonia has made an effort to bring them down in all these places of greatest complexity. Substitutions, they didn't either. It is clear that there are other communities that pull back – pull back – all that they did at the time. Catalonia never applied the royal decree of substitutions as it came out of the ministry. Not only that, but we have already announced it, and so you have been able to see it reflected in the assumptions of the Generality, which we have announced that for the next course we want to move forward in the best of these substitutions, for example, by moving forward before the course beginning. But let's mix up which are our proposals and which is the responsibility of this government before the situation. Look, you say that we always spend a lot on those who don't have any sense, but it's that you can put me in the same bag of travel that we do to promote our trade to agencies as important as the quality agency of the health care system or the evaluation agency of the education system. So, when you talk about the public wanting to put here everything that doesn't touch, you also know that here there are very important ones like those that guarantee the quality of the education service or the quality of the healthcare service in Catalonia. Who are the proposals that we have made and that you will be able to see reflected in our assumption that we have put forward? First of all, we have taken into account three criteria: prioritizing resources – because, as you know, resources are scarce and are what they are –, prioritizing them in centres of maximum complexity in support of inclusive school and improving attendance at our students. And what did he move into? In the better allocation of teaching resources in centres of maximum complexity, to increase the attendance, the staff, in students with educational needs in the framework of the inclusive system, to modify the forecast of the reduction of the two teaching hours to the majors of fifty years. We maintain the reduction, but this reduction, precisely because it does not have an effect on the direct attention to the students, will not be of the teaching hours, but will be of the hours of stay in the center, the better of the coverage of the substitutions, the recognition of the fourth and the fifth stages, the recovery of resources destined for the permanent formation of the teacher and, among others, one of the themes that you also posed on the table, which was the subject of opposition. As you know, we have announced..., today there has been a meeting with the unions where these oppositions have been announced and, therefore, now that we have already done so, what we also ask is that we also intend to convince the system, the basic regulations, the Spanish government that, like what we want is the highest educational quality, we also have to take into account that access requirements have to take into account these criteria of better quality. From Catalonia we want to advance in the best of the teaching quality and many times we find ourselves with a basic regulation that limits us very much the ability to sort the best people not only to access the magisterium, but also to access in opposition to the teaching bodies. So let's ask that, now that we've already announced that we're opposing, we also take all these things into account. And the last issue, too, that we have announced is that in order to be able to do all this in the long run, to provide more than two dozen centres of maximum complexity, to be able to have more centres in attendance at the inclusive school, to be able to do all these measures that we will continue to do is not to contract the substitutes in July, because we understand that the substitutes hold the contract until June, July is a non-ready period, and therefore the September month will be back to be part of the whole bag in order to be able to give coverage...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.220.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.221.0	...substitutions. That's right, we've also announced that we'll replace 20 days before the school year, and that's all the measures we've put in these assumptions. Thank you, President, for the pardons I have extended.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-01-1701.222.0	Thank you; many thanks, deputies and deputies. They suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock.
