ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.1.0	It's the reboot of the session, very good morning. [[Question to the Government on democracy and popular legislative initiatives]] [[300-00057/11]] The eighth item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on democracy and popular legislative initiatives, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - the Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Anna Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.2.0	Very good morning to everyone or, in any case, to the few we are. Last week, as you will remember... – last week, not at the plenary session – as you will remember, we attended the debate on the proposed law of Catalonia's education system. It was a debate that came to us from the hand of the commission that promoted the popular legislative initiative and, therefore, was the voice of Rosa Cañadell, who represented the 63 people of the commission that promoted, the 170 organizations that supported the initiative and the 95,000 people that signed this ILP. Beyond the figures, we understand that what entered the Parliament's debate was a legislative initiative that was worked out, turned, supported, defended, harvested by many peers, seas, teachers, teachers, citizens and citizens of this country. All of them, all of them, worried about education. In short, an exercise of militancy, I don't know if it sounds to some what militancy is. In the past Ple, there was also one thing that happened, and it is that a thought to the totality of return prevented it from arising on this law and that, therefore, we lost, in our opinion, the opportunity to debate on a new law of education – good morning, Madam Counselor. We could resume our complaint about what was supposed to be the approval of this return from the hand of Junts for the Yes and the People's Party; we said that at the time. The law of education in force at this time in Catalonia, in its moment, came under the opposition of more than 90 per cent of the faculty. There is a widespread opposition to LOMCE, and from here on, a recognition of the organized expression that supposes the unsubmissive families. We find it unacceptable to block groups to public schools and they do not convince us with their arguments about democratic changes. It's made it difficult to get into the children's home, it's getting out of college, and we know what we're working on. Decree of plants, detailed labour rights of masters and teachers, educational centres each time less democratic and less participatory and a very well-known double network of private and concerted centres, which we know more than you try to sell the virtues of this double network, we know that it involves segregation on the basis of the social class. The list is long and when the list is long in terms of education, it means that the suspension is alarming, that the situation is very poor, despite the fact that you were still sending us back to know what kind of international reports we have in no way. We insisted, we closed a debate, a debate that was absolutely opportune to open, you tried to say that the Junts pour el Si program planned to maintain the LEC and the one the People's Party argued with regard to the freedom of families to choose centers..., we already know that you always possess freedom to serve the most powerful. You gave to close the debate; perfect. So close is the debate that until this week you have given us a new measure of detail to the masters of this country. Now it can be said that the government has no reason to be questioned about a decision that Parliament has taken, and you can still be tempted to talk about the separation of powers and that we do not have to come to question a parliamentary decision, because you are the government. We understand that we do, that we must ask the government, because the government has lost the opportunity to open a serious debate about the emergencies in the education camp. And we also have to ask the government for another reason: because we believe that with what went on in the past plenary we have deepened in the drawing, we have made the distance between the street and the institution much greater, we have had a mobilization that exists in the street, a mobilization that is certainly always insufficient, but we have set a distance, I don't know if it is insurmountable, between the street and the institutional policy. We will not find anything if we speak briefly of what is the political disaffection that is summed up exactly in this: in the distance between the street and those who claim to be political representatives. A recent report by the Bofill Foundation – which I understand cannot be accused of radical mass – exposed the different elements that make up, explain and sustain this political disaffection that we also live in our country. He alleged that the citizenry has a great deal of information about political issues and that this information is often referred to electoral incompliments or cases of corruption. He also reported that each time the people have more expectations, higher expectations about what the public administration, the institutions have to do. It also calls for the reduction of government leeway in a society every time more globalised and where national or autonomous governments have very little leeway. It also appeals to the fact that there is a crisis of social capital, which means, therefore, that trust, reciprocity or cooperation between the street and the institutions is more and more weak. And also the call, the report, to the increase of individualism and social liabilities. And if anything was not the ILP that was presented in the past Ple was neither individualism nor social passivity; it was precisely a people's exercise that was organized to bring forth a debate in Parliament. And we locked the door to this organized expression. The report of the Bofill Foundation concluded: "The disaffection that exists in our country, in the land of politics, is difficult and it is appropriate to take measures aimed at combating it. The distancing of the people from politics is a fact that is observed, above all, says the report, "in growing discontent respect of the political class, political leaders and parties, as well as in the low levels of participation and in the increase of the blank vote in certainly electoral matters. All the papers point to the need to fully incorporate the disaffection into the Catalan political agenda and to put into practice measures aimed at combating it, – I literally read what you say. He goes on to say: "Shut up measures aimed at democratising democracy. Therefore, the inquiry was directed to the government in the matter of the two battles that the country suffered in the past plenary: how does the government react before the emergence that we have in the matter of education? How does the government react before democracy suffered in the past plenary?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.3.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, will respond.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.4.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, Madam President, thank you, honourable Member. From the outset, a previa, of course, and indeed is a preca; that is, at the time of questioning the government would help a lot to have a little more concrete on the demand that it is, because the inquiry, as it is recorded, speaks of democracy and popular legislative initiatives, that this is the title that we have registered, and, therefore, at the time of distributing the inquiries in the framework of the government, we are based on what we have, that is the title. From this point of view, the answer we can give as the government is very limited. As the government, I repeat, or continue, as the government, popular legislative initiatives are an instrument of Parliament, the way it is regulated by Parliament, and the evolution, isn't it? , tabled by Parliament. Therefore, we can make a parliamentary debate – which has already been done in a concrete case at the last session, with the known results – and we can talk, in the end, in each case what it touches. As the government has this power, which is to think about many things, but about the system as the Parliament organizes its entries or has not submitted certain proposals, it is very difficult that we can do so, beyond an opinion, let's say, generic. Therefore, what I will do will be to focus on the overall reflection that the Member has made and that she basically sees on a line that I have to say that I share, not only as a citizen, but also as a Government, that you have to see with this global reflection that we have to do about the role of citizenship, participation, democracy and disaffection. Because, in short, it all forms part of the same question and, if I may say so, of the same problem, because effectively, it is a problem, and denying it would be absolutely wrong. That the debate is necessary and relevant and always insufficient is a fact, we agree. Whether the ILP or the ILP or popular legislative initiatives are an instrument, one, among many others, that must allow this debate, I think we can agree; we can also agree, I think, that this is not the only instrument, and neither is it an out-of-date instrument. Therefore, for me, in any case, as a government – as a government – the one that we pose to us in a very serious way is that any instrument, whatever it allows to deepen in the debates, to deal with those questions that concern so many people, to channel these concerns for the democratic lives that we have at these times at our disposal as a government..., all these are necessary and are, to the extent possible, better. And in any case, they're, at least, some of them, I'd say they're essential. For what it specifically does to the question of popular legislative initiatives, this is a debate that goes from the far, that is always so close to a thousand shades, that always, depending on the subject, one can understand that it is a more useful or less useful tool, that is more or less manipulated, and interpretations about the democratic concept of certain questions will always be at debate, always. In the end, depending on the topic, depending on the options, depending on the perspectives that each listens to. But there is one thing that seems to me to be indisputable: that they allow, on the margin of voting – that is to say, on the margin of electoral participation in some elections – citizenship as such can participate in debates, beyond the debate that we can hold in the marc, let us say, of a limited space, in the end, physically, as is that of Parliament. So it's about breaking this dynamic and the ILPs allow this. And they allow it in many areas, I repeat, some will consider the subject more or less relevant, others will consider it insufficient, others will consider it, in short, to be..., even some will think it is a waste of time. There is everything, however, from the point of view of the Government, I think we have to value very positively, I repeat, this tool. History shows us that we've been getting better in the last few years. Since the year 95, when the first ILP law was created, some changes have been made, the most significant at the time was that of 2006; but, above all, from the debate that was produced in 2010, we will find ourselves in 2013, with the latest change, which is concrete in the current law, Law 7/2014 and which allows, among other things, to resolve some questions that were not resolved at the time, such as, for example, the possibility that the issues do not stand in the way of parliamentary structure. But, I repeat, this is a parliamentary debate, this is a debate that we can do as parliamentary groups and, from this point of view, there are many nuances, that all of them are relevant. But what is obvious is that if what it is about is the fact that the ILPs serve to provoke debate, the ILP must be seen, used; it must, at all events, be empowered, as an instrument of mobilization and as an instrument of reflection. Beyond that, I repeat, on the formal or final part of..., that this tool serves to initiate a legislative process. This is, to put it this way, a generic reflection. For what it does on the formal side, here I do have to say to you with all frankness, and also, in short, without any, let us say, to escape from any responsibility, that the ultimate responsibility to determine how these questions are made in Parliament and it is the parliamentary groups that have to decide how it is done, and that it is the parliamentary groups that, depending on the majority and the debate that they may have between them, have to determine. As a government – I understand that you asked the government, and I am here to address you as a member of the government – we do not have a position on this issue, because it is a question that does not approach us. You have already pointed this out in your intervention and I can only say to you that, indeed, here is a matter of separate responsibilities between the two organs, which seems to me to be legitimate, so that, from this perspective, we cannot add anything else to it. Another thing is that, effectively, I repeat, essence, philosophy, the approach that is behind this instrument, as a government, the very positive value, because it is a more important tool, it is a necessary tool, it is a useful tool that must enable us to promote debate, the debates, in society as a whole, with two instruments that seem to me to be of fundamental importance: one, transparency, that is to say, allows all the actors involved to have their opinion; two, with guarantees, also, in short, that the mechanism can have a channelization; a parliamentary channelization that, at the end of the day, will determine, I repeat, the Parliament, but that this channelization must be ensured. For the rest, the debates, to put it this way, thematically, were produced in its moment and we will continue to have them. As you know, this is a government that is committed to a very concrete objective, that it is a government of transition, that it is a government that has a very specific mission and a very clear task, and that is what, in some way, makes people have very different visions of how we build society we agree with an element, that we want to have a society to be able to build from the point of view of the structures of the state, that we do not have today. This is the mandate that we have, this is the objective that we have as a government, and this is the responsibility that, from the point of view of this member of the government in concrete terms, he is absolutely convinced and willing to take on until the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.5.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Next, the Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.6.0	I already said to the principle: we were aware that this inquiry had caused some concern to the Government. But do you want to talk about the education ILP? Don't you have to answer the counselor? Does he go from ILP or democracy and have to talk to Romeva about it? So it turns out that we want to talk about everything, and it turns out that you could also think of a collegiate intervention, and if we want to talk about education and we want to talk about instruments to improve, and that democracy is at least democracy, you could break the intervention and answer everything; but no, we have this boxed function, we register a question, we can only answer a counselor, and this is also the democracy that we have. We don't want to stop talking about everything. Yes, and we want to talk about education, because it's still more urgent than ever and we want to talk about democracy. Let's hope this government isn't... either this legislature, or this mandate, isn't the transition to the final death sentence of the public school. Let's hope it doesn't work out for this, this legislature. For now, you're working hard. He said that he shared that it must be deepened, that the instruments of democracy of which we possess must be improved; he was concerned, too – and I am not convinced – about political disaffection; but you also said that the ultimate responsibility for this lies with Parliament and therefore does not approach the Government – calling on Montesquieu and the separation of powers, right? – stay in what Parliament does. Home, you don't stop presenting legislative initiatives when you think it's important. That is why the Government is able to set up new initiatives in this Parliament in the area of deepening democracy. If you don't, we can do it, obviously, but we can clearly ask the government about it. We understand that the debates on the street must be closely respected and that with this we mean that there is no reason for a people to be organized, mobilized, that we give them a drink to the screen and say to them: "Very well, you have done very well, but now, this, we do not want to debate it. So, we understand that what should be done is to open the question; that to open the question does not mean that parliamentary groups are obliged to vote in favour of the text that enters the sponsor committee at the time, no; it is possible to turn this text at all. What's going on is that, like at least, it allows there to be a certain narrow participation in the pose, too, huh? , from representatives of the promoter commission, allows them to propose peers, allows them to be listened to and, therefore, allows to open a little more – open a little more – the doors of this institution. Therefore, we do not agree to recognize the role that the ILPs have at this time as they are regulated, but we understand that we should take a step further. It is true that if you try to do a comparative right exercise and look, therefore, as these types of legislative initiatives are regulated in our immediate environment, in other autonomous communities of the Spanish State or the same European Commission, which I imagine you know well, we would have no more hopeful examples, huh? It's just a little bit of the same thing going on all the time. In fact, what happens to the European Union is absolutely alarming. The number of initiatives that do not succeed, those that are directly rejected or those that, even if they are admitted to a trial, are answered from the committee's point of view: "We do not intend to regulate this, "this debate is not relevant now or "this is not the competence of the European Union, always playing with competitive debates, which are, as you know, very enriching in themselves. But the fact that we don't have examples of bold regulations in participatory democracy doesn't mean that we can't start on this path. In fact, if this legislature is to be transitioned to something, so good that it was transitioned to radicalisation of democracy. Therefore, we will continue to urge this Parliament – yes, this Parliament too –, but also the Government to present us with measures to deepen our representative democracy, to recognise that citizenship has very little capacity for influence, that our response cannot be voted on every four years, that after we have already done so, that the answer cannot be "when you show up, we hit you; that the answer cannot be "I complete my programme or I do not complete my programme, and that is not sanctioned in any way. And we insist, we also want to talk about education. Yesterday in an intervention we came back to talk, in this case, about the FP. The counselor, I insist, went out to defend the highest quality indexes that would appear to have education in our country, and we are convinced that it is not so. I don't know if you intend to make a certain turn, in which there is still a term of office, we don't know, but we would recommend it, because the cost of what is going on in this country in public education, in the medium or long term, may not worry some of us, but some of us are very concerned, because without the public education of this country, many of us, today, sure we won't be here. As some of us want to stay here and want the working class, the working class, the less resourced people, the people who come from illiterate families, who have never climbed the universities, can continue to do so, this depends on their policies. And they'll stand up to us and raise barricades, if anything, more than after the PP teaches us posters and intends to discredit us. We will raise the barricades that you need in defense of the public education of this country. Not in doubt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.8.0	Yes, indeed, thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Congresswoman, another time. Very quickly, because I believe that this is a debate that, effectively, deserves, let's say, much more space, much deeper, much thicker, much more opportunities than this one we will have today. But in any case, since we have it, let's get it right something that you know very well and that the members of this chamber also know and out of this chamber. Do you know what this government is committed to at the end? To overcome the autonomic mark. That is to say, we have to overcome the autonomic mark, which we cannot follow in an autonomic mark that limits us – we limit ourselves – between other things, too, these types of debates. That's why we have so much to do at the time of overcoming this autonomous mark; that's why we need it so much; that's why it's so important that we move forward; that's why it's so important that we're going to overcome circumstances that we're stopping; that's why it's so important that we're going to do it; that's why it's so important that we're building a new country, a new country based on many of the reflections that you've made and that I share, individually and as a government; that's why it's so important to be where we are; that's why it's so important to do what we're doing, and that's why it's so important to do it in a comprehensive, solid, continuous way, without interbanks and with clear and absolute conviction that we have no other alternative to do it, because there's no other place on the table. That's why it's so necessary to do what we're doing, it's key, it's fundamental, it's vital, it's also vital, to face the background debate that you raised today and that I, I repeat, share it with the cent_per_cent– to the cent_per_cent– from the point of view of the background. Here we lack the difficulty, or we have to face the difficulty that we have at these times, that they are the tools, that in some cases – in some cases – they are absolutely enchanted by the current mark, and that what we want is to overcome this mark, as what we want is to free ourselves from these shackles with which we are at these moments institutionally, politically, socially, economically trapped, we want to move forward. This is the only reflection I can do here. With respect to the rest, we may be more or less in agreement on the background, on the matter, that is absolutely understandable, but I can only transmit it – I can't do anything else, I can transmit it – the will, the vocation, the determination that we have from this government to do what we have come to do. The debate will have, we will continue to have and so much good that we will never stop holding it, because a democratic society, a healthy society has these debates. I, in the end, it is precisely about building a country that allows these debates and that these debates allow a better country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.9.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about policies for large people]] [[300-00058/11]] The new item on the agenda is the question to the Government on policies for the great people presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mr. Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.10.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, councillor. The Socialist Parliamentary Group wanted to bring to the House the situation of a very important collection in Catalonia and of which we often speak a little, which is the great people. 18,5_percent of the population in Catalonia is more than sixty-five years old. In absolute terms, we are talking about 1,400,000 people who have suffered, as citizens of the right, the consequences of the economic crisis. We have listened on various occasions, through communication media, and also through some political leaders, that the great beneficiaries of the crisis have been the great people, and, in the band of being an offence to the collective, this statement is absolutely false. In any case, I would say that thanks to the great people this crisis has not been so strong. But this does not mean that the great people see thunder, after years of struggle and work to build the society in which we live, some of the rights achieved. At an instant rate, according to the INE's survey of living conditions, the poverty rate of the large people in Catalonia is 85.2_per_cent, a rate that drops to 14.4_per_cent when we add the whole system of pensions and social transfers. With great trets, we can conclude that the pension system is the cornerstone that improves the living conditions of large people. Hence the need to defend the public pension system as a mechanism to guarantee equal opportunities and, consequently, to criticise any attempt to privatize, lose purchasing power, two of the elements we face today. To talk about the pension system would not be for a ple or for an inquiry, but would be for a few plenums. And, in addition to the debate, Catalonia's legislative capacity on this issue is limited. Therefore, more than the demand for a public pension system that can be rethought in the framework of the Toledo Pact, Parliament and the Government share our thoughts on how we can contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of the people of our country and establish policies and actions and services aimed at this end in the light of the skills recognized by the State of Autonomy. In relation to these policies, actions, services or services, and taking into account the wide range of issues that we could address in this inquiry, but also time constraints, I will focus this inquiry on some aspects that we consider to be of special relevance. The first refers to the system of dependence on our country. Madam Counselor, we agree that the system of dependence on Calalunya will not be complete until the Government of the State makes the correct financing. Now, there have been some decisions that have been made in the contracting line and that, if they are still maintained today, they could leave a certain willingness on the part of the Government to stop financing some services that we consider to be primordial, which would facilitate entry to private operators who see today in the system of dependence a trading opportunity. I don't mean with this that we consider public-private collaboration to be bad. What we don't like is that every time it's less public and more private. The month of April of Encany in Catalonia has about 90,000 people with right to a benefit from the Law of Dependency, but without performance. And still today we have to add the 18,000 people who expect their appreciation. Of the 126,000 people who benefit – certainly the lowest xifra of the year's income – you see a small increase in home care and a drop in day and residence places. And on top of that, people cannot access a day centre and there are 6,742 places of residence and free day centres in our country. And these free seats, Counselor, cannot be occupied largely by the citizenry, because they cannot pay between 1,400 and 2,500 euros per month which is a place of residence in our country. It's all a luxury. That was why it was an error to delete the services linked to the residence. They recognized the error and recovered it only by those degrees III that complement with certain economic requirements, because services of degree II are almost not being given. And there's no need to make any more residences, ma'am, to open the rooms closed to public residences, to arrange more places and to give more services linked to the residence because the great people can access them. Let's see if this reduces the average of three years of waiting, of waiting list, that currently suffer large people so they can access a public square. It has certainly been impossible for me to access the PIA revaluation data, but you will know how I do – because you are a very close person and I know – that people with grade II who ask for a review of the degree of dependence for the deterioration of their physical conditions do not resonate with grade III; it is more, what is happening is that even the degree is reduced and, therefore, the resources to which they can access are reduced. Therefore, what we are asking for is political will to find the mechanisms that ensure that the great people I need can access a place of residence in Catalonia. In another order of things, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is very concerned about the subject of maltreatment of large people. The year 2015 saw 597 people detained in Catalonia for maltreatment of large people; in most cases, 80_per_cent, the authors of these maltreatments were spouses, children, relatives or very family-friendly people. A few weeks ago, the Third Sector Table made an act where this problem was raised on the table and some shortcomings were detected that we believe should be addressed urgently. According to FATEC, three opinions are abused every day in Catalonia, and 90_percent of victims do not report assaults. Since 2003, the Government has drawn up various plans, protocols for action, and has filled in the pocket of the Squadron Mosses as social agents in the detection of cases of maltreatment of large people, but the problem has not been resolved and still remains much to be done. Recently, the Interior Department drafted the 2015-2018 Large People's Security Plan, and it's going to be a good plan, it is; it talks about prevention, it talks about self-protection, it talks about planning, coordination, and it presents some concrete measures, but it wouldn't be the first time that in this Parliament, once the plan is done, the problem is over. We already know that the paper can handle everything, but in the area we are dealing with we have to make efforts to make the timetable, actions and also the premise. This plan has no associated assumption, and we consider that it would be useful to allocate economic and material resources to it to do it well, and in this sense we will set up in the motion following this inquiry some proposals to respect, such as, for example, putting a national pact for the safety of large people, included in the plan, or the need to establish specific services for large people who are abused, since today only the ingredient in a residence is the only possible way, and as long as I have explained it a while ago, it does not seem that it is a viable solution. In short time and I wouldn't like it if I didn't even mention a few other issues. There is a need on the part of the great people, many of whom they have, in relation to habitation. Mr Cal, she would advise, a determined policy aimed at adapting the habitats of the great people. Up to now, the best experiences have been completed by the joints and also by some members: changing toilets for dutxa dishes, but also arrangements to adapt the doors to the wheelhouses, to have energy efficiency conditions, and, above all, also, accessibility themes, elevators. Thousands of big people can't get out on the street or good because their housing has no elevator or good because it's absolutely impossible to install it for structural issues. What alternative does the government offer you? And those big people who can get out on the street, how do they move? It is obvious that the great people are on the sidelines of the collectivities that are moved by work or study, but it is also true that the great people gradually abandoned the private use of the vehicle, but they did not need to move. When medical visits and hospital visits are increased, work has been replaced by voluntary, social or family care and care obligations for dependents and infants. Cal, once and for all, unify the various social targets, subscriptions, discounts in a single valid notebook for all public transport in Catalonia, a model that already works successfully in some other countries around us as well as in other territories of the State. Today it is more than going from Sant Feliu de Llobregat to Molins de Rei – five miles away – than going from Castelldefels to Montgat – thirty-seven miles away. There would be a lot of fears to deal with and our commitment is to go about dealing with them in the next few months: the issues related to health, moving towards an integrated social and health model, all that it has to do with the formation of the great people, with participation, with friendly urbanism, the right to a dignified death, to active and dignified aging, or, at last, themes of dealing with the great people in the communication media. Madam will advise, in fact, I think you should address me to the government because, given the cross-cutting nature of this topic, warmth, perhaps..., you may not be able to answer all the indications I make to you, but in any case, we can have the debate, right? But, as the issue is cross-cutting, the Socialist Parliamentary Group believes that it is absolutely necessary to have a law of the great people, the same way that there is a law of childhood and adolescence, a law of the young woman, a law of the great people that reinforces the import of this collection, that recognizes her contribution to society, that allows us to advance towards a non-careful vision, that ends with the current dispersion of regulations, that determines the resources that are needed to meet their needs. This is what we have been calling for since the PSC, but it has also recently been called for by the Consell Consultio Comarcal de la Gent Gran del Baix Llobregat or, finally, by the Consell Comarcal del Baix Llobregat in a recently approved motion, and, more importantly, to greet his presence in this plenary. Because being a big person doesn't mean being a non-productive person, because they are retired from work but not retired from life, and because this country gave them to the big people – certainly, the year 2015 will represent 30_per_cent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.11.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.12.0	...of the people of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.13.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.14.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. The truth is, I like this question. I also greet the great people who are here, who, yes, are from Lower Llobregat, so welcome to Parliament, and also to the great people who are listening to us, for this inquiry..., especially the great people of the Catalan Council of the Great Gent, who, as you know, are renewing it and are about to take decisions and make changes. It is true, you have spoken of reptes, you have spoken of the most important reptes that we have at these times in society, and we are a government that we want to improve all political issues concerning great people. In fact, the national process that we carry out at these times as the country is driven, above all, to achieve a better welfare state, and here is a key point for the great people of our country. Freedom of as we want to see, as we want, for a band... but as you see with the achievement of higher quality of life levels for our people and, above all, for the great people, it is one of the priorities. The welfare state, we all know that it's based on a few premises and that it's based on the fact that our great people represent one of the most special collectivities, one of the collectivities that we need to quickly reach. You have begun your inquiry about the difficulties, talking about the problems – which I will then do – but I would like to start the other way around. I would like to begin, first, with the same data that you have given: 1,400,000 people now, at these times, have more than sixty-five years; therefore, this represents a Catalan or Catalan_each_yes. But a detail that has neglected to say, and it is that the hope of life every time is greater: if today is eighty-eight for the men, eighty-five for the women, the experts are saying that from 2025 they will possibly reach one hundred years. Therefore, this means that if they are 17,5_per_cent now the people who are more than sixty-five years old, 2026 will be 22_per_cent and 2050 will have doubled. If we are a legislature that we are making a transition to the future, to a future republic, it is very clear that this is an issue that is important and it is a subject that is key. So if we're talking about great people, we need to talk about three fundamental pillars: the physiological pillar, the social pillar, and the psychological-emotional pillar. But that would be the big people. As we, as the country, do not have to talk about three pillars, which must be the consensus and must be the consensus of the whole population, from the leadership of the public sector, from the entities of social services, goods or non-markets, because, as you have said, the public-private sector, more in a future in which we see that it will double the number of large people, will be important; from the experts of the people who are working there, from the third sector, and especially from the same large people. The legislative framework we have now, the Social Services Act, is a strategic tool, a strategic tool for the social services system. You talked about three key issues. The problem of a system of dependency..., that's why we're moving forward, that's why we're moving forward with a social protection agency; as you know this week we've presented ourselves to Parliament, but since the department we're working because this can be effective, because if we don't, we're changing the social protection system, if we don't unify the Service Portfolio, if we don't go to a Catalan social protection system independent of Spanish, which has many and many difficulties, we're not going anywhere, and that's why we're working. You talked about the addiction system. We must not forget, when we talk about the system of dependence, that the Spanish Government's responsibilities, which are against the Law of Dependence, affect us all, and a lot, but above all we must remember that it is a law that was carried by the Socialist Party, that it is true that it represented a step forward in the recognition of the right subject for dependent people, that it represented the fourth pot, but it is also true that it was badly financed and it is also true that it was badly dimensioned, and now we all pay for the consequences; therefore we have said many times, that while we bring in an 83_per_cent the Government of the State provides a 17_per_cent. Therefore, if you were well-sized and well-funded at these times, we would not find ourselves in this situation. We will promote the participatory process for a law of dependence and the participatory process for a law, above all, of personal autonomy, of Catalonia, with the agreement of the parliamentary groups, with the agreement of the third sector, which we have already started talking about – you have spoken about words that have been said by the third sector; know that we have already found ourselves to work on this issue – with service providers and, above all, with citizens in general, because we can make proposals and suggestions and decide exactly which law we want for this personal autonomy. But I want to talk about three things. And the first is, as you said, the great active people, the great people who neglected to say, the ones who are only helping the family support, but the ones who devote hours to training, who enjoy varied activities and do volunteering tasks. Of these people there is a lot; it is the people who bring experience to others, who do business, who create solidarity and what they do is to be mentors. I think that here, from this rostrum, I want to pay tribute to all these people, that it's a lot more than it's ever been, and that you've neglected to say at these times. And another thing they have is that perhaps the economy has lost value; listening to the expert and listening to the great people we return to have those values that the country needs for a better future. All this is what has to be and what has to be... that the quality of life has much more to see with the big people and with the big active people... than many of the people we're here. Therefore, active aging is one of the priorities, just as it is one of the priorities to be on the side of the people who are soft, of the large people who are soft, of the great people who are fighting, of the great people who teach us not to give up and of the "Iioflautes, also, because they are the ones who claim to what with time has been lost and that we want to hold back. That's why we push, again, the Council of the Great Gent, as I said. You have also dealt with two issues: the sustainability of pensions – and I like the way it goes, because, as I said to the principle, as we do not have a Catalan social protection agency, the sustainability of pensions perilla, and you know it as clearly as I know it – as well as the migration of some of them that, from the Spanish State, are offering our great people; just as we could talk about poor economics, poor energy, that you have not already done anything. Therefore, to make possible a system of public pensions, with sufficient amounts, of distribution and solidarity, that guarantees the quality of life to our pensioners in view of the future ways of our state, and that helps to confront the poor economics with our law, the law of social protection. That said, I can talk to you about other issues, you're afraid we've come up with, but above all, a very important issue, which you've also dealt with, which is the subject of abuse. It is true that data tell us that education, age discrimination, is the third cause of discrimination in the world, after racism and sexism. Therefore, we will promote policies, first of all, of sensitivity to children and young people, and to the rest of society, about what this education is about; specific services for abused people; protection resources for these great abused people; training for professionals and the great people. And that's why we believe and set aside a unit of detection and prevention of abuse against the big people and urgent attention to big people, victims of family abuse. We are already preparing a plan against abuse and abuse to the great people, who bring prevention, but also the design of the intervention circuit on the abuse that is effective. And this we are already doing, as I said, at an initial stage, with the table of the third sector, focused on a planned survey...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.15.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.16.0	Yeah. And we keep working on it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.17.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.18.0	Thank you, President. It's just that it's very complicated, ma'am, because the subject is so transversal that it's been a few minutes, but we're seeing some of the things that you've said. First of all, I'd like some of the things I put into the beginning. I mean, there's gonna be more housing-related benefits, yeah or no? I say because, of course, if we look at the project of assumptions that you have presented, the economic benefits linked to the service, in these assumptions of the year 2016 are 4,400,000_euros less than the year 2015– for PEVS – ; 22,700,000_euros less than the year 2015 in economic benefits for non-professional caregivers; 141,000_euros less than the economic performance of personal assistance. In the presupposition, the great social presupposition of the history of Catalonia, there is an increase in themes of promotion of the personal autonomy of a 3_per_cent, it is 42_million euros; 63_million euros less than those that were destined for the year 2012. So, when you talk about the construction of this future country, what remains for us to build... – we are twelve, thirteen months, eh? , for the disconnection – you talk to us, therefore, this, of the Catalan Agency of Social Protection, which is a bad copy of ICASS – is a bad copy of ICASS – and, moreover, does not back down health benefits. And, therefore, the integration of the social and health model, as at least in this Catalan agency, you have not raised it. And what I would like is that when we talk about the situation of the great people in Catalonia, and consider that in a future, as you well said, and I also at the end of my intervention, the thickness of the great people in Catalonia, in a future, will be much higher than what we currently have, do not bind the debate of the conditions of life of the great people to independence. Don't give us the easy speeches that when we get to independence here there won't be any kind of problem; don't tell us, more than that, that this Law depends on the fact that, while having financial problems, God doesn't know what he has done for many people than at these times, during these years, he has found himself in a crisis situation... because, if it was for the Government of the Generality, as he has done in other sectors of the population, the great people in this country would be absolutely abandoned. And, therefore, to make this reflection that with independence alone are sores that the great people can live better, is more demagogic, to which we are already accustomed in this Parliament. And, in any case, five years ago this Parliament had a Catalan law of dependence, which had prepared it – until we still had the eraser, which I don't know what happened to this eraser, whether it's forgotten it or not – and now we're starting with the participation process, which I understand at the time of the disconnection we were supposed to have a little fact, right? There's fourteen months left, thirteen months left... it's that I've lost count, but there's not much more than a year left. And I would also like to know whether or not you consider it necessary to have a law of the great people in Catalonia. Yes or no? Because, if that's the case, we'll make our offer. But it is not a proposal or a demand that makes this Member or this parliamentary group, it is a proposal that sees the very bodies of participation, of one of the bodies of participation of the same Council of the Great Gent. And I don't understand, exactly, why you, at these moments – and I would ask you concretely – don't answer a question as simple as that. About the themes of mistreatment. I told him in my opening statement that there's a good plan for the Interior Council. It's a good plan, but we need to put dates, we need to put calendars. Three big people a day are abused in this country. And, therefore, you in your speech... I was expecting a little more concrete, but just what you've been through, let's say, is to use this easy speech, which is all about passing, but everything that's good is about to come, but for the time being, when you're in government, there's no remarkable policy that we can bring to this Parliament, that you can say that you've improved the living conditions of the great people. And I believe that the great people deserve, as a minimum, a certain respect from the Parliament, the Government, with regard to what are the problems of the day to day, from the people who cannot leave the house, what housing alternative do we give them? Of the people who can't access a residence because they can't afford it, and they won't be able to pay it in their own year or in their own two years! And if it's true that the population is on the rise, this is going to be a big problem. Independence or not independence, the sun will continue to rise. And so what the government has to do is make the right predictions because the great people of today, and what they are great about a few years from now, but the great people of today, have the right living conditions, because they deserve it, because they need them and because they can't feel that they are forgotten by this government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.19.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Some applause.]] There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Congressman. Listen, hear him tell you exactly that it's thanks to the Law of Dependence that we're on top of it. And on top of that, I would like to give you some data: Catalonia has stopped collecting 336 million euros to finance the Law of Dependency. Do you know what that would mean? 18,150 residential places and 37,300 persons to the protection system. And you know as well as I do that more than 60 percent of people who apply for dependency have more than seventy years. So they're money that would go to the big people. So, to say that Catalonia is thanks to the Law of Dependence that we endure is to say a lot and a lot. But, more than that, you cheat on the lonely, because you talk to us about the DAS – you talk about the DAS – and you know that one of the policies that this government has is to pay, to finance exactly the home care service through the program contracts; program contracts that we carry from the Department of Social Action, that they give to the large assembly or to the local councils and that they have a financing that it serves for four years, a financing so that it is not possible only a palliative policy, but also because it has an agreement. In relation to this dependency SAD, which I say is assigned through the program contract, I will tell you that the year 2015 the signature was 46,636,429 euros for those district councils and those joints that I needed for its great people. This year, this 2016, it's 56.025..., sorry, 56.25.771 – I have a number problem – so 10_million more than it was last year. So that's politics for the big people, that's home care policy, because if you look at the diaries, today you'll see that one of the studies you've presented is that the big people, every once in a while, want to live home, on condition, with a support, like this one from SAD – and, therefore, our policy is this – and accompanied by their people and their place. So, this is... And besides, with the third sector, as I said, we've talked a lot about it, and that's one of the points... but we don't have enough. We are talking about linked economic performance. More than 1,000 new seats are scheduled for 2016 and, if we approve the presupposition, 2017 will not be another 1,000 more. Therefore, we also open, what you say, these economic benefits linked to much more. In addition, 1,500 new seats, which, of these 1,500 seats, 1,000 for large people; it is true that they cannot be made public – you also know that LEBEP limits them to making public seats. We've spoken to some of them together: we'll open closed-down residences, we've already told them we'll open them, and 1,000 public seats, concerts, private management but our public concertation, will be open. So we don't cheat on the lonely. Unfortunately, you say: "With what is inside, there is enough. So, we consider that no, that only with the Interior is not enough, that the fears of maltreatment are important. From this department we have already talked about it and we have commented on it, with the consent of great people, because thanks to... – the people of Baix Llobregat are here, but you know that there are all of Catalonia –, and we have already made a round with a few tips, and what I can tell you is that there is not enough, because only a treatment seen, pal·liatiu, des d'Interior..., I need everything: we need prevention, we need to be at the side of the great people and we need, above all, a phone, just as we have the childhood, for great people, to be at their side in the first moment and to be able to detect, before passing, the abuse. And here at the department be very quiet and we'll be next door... The law... listen, I wasn't in the last legislature, as you know very well. I don't like others, they're all legislatures. I want a participatory country, with a participatory democracy. And, therefore, start because a new republic is possible. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.21.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the local world]] [[300-00059/11]] The aim of the agenda is to ask the Government about the local world, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, Ms. Eva Martínez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.22.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. MPs, MPs, Catalonia is vertebrae and cohesive through its municipalities, land raids, 948 gatherings raise the blind every day to donate services and to donate responses to its citizens. In this hemisphere, we are many who, like elected officials – mayors, mayors, governors or governors – live on the day-to-day of our villains, intensively, and I believe that we all follow the game that we follow, with the sincere conviction that municipal administrations are the closest to giving rapid answers to the problems and needs that we see and see every day. In fact, the same government – with the president, who was mayor of Girona, Mr Puigdemont ; also the councillor Junqueras, who was mayor of Sant Vicenç dels Horts, or you, councillor, who was director of the second most important city of Catalonia – knows, then, first hand, the greats and miseries of municipal management. We can recall the European Charter of Local Autonomy, the principle of subsidiarity, and many other arguments for efficiency, efficiency or fairness in the provision of services. There are many arguments in favour of increasing the resources managed by local entities. But it is that, moreover, the reality shows us how the assemblies and local administrations have been, which more quickly have articulated measures to reduce the situation of social emergence and have helped families directly. In fact, the proximity policies of the municipalities have been most useful in identifying and combating inequalities, and also in creating conditions for reactivating the economy and for sustainable growth and respect for the environment. Unfortunately, in the past few years the municipal governments have not found the necessary support from other administrations to fight against the great inequalities generated by the crisis and the retail policies, the generalities of Catalonia and the Spanish state, which have not cregued in the local world. In fact, the central government and the government of the generality have lost the role of the assemblies and have often failed to provide the essential resources for its functioning and for the provision of basic services, reflecting its financial difficulties, and, even so, and paradoxically, have pushed laws to weaken the role of the assemblies in an attempt to turn them into a second administration. But now – now – we have the opportunity to place the municipalities at the centre of the agenda, and we believe that this shared objective needs to be translated into resources for the local world. Nevertheless, the actions of this government do not seem to be going on this path. First of all, there is no clear bet on the government plan that was submitted to the 100-day mandate to increase resources to be managed directly for the assemblies and, therefore, it does not recognize the good work done for the local world. In our opinion, the Government Plan confirms the understatement of the local world; of the seventy-nine objectives, only a talk of municipal administration, and of the 750 measures that are only specific. And, if we go into the detail of the measures, one of them is a local investment plan to empower and restructure PUOSC, which at the moment has no resources between this legislature. It does not seem that the measures of good practices are insufficient actions, such as the PUOSC maintenance, to modify the criteria of execution of the PUOSC 2008-2012, to make an order for catastrophic damages or the processing of Feder aids. That, in our view, is not good practice. In any case, they're going through administration. These measures are an offence to the municipalist tradition. Secondly, the proposals that President Puigdemont presented to the President in Rajoy's office: we found that there was a lack of forceful measures to deal with the difficult situation of the assemblies; in fact, we only found at measure 38 an allusion to the fateful law of rationalisation and sustainability of the local administration, a very minimal allusion that does not solve the problems of the municipalities. The Government of the Generality has filed an appeal of unconstitutionality, like many additions, for the invasion of competitions, but beyond the limitations of the LRSAL caldre to speak of modification and derogation of the effects of application of Law 2/2012, of presuppositional instability and sustainability to finance. This law limits the joints that they manage well, and that can't be spent the surplus assumptions on services and investments that are so necessary. We believe that it must be possible for local governments to make investments and provide services to the territories, and the Catalonian Federation of Municipalities has already called for this. Well, one of the false assumptions for the reform of the failed LRSAL was the correction of the severe imbalances and deficits in the local accounts. Now official data shows that the financial economic situation of local entities is fairly soluble to generate estalvi; while the public deficit continues uncorrected in the autonomous and state public sectors. We really hope that the convention on the local world that is to be made in November will serve to clarify local competitions, resources and services. In this sense, from the Socialist Group, you will find our support, rigour and experience in local public management; a support that will always be focused on the better of the local world and not on the creation of state structures of a trip, that of independence, which we do not share. Thirdly, the draft assumptions they have submitted. It has been said actively and passively that they are the most social assumptions of history, and these more social assumptions of history again confirm that municipalities are not priorities. For example, the departure of the Local Cooperation Fund for the conjunctions and the departure for the PUOSC is completely insufficient. If we compare data, by 2010 it was 87_million euros, against 10_million euros of the bill. And if we compare the total current transfers and investments of the bill submitted and 2010, we find that it is down a 23_per_cent. In 2010, the Generalitat transferred 1,922_million euros to the joints, and in the draft law of 2016 is reduced to 1,475_million euros. Therefore, let us not say things that are not and follow strict. In fact, the biggest increase in transfers is the EIP, which does not depend on the Generality and which, fortunately, is directly linked to the State. Thus, we have not seen in the Law of Presuppositions the resolution approved by Parliament to guarantee the financing of children's homes – we find it missing. But today it is not up to us to talk in detail about these assumptions, that if they pass the processing of the papers to the totality, they will see the commission and we will already analyze them with detention. On the other hand, it is up to us to talk about the real debt, the real debt that the Generalitat has with the joints of this country. I'd like to be rigorous and say what this debt is today, June 2, 2016, but this given time we don't have it; all that has been asked for by active and passive being able to have these data on the transparency web of the Generality, we can't know, today, what this debt is. Even so, we do have the answers to parliamentary questions, where it is said that this debt is EUR 633 million, and, in concrete terms, EUR 594 million for the joint ventures, that is to say, EUR 418 million more than the assumption made by the Directorate-General for Local Administration. There must be a payment plan for this debt, which would be the recognition and from which we would like to have these data, but above all it must be that the entire debt is recognised and that it does not know; many joints have brought their accounts to us and we need to make more debt. But we also need to talk about moral debt with the gatherings. These years of retailing have been terrible; we have seen how existing resources are reduced and eliminated: the PUOSC of the 2012-2015 legislature, which has been approved and which has not been halted; the elimination of investments in the town hall of activities aimed at the better of social and urban cohesion; the reduction of the SOC's employment plans; the total paralysis of programmes, for years, of the Barley, of urban rehabilitation policies or of the Barley of the better of urbanisations; the financing of municipal children's homes; and the retailing of cultural, sports aids. So, it's a waste to solve this local world-wide hardship, this real debt, and this moral debt. But if that wasn't enough, bitch! In the last few weeks, a lot of gatherings are receiving a letter from your department to regularize the figure of the treasurer in a national function. Are you aware of the difficulty of completing this? Do you know the lack of personnel of this type? How will the assemblies help to address this issue and, if not, the lack of qualified professionals, secretaries, intervenors and treasuries, which undermines the legal security and economic rigour of municipal accounts? Well, gatherings need help. But I want to end up in good shape. We work, she advises, for the assemblies, we improve cooperation towards the local world and we approve measures to support municipal investments, and, above all, we increase transfers towards the assemblies in a decisive way, they have already shown that they know how to manage very well. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.23.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.24.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, in the first place, let me thank you for allowing us here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, to talk about the local world. You said, and I think I did well, that this is a government that in good measure goes from the local world and that, therefore, you believe, you know and know exactly what you're talking about and also exactly what you're suffering in all its magnitudes. So, in this sense, I don't think it's fair when you say that this government doesn't recognize the work being done by the local world. This... knows that in this speech he will not find us; he will find us in the opposite, in the recognition of the work that is done in the local world. Not just for myself, the person responsible for the environment, therefore, municipal, the local environment, but for the government's conjunction, for which you said: we are aware that the gateway to the citizens of Catalonia is basically the local world, its assemblies, and, therefore, this is a subject that in no case we may need, all the contrary. And, therefore, the local administration, I insist, is the first to detect the problems, but to me I would also like you to explain, in this sense, when you say that there is this least, that the LRSAL is not our thing – it has certainly already said it –; that we have also made an unconstitutional appeal, certainly, and that this was not just the issue that President Puigdemont was bringing to the time to go and talk to President Rajoy, but that, when we listen, when we talk about the resources that we need for the Catalonian conjunct, we are also talking about resources for the local world. And here I must say that I have found myself missing – and I would have liked it, because you know and participate in this criteria –..., that if the Government of Catalonia does not pay or cannot pay as it would want to the local world it is precisely for the economic effect that we are patenting. And this is a topic that you participate in, that you know and that, therefore, man! Listen to me, so... don't you just base your intervention on this, but as I quote it one time; that's to say that we require that, because the Government of Catalonia can pay its municipalities, it can also pay to which are the district councils, etc., that the resources of the Government of Catalonia arrive, because here who collects them is the Spanish Government and these don't bring them to us. Therefore, I was able to meet with more than two hundred mayors with the time that I was a councillor; I was able to listen, to contrast..., not only for my own experience, but also through them; to learn, to take notes, also, and, therefore, to try to give it an answer. And they are aware... obviously, I won't tell you the contrary, they claim, logically, that when we look better to face the payment of our debts. But they also say to me: "We know, however, what the Government of Catalonia is patenting; we know, however, that you can do what you can, as we have shown now, and here in your Parliament announced that when we had, therefore, money to be able to pay, for example, from the Barrel Plate, we have done so. And this is one thing that we all need to be very clear, as well as you, that the first thing that's done when money comes to the Government of Catalonia is to pay, so, for example, the Barrel Plate. And you tell us that there's... that you don't know the debt. I think he didn't look at it well: on the page of transparency there is. On the page of... on the portal, excuse me, of transparency there is, there is in a public form. We have said that we are going to do it, so updating, not every day, logically, but that we are going to do it periodically, and I am already advancing it: on the 31st of December 2015, which is what is published at these times, the debt that we, therefore, manifest that there is with the local world is 633_million euros, and it is a xifra that, obviously, we do not like, we would like to eliminate, but I insist, until we can dispose of our money, that is very complicated. So, listen, over the last year we have made an important effort to transfer to local authorities a total of EUR 106_million, EUR 80_million to local authorities, EUR 26 for the Barrel Plate, and, therefore, in this sense, despite the fact that you did not seem like that, the government prioritizes the assemblies; we are therefore aware of the work they do, but I will also say one thing: we have prioritized as it seems to us that it is just that it is done. And, for example, so, we've eliminated the debt of what it is..., we've transferred in an important way to those municipalities with which we had a debt greater than 50 percent of its assumption. At a time when the Generality gives him more than 50 percent of his assumption, it is obvious that we are causing him, therefore, a very important weight. Therefore, this is a topic that we have wanted to eliminate, so, from one shot, taking into account that we must logically eliminate the oldest debt, and therefore seek to reconcile the two things simultaneously. But, said that, listen to me, you say that we do things practically and I will allow you to make a little reminder. Listen, local cooperation fund. To the local cooperation fund we have put more and less than, in total, for the joints as for the regional councils, 124_million euros; we made this year 2015 this call. Or, for example, a topic that is not strictly about money, but which is also important: we have extended the execution of PUOSC to one year, because, therefore, we can materialize the different joints, and therefore, in this sense, there is no loss of money that was good, of its interest. Sometimes, I insist, the issue is not just a matter of money. Or, for example, we have also made an important effort in the whole Feder theme. Do you know that only Catalonia does Feder at the local level? To the rest of the autonomous communities the Feders don't pass through the local world? So, this isn't a subject of any kind, it's not a minor subject, if I may say so. Listen to me, we have put 45_million euros at the disposal of the local world for which are the axes 4 and 6 of the European Regional Development Fund, and here we have them. Or, for example, we have put in 50_millions – that at these times, so you know that the assemblies are working there, and strong – for a new call for projects of specialisation and territorial competitiveness. This is not a Feder that can enjoy, therefore, the other territories of the State. Or, listen'm, we've got 14_million euros for the joints, precisely, in eleven cross-border projects, the one that's called the POCTEFA, right? , and therefore we collaborate, therefore, from Catalonia, but also from the French State and also from Andorra ; and, therefore, in this sense, we have obtained these millions that will also help many municipalities to bring forward some projects that they have. Or, listen'm, therefore, everything he represents, and before I said it, he could have paid and reduced, in this sense, in 26_million euros the payments of the Barley. Therefore, listen to me, and you know that if we have assumptions – and this is our will – we will have 20_million euros more, 10 per Barrel Plate and 10, precisely, by plans of shock in the matter that we are so interested in. Or there's another place, right? – that I believe this is not a matter of money, but that the gatherings thank us, and very much – that it is all the collaboration and the role that we can play and that, therefore, it helps us so much in that it is the Open Administration of Catalonia. In this sense, you know, precisely, that we have helped to make the whole issue of transparency a lot together, that we have also helped, also, to make the window unique also a lot together. And this, listen to me, is a topic that doesn't count in the area of money, but that counts at the time of management and of being able to be in the citizen's corner and, precisely, donating tools to the citizen. Or the work that makes, important and relevant, the School of Public Administration of Catalonia, right? , of formation to the elects, but also of formation, so, in all that is the people who work, the public will function, in the different assemblies. This is also a very important issue, because here we have done work in the field of transparency; we have done work, for example, very important in the whole issue of housing; we have done a great deal of training in the meetings in this matter, and this is a matter that is relevant and that we take seriously and, therefore, listen to us, sincerely, this is a government that is at the side of the meetings in all: in the defence of their competences, as has been, for example, our complaint – and so you also told us – in eliminating what is the LRSAL, or also in the whole issue – listen, I have no doubt – of defending the resources of the meetings. This is a matter that we have done directly through, so ask him to pay for what is right and what is right, but also indirectly, because you know that if this government has the resources that are theirs, who will not suffer for sure are the joints because, so the money comes, they also arrive at the joints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.25.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Some applause.]] I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.26.0	Well, thank you. I had pointed out here to thank you all... well, I think I can now thank you for all your intervention, and while we have differences in this recognition with respect to the management ability and the good work done for the local world, I think we can talk, we can work, and this I do from the hope and the illusion that we can take measures that increase the resources managed by the local administration. Well, he said it wasn't fair because they weren't recognizing the work that had been done from the generality to the local administration. Well, there's work going on, but we don't think it's enough and that these good intentions will also reflect with more resources. Local administrations, I've already commented, manage a lot better and can manage a lot more resources; so, that the local world manages more resources because, moreover, it does a lot better and it's the Administration that is closest to the city. When we talk about the LRSAL, I also said that the government of the State's lack of support, too, for the assemblies, and it has demonstrated it with this Law of Rationalization and it has also demonstrated it with this Law of Presuppositional Enabling that it offers us the assemblies that they manage well. Therefore, in the State, in the Generality, we need more resources from the State for the conjunctions. When they were commenting and talking about the payment of the 36-million-euro Barn Plate, well, it's all insufficient. We are speaking that the debt, at 31 December 2015, was 633_millions. If we haven't paid 36, plus another 100_millions– I don't know if the 36_millions are included in the 100_millions he said, paying, what happened during this 2016 – the reality is that they still have to pay 533_millions of euros. Well, the listing's terrible, isn't it? , of the gatherings and their debts. For example, Juntament de Badalona, 4,897,000_euros; Juntament de Cornellà, 4,584,000; Juntament de Martorell, 4,186,000_euros; Juntament de Mataró, 6,691,000_euros; Juntament de Mediona, 817,000_euros. We owe all the provinces, we owe all the time, we owe all the businesses, we owe practically to all the municipalities. The list is great, we have 948 municipalities and, therefore, I can't, in time, talk about it one by one. It has been commented that at the time of making this payment plan it is being taken into account to pay those joints that have more than 50_percent of..., that their debt represents more than 50_percent of their assumption. Well, according to my data, Figaro-Montmany would be among these municipalities and his debt hasn't paid off yet. In fact, if we look at the debt per inhabitant, there are gatherings, especially the smallest, that this debt is brutal. For example, 3.928_euros per inhabitant of Gisclareny, 2.903_euros per inhabitant of Bausen, in the Vall d'Aran, or the example he set, 1.049_euros per inhabitant of Figaró-Montmany. Therefore, it is necessary to establish this payment plan and to take into account, therefore, the difficulties that are faced by the municipalities with their municipal finances. Because, we also have to say that the one who is not paying the Generality must face up to the assemblies, that they also have a very strict law with the payment of their bills, and with these assemblies must establish financing measures, already through loans with financial entities, and they must be interested in being able to pay these bills a day. In summary, yesterday we found in his parliamentary office that Catalonia was not a country for children, and today we find that Catalonia, if they did not change the priorities of the Government, is not a country for assemblies. I insist on the position, because from this plenary we demonstrate with our proposals that Catalonia is indeed a country in common. We are in time to change and if, as it seems, a new draft of the premise is to be presented, we are demanding that the demands of the local world be incorporated. I end up with the hope that this debate will not remain in the area and allow all groups in the chamber to gather as our local administrations deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.27.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.28.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Yeah, it's a good question, too, isn't it? And so, in this sense, that's a good thing. "We are discussing – as a friend of mine said – "in the corner and not in the Spanish. Discussing in English is, therefore, a matter of talking and, therefore, opposing ideas. Listen to me, a couple of issues I haven't answered before. Well, a subject I didn't answer before, and I didn't want to let him go through with it. Treasurer. He tells us: « Send us a letter claiming the treasurer, etc. Home, there is a state rule that from there, we send the letter, we do not impose sanctions, and also in this letter, and it would be good if I said so, we put ourselves at the disposal to help them. So, in this sense, man, what more do we want to do? For us it is a rule, I insist, that we have been against it; that if the assemblies do not complete they will have a problem, and, therefore, what we do is make us willing to help them. It seems to me that this is the answer: that the Government of the Generalitat is able, I insist, to the side of the assemblies. Another one... with the theme of intervention, right? Listen to me, it's so hard and so attached to our hands that we find that what we went through was that we had the ability to have... to appoint officers, so that's what they've done to us. And, therefore, we can no longer train brokers in Catalonia, and with that we lose them. And so, this is a subject that I didn't attribute to us. And, I insist, in his speech, again, I found myself lacking to say, so, listen to me, where are the evils coming from, right? The evils are not for the bad management of the government, the evil is because they don't give us the resources that are ours. And you'd have to take that into account. Believe me, the majority assembly, at least – you are mayor and, therefore, I can't tell you all – but, of mayors, these two-cents that I told you that I have seen, they are very conscious, and they manifest it to me. And then, when we get into the concrete cases, we could obviously read, with a list of €633 million that all the assemblies must have money, if not, we would do the wrong thing, huh? Why do you mean you don't... listen to me, that you don't have a debt... why? Because he's a friend, because he's a friend, because he's a friend, because... no. That, then, saddenedly, it's a little bit for each one. That said, man, give me some examples that... listen to me, with all my esteem, take into account the examples that set me. Introducing the examples you don't pay. We don't pay because they haven't submitted the accounts, and a people who don't submit the accounts can't pay. So Figaro and Montmany and Bausen don't pay them because they haven't done what they're playing. What would you say if we paid for those joints that don't hold accounts? Home, please! We can't complain about what we can't and don't have to do; we can't just do it because we don't have to do it because we have to do things right and we have to report the accounts. And that's the point. Bausen isn't that he hasn't introduced us since six months ago or a year ago or two years ago: since 2009 – since 2009. Home, so, there it is! And I don't want to talk about it any more because, you know, it's hard for me to tell the truth, I wouldn't have spoken if you hadn't told me. Say that, listen to me, Barley. We have devoted a great deal of effort to resolving this situation and it is irrefutable that we, therefore, have time to be able to make the payments and that the assemblies can take on board, but you see a political formation that knows that this Barley, the year 2009 and the year 2010, when you opened these calls for a value of 198_million euros, came up more bills than you paid. I mean, the debt has already left us, in this matter. Therefore..., man, you were not able to face the justifications that you already had, and despite the fact that you already noticed that there was, therefore, a result of the economic crisis, a decrease in the entrances of the Generalitat de Catalunya, you were not sure whether very brave or a reckless hair to make two new calls of 198_million euros, and therefore leaving the Generalitat in a complicated situation, sense of doubt. Say this, listen to me, look... look at the global. We haven't seen each other since the first day, or because we can't, or because it's not the will of this government. We certainly have debts; this is equivalent to the 5,6_per_cent of the global assumption of the assumptions of the assemblies of Catalonia; it is obvious that it has the weight that it has, this 5,6_per_cent; it is obvious that we do not like it, but it is also clear that the government's compromise is power, therefore, to allege, and in measure, I insist, that the money arrive in Catalonia, these money also arrive at its assemblies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.29.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. In view of the request made by the Government, the proposals, in accordance with Article 81.3 of the Rules, the following alteration of the order of the day, in such a way that point 15, relating to the inquiry to the Government on the Mediterranean Corridor, can be substantiated as point 13, and this point, relating to the inquiry to the Government on the promotion of entrepreneurship, is founded as point 15. In this way we will substantiate the three last questions in this order: 15, 14 and 13. Can this change be approved by consent? [[Pause.]] Thank you. The order of the day, therefore, is changed in this sense. [[Asking the Government about its inaction before the situation of social emergence]] [[300-00060/11]] The next point is: a question to the Government about its inaction before the situation of social emergence, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.30.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President of the Government, the Catalans look at how the Government of Spain has been in office for seven months now, and what it is expected to have, while the Government of the Generalitat has been in office for four months, but it is four months of instability, contradictions, disconcertingness, non-advancedness and inaction. You, after the sinking of the government of Mas, arbitrated a sort of raft made with pieces of wood, and there you embarked two antagonistic political forces and each row towards a site, and you also embarked some gentlemen who are constantly mutining and making navigation absolutely difficult. You are that unstable artifact, which does not know very well where it is going, which goes to the mercy of the wind and which distracts the passage by saying to them that calmly – that calmly – that we sail, that we are going to Ithaca, but the truth is that the problems that the Catalans who resolve themselves are not being able to worry about them, because you are too busy in keeping it floated, simply in keeping it floated, with that lucky device that you have tied up to make yourself sail. The real problems of the Catalans, Mrs Neus Munté, are in several sections, and above all they are based on the anguish that many people suffer in the social sphere. We have a health care with more than 650,000 people on waiting lists, waiting to make a first visit to the doctor; the average delay time is 163_days; there are almost six months to see a doctor, not to mention heart, esophageal or colon problems, which sometimes have to wait more than a year. And there is a lack of transparency in the management of waiting lists. Nor have you made a strategic plan to combat AIDS. You're drowning the pharmacists with your defaults. All that defective management of health – which is that it is not really management, that you let the ship go where the wind carries it – is not what we from the opposition are proposing to you. We have presented a proposal for a law that obliges to be transparent and to publish waiting lists in an accessible way, so that the citizen user can evaluate with objective parameters the punctuality and quality of the service he receives; that citizens users can know and control their place on waiting lists, always saving the privacy of all users. These are measures that do not require large budget disbursements, which require minimal budget disbursements. As for dependency and disability, you are applying the Dependency Act very slowly, and you have even jumped to the news that there have been people who have died waiting to receive the pension they were owed from dependency. We also suggest here that you do things – you do things – even if it is to facilitate access to the lists of citizens, as we propose in a proposal of law that is about to be presented, that it obliges you to be transparent and to publish in an accessible and proactive way the average evaluation times on the degree of dependence; the times of implementation of the accompanying programs of dependent people, and the delay in the access and payment of benefits; we want the user citizen to be facilitated to know and control his place on the waiting lists; you to establish mechanisms and principles of objective evaluation of quality and punctuality in the provision of social services. And speaking of social services, the Social Service Delivery Portfolio we are repeatedly asking for it to be updated; that since 2011 it has not been updated, the Social Services Portfolio, and that causes a clear decrease in both the number and the quality of the services of the Administration that must be offered in quality conditions to the most disadvantaged citizens. We have insisted on this several times. Do something; update the Social Services Portfolio. With regard to aid to the most disadvantaged, and especially to the area of energy poverty, this has become a battlefield with the Government of Spain, which is truly making it fatal and which does not legislate the framework laws that would facilitate the development of legislation for self-government, but that from our autonomy we can do a great deal to alleviate the situation of people in energy poverty. What we do not do is use politically and demagogically the poor, who cannot be paid for supplies, to attack the Government and pursue that ultimate goal that you claim is independence. You are allowing..., do not use, have not used the money enabled to pay the bills of people suffering from energy poverty; you have stopped using more than 20_per_cent of the money destined for it. We have tabled a bill in the social sphere..., which, by the way, you have not tabled any social bill, none – none. And we have put forward a proposal for a law that provides financial aid for the most disadvantaged families with children under the age of eighteen. This assistance should also be increased in the case of single-parent families or their dependent disabled children. We have also put forward a proposal for a law which allows, with full use of the competences in the field of social services of the Generalitat, to tackle the problems of energy poverty in a comprehensive and structural way. Also, that the Generalitat be obliged to reintegrate into the municipalities the expenses that they have incurred in the provision of social services related to energy poverty in favour of the most disadvantaged persons. We have put forward a project to encourage social and affordable rental contracts for the most disadvantaged. As regards the fundamental rights of Catalans, what have you done to develop measures for the protection of LGBTI people? You already have legislation and you have not started to implement it, you have not put it into effect, and it is not because we have not urged you to do so again and again from the opposition. With regard to abused and unprotected minors, he had come here as a signpost of hardship, and his Government had been portrayed in his reports as the last person responsible for the public care centres for minors in which, according to the signpost, minors were subjected to torture, abuse and abandonment; you had been told as the Government of tail children and runaway children. In this, we have put forward initiatives with urgent and necessary measures to prevent all forms of abuse of children in school, as well as children in foster care, who have the necessary attention. Anyway. With regard to the socio-economic inequalities of Catalan families in the field of education, what have you done to promote the equality of all people in the field of education in Catalonia? For I will tell you what Citizens have done, which is to propose a law so that, in compliance with the LEC, families have access to free text books, for example. And we have also presented initiatives, or are about to present ourselves – we have already made it known – on a rationalization of duties, because the burden of duties borne by Catalan children is already evident that affects the equality of families, that some cannot help their children to properly complete school tasks, the most disadvantaged families, while the others would benefit from the cultural or purchasing level of the family. Anyway. You have not done anything about good governance, corruption and transparency, and we find, in conclusion, that your Government is the Government of inaction in the face of the social emergency. You have been..., for four months now that the news is your discrepancies as to whether or not the IRPF can, or should or should not be increased, within your government, that the news is whether you present budgets that have parliamentary support for the government or not. You are immersed in a road map that you know you will not be able to carry out. You, all the legislative initiatives you present, which are intended to undermine the regulatory framework, find opposition from the central government, and you are unable to go to negotiate with the central government so that the legislative measures for the benefit of all Catalans can be taken forward. You, in short, abandoning centrality, have become irrelevant in Spanish politics. And that, Mrs. Neus Munté...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.31.0	Mr. Congressman, I know it's hard, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.32.0	... is what... – I finish already – is what we want it to stop being so, for the benefit of all Catalans. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. The word "Mrs. Neus Munté", adviser to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.34.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, counselor, I must begin by saying that I cannot disagree more with the wording of this inquiry, which speaks of a supposed inaction by the Government of the Generality. And I will try, with great pleasure, to respond to all your considerations, to all those that you can at this time, to place where you see action, the Government of the Generality sees it not only action, but interest, effort, compromise and, above all, priority at the time of giving response to the social needs of the citizens of Catalonia. You see inaction before a government that you have presented, assumed and is developing a social welfare plan, which with the assumptions already presented in this chamber, you will be able to complete in all its totality. You see inaction there where there is a government that has presented a plan with 750 concrete measures, based on three major axes, two of which have to do with the welfare of people, with social justice, with work and with the economy serving these people. You tell a government that has faced, in these not yet five months, a monographic debate on social emergence and economic recovery, from which there is a resolution. You, as with the rest of the parliamentary forces, participated actively, with the formulation of proposals and with the approval of these; to a government that has already constituted a follow-up commission for giving accounts to parliamentary groups, social, trade union and professional entities of the degree of implementation of these measures. You tell him inaction at the presentation of seven bills of law. A moment ago, you said that they had no social content; I would like to remind you, for I am sure you do not remember, that one of these seven pre-projects is about universal access to healthcare. And another is the pre-project of assumptions, the most social law in any legislature; a law, a pre-project of presupposition law, honourable Member, which increases social spending by 874_million, assumes the totality, as it cannot otherwise be, of the plan of action of this government and of the set of resolutions approved in the monogrammatic debate on social emergence. In the words of the fact that the Government of the Generality maintains contact with the group of social entities, trade unions, employers and professionals, which offers the will of dialogue absolutely to everyone. You must seem inaction that President Puigdemont is moved to Madrid and is meeting with the President in office, Mariano Rajoy, and handed him a document of forty-six complaints specifically linked to social rights or incomplements of the State towards Catalonia. It must also seem to him that, immediately after knowing the challenge and suspension of certain articles of the Law against the energy poor and the denunciations, the president of Catalonia convened a summit with the assembly of political formations – his also attended – social organizations, impulses of the ILP finally challenged, mayors and mayors of the main populations, in order to seek a solution from the citizenry. You must seem inaction that all this has been done in just five months, and you tell me... that you have begun your intervention calling for the irresponsibility of the People's Party government to have no government, but you have contributed absolutely to it. In fact, I think we should be responsible for the combination of political formations in the state sphere of being in front of a new election with pests, the expense that this causes to the citizenry and the monumental ridicul that has taken place before all of Europe. Surely it is that you and I share different languages, because where you see inaction... I, by the way, listened to it at length from all your inquiry, Mr. Carrizosa, which you are not doing to me. In any case, let me remind you that at the length of these two minutes that, I insist, I listened to you carefully, I did not know how to see the slightest reference to all those issues so related to the social rights of Catalans and Catalans that are object of understatement, which are object of appeal and suspension on the part of the Government of the State. And this makes me think of the manifestation of this past day under the name ‘Rights are not suspended, that a number of entities and the combination of political formations of this Parliament – not the People's Party and not its political formation, that were not there, that were not there – precisely defended the rights of people, the social rights of Catalans and Catalans, that are constantly seen at risk and at stake before the challenges and suspensions by the Government of the State. I am surprised that, in the two minutes of this first part of your inquiry, you have not devoted the slightest reference to speaking..., you have done so of the supposed inaction of the Government of the Generality, but not of this continuous and systemic action of the Government of the State before the social rights of Catalans and Catalans. You said: "There has been no presentation of any social law projects. I remind you – and a moment ago the Councillor Comín was here – that preliminary draft of the law on access to sanitation on the part of the city council as a universal right that it is. And I remind you of the presentation of the pre-project of the presupposition law. And I want to mention it – and I want to mention it – Mr Carrizosa, because we are necessarily talking about assumptions that have a very high social dimension. You know that there has been an increase of more than 1,000_million for which the expenditure of the departments is made and 78.5_percent of this expenditure is intended precisely for this, for the social policies that you say we forget before the social emergence, before which you say that we are absolutely inactive. The plan of xoc xifrat in 285_millions that it had previously considered; a social inversion that bore the xifra of 73,6_per_cent of the conjunction of this presupposition presented before the Parliament of Catalonia; a xifra that, despite the limitations and extreme presuppositional difficulties, exceeds the social destination of the presupposition of the previous year, which, at the time, was already superior to that of the year 2014. You, before that, have presented a statement to the whole of these assumptions of high social content. We are accused of inaction, when you are the ones who do not have the predisposition or the intention, for which it seems, to leave so much alone that these assumptions can be debated and, of course, can be discussed and improved in their parliamentary process. I don't want to be left alone with what we can do with the approval of these assumptions, but it will allow me to, even though I don't have time – and I will continue afterwards – explain what we are doing, what we are doing, and what we are doing, and which contrasts enormously, when I begin to detail these questions, with its accusation of total and absolute inaction. You have placed different themes. I start, in any case, for example, on the subject of teaching. So, look, we've updated the criteria for obtaining groceries, raised the poverty risk shields, and this will mean, by the coming course, by September, an increase in the number of aids that cover 50_percent of the cost of the groceries and the number of aids that will cover 100_percent; hundred_percent scholarships that were started in the previous legislature for the first time and that are not only maintained, but will increase this year. Also the measures addressed to vulnerable families for the summer months; these are not in operation because the estuary has not arrived, but are planned, prepared, to be set up in order to be put on the market; taking advantage of food surpluses; agility of the payment of the minimum income of insertion, from a point of view of processing... It is obvious that the increment necessary to be able to convert to a universal right is pending from the approval of assumptions, but it is already a reality the better of the presupposition of the minimum income of insertion and the agility of the formalities and, therefore, of the actual payment to persons who are in benefit. In the area of housing, priority is given to the use of public housing for logging, the adaptation of the rules of the months of emergence, the empowerment of the role of third-sector entities, the management of these habitats or the reinforcement of the lines of help to the payment of logging; questions that are already a reality, that are action, not inaction, is not a proposal, is not a measure of the future, but are current. April 19th: a package of measures was adopted to fight the poor energy and energy; the table of emergence in the field of housing has already been created by the agreement of the Government, which is the fusion of the two existing tables so far in the field of denunciations and in the field of the poor energy; there is an urgent new aid for continuity in order to deal precisely with the payment of the usual housing. You talked about dependency. Oh, my God! I don't know about it, but that's about a little bit of it. Have a little memory and go over the numbers. The government has already accredited more than a thousand new seats to accommodate users with linked economic benefits. It was only an hour ago that Constellera Bassa explained it, and pending approval of the 2016 assumptions, there is a pile of nine places with public finance, both for what it does to residents, to home care, as to the same related economic benefits. Measures and improvement of the tariff mark in public transport, in the mark of the T-Mobility project; in teaching, the reduction of rates in children's and primary education centres in disadvantaged environments and the prioritization of investment in centres of other complexity with additional teaching destination. Yes, you have presented an initiative in the matter of free text books, I also had occasion to listen to it yesterday, by the mouth of your chairman of the parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.35.0	Counselor, I know it's hard, but it's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.36.0	I'll talk to you in the second part. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.37.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.38.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, to the reproach that you have not presented a single social content law, you answer me that the budgets are the social law and then also tells me a universal health project, that you have not presented and that it is not one of the parliamentary initiatives in the records of this Parliament. Comment on your partner, the Lord Counselor Comín, to see if he is already going to do it or not to do it. For the time being, it has not done so, and that is why I have told you that you have not tabled a single bill of a social nature. You have said many things here that you say you do, but bills, you haven't done them – you haven't done them. You say that ‘you are developing the social emergence plan, but you can hardly be developing it when you were endowed with..., or it appears that in your commitment it amounted to 270_million and you subordinate them to the budget, a budget that is hardly going to be approved, which for the moment is not going to be approved. You also refer..., this bill of universal health what has indeed motivated it is contacts, press conferences, postureo, but initiative – initiative –, no. Then you say that..., as if it had been a government action, alludes to the demonstration in protest at the rulings of the Constitutional Court that had called, among other entities, Ómnium Cultural or the National Assembly of Catalonia, and reproaches us that we have not been there. Well, it is that we are presenting in Parliament legislative proposals to alleviate precisely the effects of these rulings of the Constitutional Court; we do do things here that are not going to be challenged before the Constitutional Court and that solve the problems of Catalans. We are not going to waver and present ourselves to demonstrations as a solution, that such a solution can be very legitimate for associations, for entities, for collectives, but that the Government is going to manifest instead of doing the duties, that for me is not a precise example of government action, it is an example of something else. Finally, you refer me to figures in the budgets to show that they are very social budgets, but the fact is that those budgets have increased by 70_per_cent the external action items and by 3.8 the health items. As for energy poverty, you provide 20_millions of what would be worth 45_millions, paying 30,000 Catalans for supplies for a year. I mean, it's obviously a really small figure. So what I would say to you is that it is very legitimate for your Government to have an independent project. It's not so legitimate that to get to that project you skip the laws, that's not so legitimate anymore. It is not so legitimate that you, with that independence project, are covering up your inaction. We, what I say to you, that from Citizens, as you are ruling, is that it is no longer a question of you and we having a different project and that we are by union with Spain and with Europe and you are not, and you are by separation, that we would be faced, too, with this government work that you are carrying out. Because when a government doesn't govern and put forward other things, and its first concern is to keep afloat, and that occupies it day by day, neglecting the needs of Catalans, it's why we would be making a firm opposition against you, even if the independence project wasn't on the table, because you're ruling badly, you're not ruling. The excuse today is independence, but if there were any other, if you had to be evaluated for the quality of the government you are carrying out, you would be suspended; you are doing it wrong – you are doing it wrong. Our opposition is based on something profound, on a truly great dissension, which is about the model of state; in that we have a deep disagreement. But even if there was not this deep disagreement, we would be forced to denounce this inaction that you suffer and to demand that you once and for all rule in favour of the Catalans, who are plunged into a very serious social crisis. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.39.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, there's the word "counsel."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.40.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, we have now reached the end of the road. It is not a matter of talking about social emergence, it is not a matter of talking about the government's inaction, the problem is the full sovereignist route – which certainly has the support of the absolute majority of this chamber, seventy-two Members – and the problem is the Department of Foreign Affairs and its premise. So, I'm sure this is the best way to reflect the concerns of the city council, and that's what you expect from the main opposition party. Miri, I'll tell you again. On social laws, you say: "Absolute inaction because you do not legislate in social matters. I suppose you know that, fortunately, this country has a long tradition, already, of self-government, and fortunately, also, a whole set of standard brands in social matters for a small detail: it is that we have competitions, our status recognizes us. So what it would be, let's say, dramatic is that we haven't legislated in the matter of social services – we have a very good law – in the matter of childhood and adolescence – we have a very good law – in the matter of housing and in many others. I repeat this: the most social law in any legislature and for any government is the law of assumptions, and the preliminary project that has been presented is a good pre-project, which gives response to these social needs. But don't be all under the circumstances, don't misunderstand what I said. I have talked about a social shock plan that can be developed in its entirety from the presuppositional approval, but that we are already developing in good part, and I have not given examples. The last part... you didn't listen to me, I told you before, dearly, it's a note that you didn't listen to me, because the second part of my first intervention was precisely to put in place many measures, and I did a respite from the realm of social services and attention to dependence, from the struggle against poor energy and denunciation; I talked about sanitation, I couldn't finish talking about education, but I did put in place the criteria for lower scholarships that would allow the proper course to go into operation, so more scholarships at 50 as well as at 100_per_cent. I do not rely on the approval of assumptions a part of the social security plan, which, I insist, is already in operation, because as the government we compromised that this would be so. For what it does to the universal access to sanitation project, it will be approved in the Executive Board in the next weeks, as it was previously mentioned. And I don't do a toilet, whether you were there or not in a demonstration, I'd just miss it. He only noted that there were almost all of us who defended the social rights of Catalans and Catalans, before what you had completely and absolutely obvious, also in the second part of his intervention, and it is that there is an absolutely active Spanish government – not inactive, acting – at the time of challenging, at the time of suspending the instruments with which the Government of the Generality and other administrations, such as the case of the joints, to fight against this social emergence that you say so much and so much worries him. What I refer to is precisely this – and I recognise this –, that you did not make the slightest reference to it when you spoke of the Law of Dependence, when you spoke precisely of the denunciations or the energy poverty; that you – which you have been perfectly aware of – do not consider, do not sit here, as representing the main party of the opposition in Catalonia, that we are fighting against an absolutely recent model, against an absolutely unjust financing system, which is partly responsible for the difficulties this Government has. But before these difficulties we have hands and hands. There is no inaction, Mr. Member, there is action, there is compromise, there is effort, there is priority of the social parties on a presuppositional basis and we hope to have good assumptions that allow us to get much further. The toilet – the « reproach, which you said – goes in this line, not in any other. You can present the proposals of the law you want, you can say that you have to advance in the matter of free text books, but to be fair recognize, know and say that two years ago the Government of the State left these parties to zero. And you also need to know that, despite the enormous presuppositional difficulties, the Government of the Generality gives these aid to the high-complexity centres. I do. And that, bearing in mind that there has been this disappearance of social parties that affect in a very remarkable way the scope of social services and care to depend on more than 86_per_cent in later years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.41.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Some applause.]] [[Interview with the Government on the VISC+ project]] [[300-00062/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the VISC+ project presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. To expose it has the word Ms. Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.42.0	Man... [[Pause.]] It's so high. [[Rialles.]] Thank you, President. Good morning. Counselor, I will be clear and open to you from the right principles: the intention of this inquiry is not only that we can know the opinion of Councillor Comín – we know that of Councillor Boi Ruiz –, that of the Councillor Comín and of his department on the VISC+ project, but that the main intention of this inquiry is that we will make a further motion in which we pretend that this Parliament has sufficient majorities – and we are sure that this will be – to put a definitive end to the VISC+ project and pass it to the end of the story. Why do we have to go to the calaix de la história? Because the VISC+ project comes from where it stands, with the intentions it arises, and to do what it wants to do. Maybe I can remember that. As of April 2013, PricewaterhouseCoopers produced a report containing 10 hot topics of Spanish health in which it clearly highlighted the commercial value of using data from the health system, the willingness to negotiate with data from the health system. Two_months later– only two_months later– the Government of the Government of Catalonia, at June 2013, approved to launch the VISC+ project with a government agreement, and to advise them, to do so they would contract, precisely, PricewaterhouseCoopers. And as of July 2013, or just a few days later, they were starting a process of competition from new companies, which were the ones that had just designed all the details of this VISC+ project, and were the new companies interested in managing this project, because the project was born with the will to be managed outsourced, and with the will that this outsourcing was awarded at the end of 2014. There was, therefore, a year of absolute opacity in the management of this project from the approval of that government order, to initiate it, until at the end of a year some of us began to give ideas, leads, to Members of this Parliament at that time, what they were trying to do. This caused us to ask the Leader of the Government – at that time responsible for the Aquas, Dr. Argimon – in one of his appearances in Parliament. This caused Dr. Argimon to offer to make a round of contacts with parliamentary groups to explain the contents and the reality and details of the VISC+ project. At the end of the day, in a short time, they appeared in the café with the latest, in the newspaper El País, articles, information that was unearthed to society, to the public light that there was behind the VISC+ project and all the opacity that had existed in the management of this project. And then there was an inquiry and a motion, at that time of the Parliamentary Group Initiative for Catalonia Greens - United Left and Alternative, which I did myself in late 2014, in which we got what at that time it was possible to achieve, that it was that you took the bidding of the project while you did not make a participatory, open day of debate about what we wanted to be a project of health data use. Well, before all this controversy arose, before this impasse that Parliament said to the Government: « Do it, of the VISC+ project ; before much critical reports from the Catalan Data Protection Authority, the Observatory of Bioethics and Dret of the University of Barcelona ; before the decisive, important action that has been maintained in time, of the White Sea of Catalonia that has collected thousands of signatures against the VISC+ project, finally, at the beginning of the year, the Government, still with Councillor Boi Ruiz, has replanted it at two stages. A first phase, which is the one that is on the march, only for search, from public search centers, but a second phase that has remained in the call, at the ream, and that, therefore, while we do not say the opposite continues to feel alive, the VISC+ project – the VISC+ project as Mr. Boi Ruiz thought –; VISC+ project as defined by Mr. Argimon, as a project for marketing – marketing – "the use of data and benefiting the economic and industrial fabric – for the textual purposes of Mr. Argimon – and to do so with the minimum public investment and private management bet; project that it was country strategic, strategic for the public health system and that it was managed with zero transparency, including society and interest, for that matter and for that matter. Project and concrete example – more than many, but not less important – where the Government of Convergence and Union tried to market everything that was juiced in Catalonia's health care system; one more project, one more example of how it was trying to negotiate with salvation. This is the VISC+ project, and while we don't say the opposite, it's still alive and active, so we want to leave it in the frame of the story. That is why, obviously, it has nothing to do with the model that we would defend from a model of using the data of the public health system for research and why we believe that it does not have anything to see with what most of this Parliament surely thinks in this 11th legislature, and why we believe that it does not have anything to see, surely, with what the current Councillor of Health, the Lord Comin, thinks. Therefore, first question, Mr Comín, what do you think of the VISC+ project, as is the VISC+ project and as was defined by the VISC+ project? And how do you think you approach the strategic challenge and project of managing big health data? We explain to him clearly what we want. We want you to take good advantage of the opportunity to reuse data from the health care system. We want a limited use only for medical research and evaluation purposes of the same health system to improve the quality of healthcare and the same system. We want the holder of these data to recognize that it is the citizenry, the 7_million people who use the Catalan health system and, therefore, that the beneficiaries of the use of these data can only be the citizenry. We want the system to improve the security problems that already exist in the use of data from the same health system, and we want it to be done with public management, with strict public control, with zero mercantilization, no sales, no purchases, no outsourcing, no related business. With this premise before we want it, we also want to put into this question that we need to make an important social debate, of substance and transparency on a system of use of the big health data. Why? So, because he's working on a lot of ethical fund debates, a project of this kind. For example, what can these data be used for? We consider that the data, vaguely speaking, the data of the public health system, are for the assistance of users of the public health system, for epidemiological studies or public health studies. Therefore, to use them for other types of research with economic benefits is to pervert it; to use it for other types of research in the benefits of citizenship is it eligible for society? What's the point? What kind of research? Fette this way? This is a debate that society needs to do; and it is a debate that we believe we need to allow society to do. We are a mature society, that of Catalonia, which allows us to make these types of debates. We may debate what we consider public benefits, what type of research, what type of teams, for what purposes. Then I'll make proposals to him in this sense. There's another debate, perhaps more technical, but it's still ethical, which is the anonymity of the data. There is no 100_per_cent anonymization of the data, and perhaps there will never be. A social debate on what degree of anonymity or non-anonymization we accept, what degree of risk we accept in the use of our data, data as sensitive as those of the health system. And let us bear in mind that in this type of debate the worst are the most vulnerable, those of strange or very specific maladies. Therefore, we also need to be able to open this debate: it is legally possible when data is anonymous to use them for search without the user's permission, but what is ethically acceptable? Can we discuss this, counselor? Well, ask, so, a few, which I raised. Our model, I think, is clear what it is; model – I also think it is clear – is absolutely incompatible with what the VISC+ project is; model that bets for the big data, for public research, but not for a project like VISC+, which we would like, from this inquiry, and obviously above all of the motion, that after I can give more details than we could lay from Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, it is located in the calaix of history. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.43.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.44.0	Thank you, very honorable President. Mrs. Ribas, I see that the calaix of history is being filled for moments, let's just say, right? Let's start with the questions you asked me at the entrance. "The VISC+ project, as conceived in the previous legislature, is alive. No, he's not alive. Because, beyond the statements that I made in your parliamentary office – I did not ask you, not your parliamentary group's question – there have been concrete actions. For example, there have also been meetings held by the director of the Aquas – I think he has already seen all the parliamentary groups – which are concrete legally binding acts. One of them: the resolution that was adopted in the plenary of the poor – which we voted together, of course, my parliamentary group and that of you – clearly determine which are the principles, the limits, the conditions of the programme, the big data project in search of salvation. Here is a parliamentary resolution that we voted on together, that in this sense already anticipates all the detail work that can be done in the motion that will be presented as a motion following this inquiry, and that I, as you know, celebrate. But that resolution, which we've already done together, already guides a little bit of the way – and I think it's just the only file I've left me in, and I wanted to bring it here so I could read it textually, but it doesn't matter, because it's published in the Sessional Diary. But there's another thing more relevant, which is that on April 28, 2016, the Aquas Board of Directors, which had to be renewed because there was a change of government, and so there was a change in the board of directors, there was a change in the direction of the Aquas, there was a renewal of the board of directors..., and once the Aquas Board of Directors was renewed, one of the first things that he did in his first meeting, I think, the Aquas Board of Directors, was cancelled. Therefore, it is in the minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of 28 April, the cancellation of the competitive dialog to which you refer. Therefore, that VISC+ no longer exists, because that VISC+ only had, at those times, a concrete basis, which was a competitive dialog to invite a series of entrepreneurs to help determine the conditions of a contest that was to be the contest through which it is requested..., the management mechanism of the data cessation is contracted to a company. And this competition dialog has been canceled. Why? Because one of the commitments already made in her parliament is that managing the big data management project for health research will be a project in which management will not be outsourced. And this compromise has already been made, and it has already been voted on and approved. The management will not externize, it will be a management that will be done from the same Aquas. For this reason, the competition dialog was cancelled. Another thing from the department's team is also clear: in the measure that the principles, conditions, the governance mechanism – now I will extend – of the big data health research program are substantially changing, the brand, the name, has also expired. Therefore, there is none in the Health Department at these times, nor in the Aquas, that I speak of VISC+. What are we talking about? – and so I'm starting now what I wanted to be a little bit of a reflection – of a program, a project – we need to see which one will still be the concrete configuration, from the point of view of administration, we're working on this – that allows the use of data from our health system so that the search for advanced health, because that's what we all want. That is what all the parliamentary groups in this chamber want, and that is what the Catalan society wants in its conjunction: we want medicine to heal more. And, at these times, the management of information with the new technologies, in the logic of which it is known as big data, effectively allows us to move forward in a fairly important way in research projects. That is to say, the potential that big data brings to health research is very great – very great, very great – and there is no country of the world, and Catalonia, either, that wants to give up that potential. What are we talking about? We're talking, if we think about it, about patient-to-patient solidarity. We are talking that I give up, freely and voluntarily, because there is the eighth out – so, always the citizens have the last word about the possibility of their data being used for research or not – but one day they take up this inexcusable right of the citizens, because for something there is an eight-out mechanism, to give up or not the data of their clinical history, what we are talking about is that the citizens give up their clinical history so that their clinical history serves to cure better in the future to other citizens. We're talking about patient-to-patient solidarity; that's what we're talking about. We're talking about the fact that the company gives away the information that it owns so that the company improves on its health outcomes. This is the object, this has to be the object, this should have always been the object, and this has never ceased to be the object of a big data program, of a big data project in search for salvation. And that's what we need to set up and, more importantly, urgently, because this research breakthrough and this medical breakthrough we need to try to accelerate as much as possible: patient-to-patient solidarity. I sometimes, to clarify, say: "This is not so far from the organ donation – it is not so far from the organ donation – as the citizen attitude. From here, this new project must have a series of principles. Now I'll have time to detail it a few and then, on the second side, if in any case, I'll just detail the rest. You mentioned some of them, and I'll mention them even more. There must be, first, a guiding principle of the new project, which is the suitability of the solicitor. I mean, here we are talking about the fact that they can only access data... which says the resolution that we approved together. And what about the resolution we approved together? That there can only be access to search centers of public title or without any work – that's what the resolution says – accredited as search centers. We're talking about this. Because there are large centers of research in our country that are legally private foundations without any respect. Sometimes they have the participation of Salut's advisor in their employers, but this does not turn them into public search centers. But these research centers agreed jointly not to leave them out of the benefit of a project of this kind. Second – you spoke of it – what kind of research? This must not only be part of the participatory day that is about to be celebrated and to which I will refer at the end of this intervention, but it must be part of the governance of the system in a stable way; therefore, there must be ethics committees for clinical investigation – it also speaks of this resolution that we have approved – that those who assess, endorse research projects and those who agree on research projects must have access and which are not, and which are priorities and which are not so much so, that they make use of data from our health system. Third principle: proportionality control. The minimum of anonymity data needed to complete the purpose of a search must be accessed. The concept is not: "I pass data and I'll see, then, what I need to serve. It is: "I pass the essential minimum data because you can do the search. Fourth principle: the right of citizens to expel's. Eight-out methods. Five principles: anonymization process. If in any case – I don't have time now – I will refer to the second part in detail, because it is one of the issues that has generated the most debate because it is the most complex from the technical point of view, and, therefore, it is normal to create a special concern, and in this, obviously, it has to be done with many guarantees and with great security. Then I'll explain a little which way to get it. Six principles: transparency, which means governance. That is to say, here we need some governance and vigilance bodies, some internal and other external bodies, which ensure that all that is done is done in accordance with all these principles that we have previously detailed and knowledge of citizenship, because if we are talking about a program that needs to be used to improve the progress of science, we have nothing to love. There must be the bodies that guarantee this transparency, and this means that there must be an internal governance committee, but this also means that there must be an external adviser where there must be agreed upon which international experts – from the medical point of view, from the point of view of the research, from the point of view of confidentiality, etc. – must be the permanent vigilance of this project. There is a compromise of the Parliament, of the previous legislature, in relation to the celebration of a participative day, in which a series of actors must participate – now not in detail... – social agents, associations, research centres, researchers, scientific societies, universities, colleges, bioethics experts, data security experts, political parties, communication media, etc. – which must serve to strengthen the consensus, which must be used to open all this debate and which we do not want to convene, from within the department, without necessarily having made the round of dialogue with parliamentary groups, which, at the end of the day, are the final ones, Madam President, who have approved the resolution of this day. Once the round of contact with parliamentary groups has been completed, we can already put a date on it. When will the day be celebrated? Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.45.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.46.0	The day will be celebrated at the length of the second half of June. And, if so, after the details some more question in relation to this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.47.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.48.0	Thank you, President. Well, counselor, I'm glad we're going in line with things, at least in the words. Now, in the end, he's already set a date. But what I'm going to say to him is, "Yes, very well; but we're a little full of motions that aren't complete afterwards. I will not talk about health transportation, how slow we are in certain things and how we doubt that in the end many of the motions that come into this chamber are actually going to end and that we are enough – enough – used to the fact that after that it is not complete. So this Member's will is that we get out of here with political translations after the words, right? When? What? With what resources? And I add another element: presumption. Because today we still don't have any kind of economic memory that it costs to make a real project, from the public system, from the management of the big health data. It wasn't with the VISC+ project in the hands of Mr. Boi Ruiz and we're still out of it now, given what it costs. And yes, we want it to be done from the public system, and so we want to be responsible and know what that costs. And we want to know it at the time of discussing a premise like what we have right now in this chamber to debate. Because it will be necessary to be able to hold the specialized professionals, which are not any profiles, to be able to do it, and because it will also be necessary to have the technical or technological elements necessary to be able to do it. There are elements of these that are already from the Public Administration, but there are some that are not. The only xifra that was put in place, at a certain time, in the last legislature had been 25_million; but clearly, with that project in which he was basically betting because the dough put in, above all, the private sector, and, obviously, also remains the benefits. At the Regne Unit, they're going to spend 300, millions, with a project that in the end they're not going to get out. So, what are we talking about? What's the assumption? And what presupposition did you put, Mr Comín, in your proposal for a presupposition of the department in order to be able to end it? So it looks like we're aligned that we want to do it from the public system. And don't tell us there's no resources – don't tell us there's no resources – because you yourself, on one occasion, and the Low Counselor on another occasion, have reconfirmed to us that there are 2,000_million euros that you will stop collecting from the mutuals at cost, that you will have to cover them for the occupational diseases and that the health system is covering. So don't tell us there's no resources; don't tell us you can't do it and we don't have any structures to do it because they were already in the health care system. That's from a band. On the other hand, counselor, we have little tebies, with a central element in this project. Obviously, we all want to move forward in search; obviously, we are talking about a system that is based on solidarity between patients and patients. If we speak in these terms, in many things we will agree. But we are not in a neutral land, we are in a land of voracious capitalism that seeks out our elements of making negotiations. We are in a land where today it was published in a Catalan newspaper as Catalonia we are European leaders, precisely, in big data management companies. We're in a land where there's a lot of eyes and urps coming in and making this very important part of the big data paste. And that can't be the case, people: we have to make it clear that there won't be any kind of entry to data marketing, that data will be used not only to do search projects only from the Search Centers, but also that they will be only for utilities that interest the public health system. And all that... for example, all the research that is done using the data of the public search system will have to publish its results. It is the best way that no one coming from this capitalism would want to keep interest on these data, to bet interest on using these data. Because the doors behind you to enter the search center, we can imagine them, and I'm sure you'll have a lot more, of imagination, this voracious capitalism, to invent them. Therefore, we have many more measures, already, from the outset, because it is not interesting for this capitalism to come and take these facts and why we are still, if it can be, the first country..., not the first country to consider how to manage the big health data, but we are still the first country to do it well and to think about its people, thinking about its health system, thinking...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.49.0	Congresswoman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.50.0	... in the real data owners, which are the system's 7_million users.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.51.0	Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]] I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.52.0	Thank you, Madam President. My honourable Member, I think it's a matter of... well, if you can put all the emphasis on it, let's just say it, but I'm referring to what you gave to your first intervention: facts. Then we can accompany them with all the speeches, and I share it, huh? But: guarantees, fets, tranquil. And the competitive dialog is a fact, it's canceled; it's an organ that's called a board of directors, a public agency, and that's where he decided to cancel the competitive dialog. That's what's done. The celebration of the days will be done at the end of June, at the beginning of July, which will be more at the end of June than at the beginning of July, and therefore the date will be known to you with all imminent realization. Fetches. And here you're going to have it? All that you foresee the resolution that was approved in its moment in the Parliament of Catalonia, in the previous legislature seems to me to have been, where is said: "There must be this one and that one, and that one and that one, and that other one. What's he gonna talk about there? Of everything you say. More facts: governance system. Indeed, the system of governance must guarantee..., the purpose of the search serves to improve the salvation of the people. That's it. Now I also say to you: "You know that there is a part of the impact of the search on the health system of democratic countries in which the participation of the private sector is inexcusable when the search is to be translated into a drug, because the manufacture of medicines in our health system does not correspond..., or does not correspond..., the drugs, which are already used directly by patients, do not correspond..., or, to most countries, like at least..., I believe that to all countries now that I am trying, of memory..., that I come to the head, do not correspond to public enterprises, but that most of the manufacture of medicines correspond to private enterprises, effectively always the search in safety – always the search in safety – at some point in the private chain. Indeed, research is published and, at some point, this basic research is then concrete in clinical research, and then this clinical research is translated into innovation, and this innovation has been translated into production, and production is done, in a good part of our drug and pharmaceutical manufacturing system, by means of private companies. But this is an obvious thing that we don't remember here, let's just say, right? Because they already know it works that way. But this does not mean that the actors of the research that must be able to make use of a project of big data, must be, as we said before, I said: adequacy of the solicitor, public centers or without desire for work; this is already approved in parliamentary resolution. Two, Ethical Evaluation Committee on the Purpose of Research Projects, huh? So, a very sensitive – very sensitive – issue, which is that of data confidentiality; we have to guarantee anonymity, and it is true that the 100_per_cent anonymity does not exist, but here we have to be able to assess the balance between the risk of identification and the benefits of research, right? Therefore, "anonymizing we know what it means; it means combining data alternation techniques that prevent indirect identification; it means obviously eliminating the person's direct identification data; it means reducing to the minimum the detail of the other data and other variables that may end up being an identification font; it means anonymizing the data of the healthcare professionals who have attended the patient. That would be the most technical, most basic part of anonymity. Does the new project have to guarantee all these criteria? You have to guarantee them, of course, that you have to guarantee them. Two, complementary security mechanisms of anonymization processes. There must be a figure in this project that follows the data protection delegate, which is to be permanently – and this will be part of the governance system, we believe that it must be part of the governance system – working for the management of data security risks, that it is structural, systemic, and how it is systemic there must be permanent vigilance; there must be periodic external audits in relation to data management; there must be a ban on the growth of data with external sources; there must be marks to ensure traceability – all and be anonymous – in those cases where there has been a flight or an incident that requires after the analysis of what has happened, and so much has happened. After that there must be security requirements, the highest available at the programme level, robust encryption algorithms, advanced anti-piracy systems, all of that. The technical risks, therefore, and the ethical risks must be the object of two things: they must be the object of public debate opened on a day that does not have to be the end of the debate, and they must be the object of mechanisms that, by means of the governance of this project, are always aging to minimize these risks of ethical type and these risks of technical type. I think we're moving in the direction we need the 7_million citizens of our country...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.53.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.54.0	... that they actually want medical progress by means of research. And I think we'll all get together that this could be a reality. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.55.0	Thank you very much. [[Asking the Government about the Mediterranean Corridor]] [[300-00065/11]] He asked the Government about the Mediterranean Corridor, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si. To expose it, has the word Mr. Germà Bel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.56.0	Good morning, Counselor. Good morning, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. There are people who believe that countries have wealth, and they regret that they have leading business sectors. There are people who believe that countries believe that they are rich and not proud, that they have leaders in the business sectors, whenever they do not rely on government contracts through regulated concessions, etc. – that's why it's friendly capitalism. And that's important, because at the end of the day, that's what sets it off, the nation's fonction. When the empires have become reindeer, they have fallen. This is how Rome fell to the fifth century after Christ, when he exhausted the natural resources of the conquered territories under the Roman rule and did not innovate in anything else, in law or in institutions, and fell. Thus the Spanish empire fell, which was the next most important Western empire; when they had natural resources in the form of precious materials to the Americans they excavated them in imperial battles, they excavated them, to the cities of the Crown of Castella, and needed to continue excavating other types of territories, and fell. And so he fell the English empire of the past century, and so he lost his hegemony. When you have wealth, you have the curse of natural resources, you have the curse of income, you forget that the countries don't have wealth, the countries think you have wealth. And to create wealth governments can do three things, to help create wealth. The first, and some part of the Catalan society we are on board in this project, is to try to build an institutional framework that weakens the traditional games of friends, power-business relations, and that fosters a camp where the different people, the different economic actors of the society, can start and innovate, presided over by the idea that is allowed everything that is not prohibited, instead of the classical idea in these contras that all that is not allowed is prohibited. Governments must promote the formation of human capital, it is basic, not only in terms of equal opportunities and social cohesion – concern first – but in terms of productivity and economic growth. And thirdly, governments need to promote the creation of physical and technological capital, because there are many market failures that cause that, if not, the endowment would be insufficient. And here's the theme we're on about the Mediterranean Corridor; the Mediterranean Corridor, in this case, sees a wealth of infrastructures that can promote productivity, that allows us to trade better– already know that some trade understands it as a question of comparative advantages, not as a question of dominance and exploitation. Therefore, we want to trade more; we want more real wages and more occupation. But, of course, to speak of the Mediterranean Corridor one, sometimes, does not know very well what to say, because we have already spoken of Anníbal, that he created with the pots of elephants pushing towards the Alps; we have already spoken of the novels, which were the Germans of the time who entered for the Pyrenees, they did the Via Augusta, certifying the Mediterranean Corridor, and they were like the Germans of the air, quality control; we have spoken of the day of Sant Jordi of 1720, in which it is the radial rule, it is created the radial Spain. And I thought yesterday, hearing the debate: "What else can we say? Dic: "Ostra! , because now it turns out that the theme of the Mediterranean Corridor is not done, because it has not proposed Spain, only that it has remained as an internal thing from here, an endogenous thing, of our internal discussion. I think there was a lack of progress in the discussion. To me was the nostalgia of hours and hours spent on various ministries and in a legislative chamber a little bigger than this, speaking of the Mediterranean Corridor, but said: "Well, you mustn't miss the advents either. For example, if we take the assumption of this year of the Ministry of Development, we see that they say..., it has advanced a lot, it is politically correct inverted, the Ministry of Development : « Corridor Mediterranean : 1,343_million euros. Hey, it's a briefcase, huh? ; not everything you need, but a pasta. But, of course, that's what the maps have. When one goes to the most important performances he says: "Ostres! , of course... – is that the map is here [[the timer the show]] – clearly the three most important singular acts are Algeciras-Antequera, of goods that follow towards Madrid. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, of goods, yes... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Over here, mate, don't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.57.0	Please – please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.58.0	Nonsense...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.59.0	Please, respect the word tower.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.60.0	...forgive it, Antequera-Bobadilla, Antequera-Granada de passatgers, who followed to Madrid; Granada-Almeria, neither is nor is expected, and probably in high speed, nor lacks it. Well, "probably not, surely. I Almeria-Murcia. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah. Almería-Murcia? Ep, this is already playing more Mediterranean and we need a new map [[the timer the show]] Because it's bigger. Clar, we have Almeria-Múrcia, Múrcia-Alacant, Castelló-València, which is the most important part of the game, which says: « Barcelona-Tarragona-Castellón-Valencia-Alicante-Murcia. But, of course, they have a small peculiarity: all this goes to Madrid, because, to begin with, València and Alacant are not united, and then, from Castelló to Tarragona, they are not united in international scope, nor are they expecting. Clearly, this actually corresponds to an old disposition of Spanish politics. There was, the year 1850, when the Law of Railways, General Laureano Sanz, was made, to the commission of Olozaga, who did, donated the material, already said this – that there are going to be many generals –: "The lines that I consider priorities for the prosperity of the country are those that put in communication the capital of the monarchy with the ocean and the Mediterranean; that is, those that can bring us as much as is necessary to the center of the monarchy. Taking the perimeter of the peninsula as a circle, whose center we can suppose in Madrid, all the iron paths that we project, for the quick, must be perpendicular from the center of the circumference, leaving for better times or for our children the construction of parallels to the circumference, because with the first ones – the radials – "and some more hours of transit can be supplied greatly. And it's true. And he said, if you go for the radishes, with a few more hours, you can do it. But it's that reality goes beyond fiction, because [[the orador shows a map to the chamber]] Do you see that? , to go from Barcelona to Alacant..., from Barcelona to Alacant can go from two ways: direct – this is for the sea, because it is the airline, eh? , but in reality the train went within –; for the train, which does four hours fifty-six minutes – minimum time –, tomorrow, or you can go for the clubs: from Barcelona to Madrid in two thirty hours and from Madrid to Alacant in two zero-eight hours; not in a few minutes, in a few minutes, correcting General Sanz, you can go to Alacant for Madrid. This is why they will understand that we are valued for the motion to urge the Government of the Generality to urge the Government of Spain to urge the Royal Spanish Academy of the Language to change the motorcycle « Corridor Mediterrani per « Corridor » Madrid. [[Give me the applause.]] Counselor, you, in this, have a bad piece on TV. Oh, by the way, I've taken advantage of the fact that yesterday we heard about the highways and as I am of the district of Tarragona, the Jewish region, I say the day..., the year 2020, passes what, to the Vendrell and to Tarragona will pay toll, eh? that the concession was over to Salou. I mean, the C-32, in parallel, will still pay toll. And we'll talk to the answer, counselor, because it's very interesting that the best is paid... if you're still paying to pay for radials. But this, in the best case, we have a little bit later. I tell you that you have a bad piece on TV because these things that last so many seconds are consubstantial to the idea of making Spain a country like France, which therefore needs a capital like Madrid, because it is a state that builds a nation; it is a state that builds a nation and needs a capital city, which is still. You have also expressed the idea of wanting to push again..., following President Pasqual Maragall's fart, who has already tried the first half of the last decade to push the Euroregion, one of the key elements of which was the development of infrastructure from East Andalusia to Lió, have decided to push for joint action in the matter of Corredor Mediterrani. What is the government's diagnostics on matter and what are the orientations offered to Catalans and residents of the rest of the regions of the region? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.61.0	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.62.0	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, Mr. Bel... very useful maps, eh? [[Counselor laughs.]] What luxury to be questioned for you... what luxury to be questioned for Germà Bel in relation to this subject, because he went directly to the basis of the question, went directly to the pinyol of the subject. And in two minutes he explained in an exceptional, extraordinary way, what centralism means. Centralism is exactly that. In fact, many of us who are followers of the work of the Member of Parliament Bel, we have as our book the one that you published now a couple of years ago: Madrid, capital Paris. That's exactly what we're talking about. Say in a way perhaps less, let's say, simpler than Congressman Bel proposed. if someone doesn't know what centralism means, that puts in practice the exercise of the triangle. That's exactly what it is. Let them take, if they can, a train and vagina of Barcelona Madrid, with high speed; let them go from Madrid to València – not that I wander to Alacant, to València – with high speed and that they experience in relation to Euromed, and you will know exactly what centralism means. The other day he was at a radio interview and asked: "Home, how can it be...? And we explained, from the government, let's say, the foolishness of the most profitable corridor from a point of view of goods, from a point of view, also from a point of view, from the transport of passengers; it is to say, the one that captures the most demand at the level of transport of passengers, today still is the corridor València - Barcelona. The problem is that it is operated by a system, let's say, that it is absolutely deficient, that it is Euromed, especially on the tram between Barcelona and Tarragona. "How can the Spanish State, in fact, not be able to prioritize this? This is what the Court of Auditors of the European Union said. The Court of Auditors, in a severe, harsh report, made a stretch of ears to the Spanish State and the French State with some data that are very strong, very tight, and put them in value by President Puigdemont the day we created the Strategic Table of the Mediterranean Corridor. Mirin, the year 2009, for the tunnel of Pertús, for which it is the basis of the connection between the Spanish State and the French State in international scope, it was necessary to pass 9,000 trains every year. The year 2019, according to the forecasts of the same European Commission, according to the definition of strategic railway axes, should pass, through this tunnel, 19,000 trains a year. At these times, today, only 900 pass, which means between 3 and 4 trains every day, 3 and 4 freight trains every day. That's the problem, but the question, the key question, is: why? That's to say, how can... what is the answer to which a state, supposedly advanced, supposedly sophisticated, does a whole exercise of investments that go against interest, not territory, not Catalonia or the Valencian country, Murcia or Almería or the Islands, or the Aragó, but that goes against the conjunction? Centralism. This conception of, through the infrastructures, to pretend to build a concept of birth. That's the problem and that's the background problem. This is the foundation. And, therefore, I thank you, Mr Bel, that you wanted to put it in those terms. We're talking about this, exactly this: the infrastructures to serve an ideological concept of a pretence. That's exactly what we're talking about around the Mediterranean Corridor. But, further on, at these times we are going to the operativity, and that is why we wanted to push forward the Strategic Table of the Mediterranean Corridor, in which we disregarded these elements. Therefore, we are going to look for the lowest common denominator among all parliamentary groups. I would like to thank, on behalf of the Government, the interventions that were made by all the spokespersons of the parliamentary groups in this respect. I mean, listen, let's go look for what can turn into a wealth creation and a better welfare state. The Mediterranean Corridor, to a very good extent, is this, it's work places and better than the welfare state, it's essentially that. Let's get it together, let's get it folded. And now we have the possibility to do so in other territories, both from the Spanish State and from the French State. Because there are interlocutors who are keen to build a joint strategy and you placed it very well, with the concept that President Maragall put forward at his time, from the Euroregion. We, in the south of the French State and the rest of the Spanish State, have some interlocutors who are willing to play and play for money. With the words: "Let's forget about the ideological bias and go to operation. This is the scheme and this is the common ground that we would like to share with you. What is it that we should be able to plant and what is it that we have on the table, from the government, and that we would like to be able to share, in the mark of this Strategic Table of the Mediterranean Corridor? Seven elements, seven lines of work. The first is to determine a certain calendar, an agenda of possible investments: the agenda of the corridor. We need calendars that are credible, because at these times, all the terms that have been placed on the table, have been absolutely fulminated. They think that the connection, the vertebral column with international scope, directly in world wide or mixed lives, through that on the day "the third thread, should have been operated or should have been operated in the year 2015 throughout the territory of the Principality of Catalonia". And today the warmest is the water. And now we have, let's say, on the one-way tram – it's the tram between the Children's Hospital and the Dry Village – making a double way – a double way – at these times, in large Iberian. It's unaudited – it's unaudited. The other day the Secretary of State for Infrastructure came and said to us: "You do not understand, that you do not see, that if we do this we will collapse the system? We don't collapse at all, because the system is already collapsing. Why, fix it, huh? , delays to lines R15 and R16, which go south, are delays that reach 70_per_cent. Let's say it backwards, 30_per_cent punctuality; this is simply unaudited. We need a calendar – certainly –, an investment agenda, the agenda of the corridor, credible calendars of the performances, some of which have been auctioned for many years, but we have not just seen 'in the end. It must, above all, be a credible agenda. Second: we need a technical lead. And that is why we have placed on the table the figure of the coordinator or coordinator of the Mediterranean Corridor, which is the figure of an engineer or an engineer who has the ability, from the consent of the various territories, to be able to act on the ground. This was done at Pla Barcelona, which allowed us to build the new terminal of Barcelona airport, the figure of engineer Francisco Gutiérrez. This is a good piece of work, because it has the ability to, let's say, set an agenda in terms that are credible. Third: directing investments to real demand and service. Over infrastructure there are the services to be provided and the benefits that companies will get in terms of competitiveness. It is not just about making the infrastructure, but knowing which services will pass through this infrastructure. I mean, where do we want to rent these trains? Where do we want to send them? What is it that can best serve businesses in the territory? This is a basic scheme. Fourth: to take advantage of the Juncker Pla of the European Union, encouraging public-private partnership. They think that in the Principality of Catalonia there is around 150_million euros with possibilities to be invested already by companies, by private companies, that they are stuck because there is no Mediterranean Corridor. The most eloquent case is the case of BASF, in the Port of Tarragona, is to say, we could invest 15_million euros and we don't – and we don't – because there is no runner, at these times, operating. Five: generate strategic alliances with territories, companies, institutions, to develop, for example, the railway motorway terminal. It is a modern and advanced concept, i.e. basically putting the trucks on the trains in order to connect them to the rest of Europe. Sisè: manage and execute action agendas in infrastructures from the proximity. Infrastructures and development of transport, logistics and digitalization services, which means entering a 2.0 concept. And, after all, do what the European Union sends us the funds for. And that's what's causing perplexity. It should be noted that those who act on behalf of the European Union are not only the Commission, it is not the Council, but it is the Court of Auditors, let's say, of the European Union, this is the foundation. And then the question is: of course, it is unheard that someone comes to us and comes to us from Madrid, those who have been fighting until the last second, until the last moment, to make the central corridor, which is simply unheard of, and they come to say that the Mediterranean Corridor is not tomorrow. They're right, the Mediterranean Corridor isn't tomorrow, the Mediterranean Corridor was already here, and it's an imperative need that this country has, its people, and its opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.63.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Next, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.64.0	Thank you very much. Counselor, it is a pleasure to be able to discuss how to create wealth, from time to time, because if there is no creation of wealth, it is materially impossible to make distribution policies. This is what the countries of central and northern Europe know, and one finds that here, sometimes, the equation has not just been well established. But let's go back to the matter, the first thing I have to say to you..., now I haven't brought back the third map, which I wanted to take advantage of, because one of your core is already from the Ebre, the Lands of the Ebre, and yet I'm not from Tortosa, even though I was born to Jesus, barrels, barrels, bars..., but I wanted to tell him that I also had the minimum train schedule tomorrow to go to Tortosa, that it's an hour and fifty-one, just one, huh? But, of course, taking into account that at the very least we have already entered twenty minutes of delay offices... – in fact, there we are already calculating the most twenty minutes of time – so, look, I got out..., you've got the roller out well, but the time was going, it's more time than going from Madrid to Alacant. The wonders of geography, complex. "They've got a bad piece on TV, I told them before, and now I'm going to make some operational proposal, which I'm sure in the group we'd be willing to keep working on. The first one, they have already told them that as a coordinator« ná de na. You'll have to talk to the partners, and I'm sure they'll find a good coordinator, keep up with the engineers, keep up with the architects, keep up with the city planner, keep up with the economist, or keep up with what's going on, while following a good professional, probably the corporation or the college that you're indifferent to, because to coordinate..., it's not a technical skill. Second, highway lines. They must integrate among the reflections, I believe, of the table, the finalization of the concessions of the South AP-7 in 2019 and of the North AP-7 in 2021. Why? The concessions will not be renewed, not because no one is willing not to renew them, to extend them..., it is illegal! It is illegal to extend concessions, which have changed many European laws. What we don't know is whether or not they're going to reschedule. I'm telling you to take this into account at your own Spanish office, if after this election there's already government. The economists prefer not to predict the future, which we always mistake. By 2020, the 2021 will not have expired, but the move that has been made towards Spanish policy is: if it is not resolved otherwise, to create a painful bank of motorways with the radials of Madrid plus the lantines, lantines radials; to contract public enterprise debt in a way that is financially out of deficit and to sweeten the tolls from 2020 and 2022 of the South and North AP-7 to finance this. And it wouldn't be the first time that we went to history, because Seville-Cadis was rescued, the eighty years, widening the tolls, the duration of the concession of Aumar, from Alacant to the Hospitallet. And no one here asked, and we pay the users. And the AP-2 was rescued by expanding Salou's grant - the Jonquera; we also paid the users. It wouldn't be the first time, counselor, it might not have been the last. And the ministry's statements are confusing enough, and the trajectory is what it is, as it were, with its venture partners – which I hope is successful – at some kind of intervention in this, because it is very important that we follow all morals or all Christians, because we seem to have different prices in the same economic unit distorts competition. And, effectively, when the concessions are over, the highways will be dampened. A council: from the government – and it is particular, I say this on a proper name, this if I may the parliamentary group, not on behalf of the parliamentary group –, if it is planned to continue with tolls – that is what we will discuss – any proposal to continue with tolls to Catalonia with private companies is destined to fail. The word weighs too much, two tolls can be a good idea, I think that yes, of maintenance, not of depreciation, is dead financially; but the public debate in Catalonia I think it has the toll it has and it is something that surely in the future we will have to discuss and that will come. Keep in mind that the two-thousand..., a few years ago the central government transferred to the outlaws of Biscay and Guipúscoa the highways there, which certainly those who hold on to Madrid could suggest. I'm done. It's a conceptual question: port-rail connections. When they discussed the law of the nineteenth century they said that they did not need transversal lines because they could go from port to port, and they never noticed that the contents, well, at that time, the barrels, for the propi peu peu do not hinder, do not reach the port; they had to arrive in something, they were not self-transported. That's why the ports were to be endowed to the Earth's network. We're still on the same page, on this we have a conceptual problem, and they hear what they feel they're going to have to do a lot of work. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.65.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.66.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, yesterday we only had two minutes and a half for..., or I held two minutes and a half, on behalf of the Government, to answer the question of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party regarding tolls. If they remember, I would tell them that this news or this statement from the Minister of Interior, that it is also a curiosity that the Minister of Interior, a PP candidate for his own elections, who announced that these tolls will be rescued, eh? , with the concept. You see the Popular Party spokesman in Madrid, and, let's face it, that corrects it and increases it. That's what I said. Can I be positive? Yeah. Is it credible? No, no, Because there are so many other elements, and so many other substantive elements, and you've explained it very well, and you've placed it very well. Because the Mediterranean Corridor, and here it is an affirmation that always makes the Secretary of Mobility and Infrastructures of the Government, the Ricard Font, that I want to thank him for his presence here today, the Mediterranean Corridor is not only the railway structure, it is all that is around the Mediterranean Corridor; I mean, the Mediterranean Corridor is also the AP-7; the Mediterranean Corridor is the A-7; it is the 340; it is the National II, which should be able to double in certain trams to be competitive. This is it; this is the Mediterranean Corridor. Mediterranean Corridor are the ports and airports, Mediterranean Corridor is the synchro, Mediterranean Corridor is the clusters, Mediterranean Corridor is the A-27, Mediterranean Corridor is the universities. Mediterranean Corridor is all that, is what happens in the country taking advantage of opportunities. This is the basic element, this is the lifting element. And with regard to the highways, so, exactly what happens is this, which is an announcement, but it doesn't explain what the small letter is. And you've raised some scenes that can condition us and can severely condition us, but there are other themes, that are works that have made concessionary enterprises, 1,300_million of a motxilla, which is controversial and needs to see how it's managed. Yesterday she said: "While the South AP-7 toll will be released, here the C-32 will continue to have tolls in the Garraf tunnels. Well, the problem is that we have certain 340 trams that are simply unviable trams to absorb the mobility there is at these times. Or that they wander to national II, to Girona, to the connection with the border with the French State. There is no capacity to absorb the traffic generated by industrial polygons. This is a basic element. But you were explaining it. Why don't the numbers come out? Why? The European Union explains that the numbers do not come up because there is no rail connection with the ports – this is the theme of the funds –, that, in fact, let's say, a very important part of the demand is generated precisely in the ports of Tarragona and in the port of Barcelona, and if there is not a railway connection that solves with international width it is impossible that trains can pass through the tunnel of Pertús. I count, what ara Florentino Pérez attacks again – with the concept, eh? –; after the Beaver, therefore, now says: "With that they do not pass enough trains, compensation. No, no, listen, we're still solvents here, huh? ; here what we have to do is finish the job, which means the rail connection in the ports, and do it in a serious way, and do it in a solvent way. Flanders makes the great deployment from an economic point of view and from a point of view of social justice, progress, when it puts in full value its logistic capacity around the port of Antwerp. This is what we can do in very good measure, with a difference: that behind Tarragona and behind Barcelona there are some areas with a capacity and with a top industrial power, which we have all the part of Lleida's demarcation with a potential, from an agro-food point of view, of the first magnitude. That's the potential and the potential we have. Therefore, it would be worth it if the same thing that we do today with rollers, which is that we will most likely approve a motion that will place well what is the work plan for the future..., also in the very Ple, from the following motion, we can also establish a powerful, unanimous agreement of this Parliament that went in this line of hearing that this is a great tool to generate prosperity. He spoke of ‘coordinator', ‘coordinator', ‘engineer' or ‘engineer' in broad sense. I point out that you say a technique; let's use it with this expression that can come from various academic processes, but we have to move to this land. Here the clau element when we die this of the « coordinator, « coordinator, the minister, with an element of generating confidence, says: « They do not suffer; the coordinator is me. So, man, given the experience, the concept's suffering, the concept's suffering takes all its size and all its magnitude. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.67.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the challenges of the future of teaching]] [[300-00064/11]] He asked the Government about the challenges of the future of the teaching, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. To expose her, has the word Mr. Josep Maria Forné.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.68.0	Good morning, President. Counsel, advisors, deputies and deputies, the previous inquiry appeals to create wealth, and one of the good ways to invest this wealth that is created is in education. And the proposal or inquiry that is being made to the councilwoman at this time is about the great lines that she has somehow thought of from the government to donate, say, investment in this wealth creation in the field of education. There are two looks: there is the look of the forest, possible, from the top, the global look; or the look of between, looking at the concrete trees, and each of them are complementary and essential, because the look of between, therefore, allows us to detail. Now it came from a technical meeting, and it seems to me that it is essential that these meetings be held. For example, how to better impact on replacement coverage; it's not the same resolution, the technical solution that we have. And that look is important, but it is also important that more general, more global, look that can be given. Do it in his parliamentary office, I think it's a lot to highlight, because do it in his parliamentary office many times, particularly, I find it missing. That is to say, we are very much in the detail, in the anecdote, and in the change not in this time, and especially at this time when we are setting up a similar state, a capacity to legislate sovereignly and, therefore, to guide the action of our policies. Sometimes it is also counterposed not only the forest and the tree, but also the urgent and important. And many times the day to day is eaten; the urgency of the day to day is eaten the important. And what they ask her and what they ask the council at this time is important. And to highlight this importance of agafo education two preamble quotes from the LEC. I think it's a law we have to frame in the context we have, but it has an ambition and an important support. And, if I may, two quotes from the LEC that highlight the importance of education. He says: "Education is a right of all people. The exercise of this right must be guaranteed throughout life and take into account all aspects of personal and professional development. Education is a fundamental reality of the whole community; it is the main factor in the generation of human capital – before we talk about capital, wealth; now we talk about human capital – ‘and social capital, and it is an element of social and cultural cohesion. Education is the door to personal achievement and to collective progress; it is the lever that makes it possible to overcome personal, social, economic and cultural constraints. One of the highest functions of democratic public power is, therefore, effectively guaranteeing the right to education for everyone. These are the words that are approved in this chamber and add to these others: "The Catalan society aspires to provide the best education to the new generations and, further on, to continue to give educational opportunities to everyone throughout their life. This aspiration is in keeping with the collective will to make Catalonia a country that is ready, well-being and cohesive, wherever it is seen, can bring its vital project to fruition. So, well, highlighting the importance of education, plus more compromise in this chamber, with a horizon of a similar state, with a horizon of sovereign regulation, with a horizon of turning Catalonia into a presperous, well-being and cohesive country, where everyone who sees it can freely carry out its vital project, asks the council about this future, these master lines of the future, that somehow they have to direct our education. That's right, taking into account the accumulated experience, because this experience can't be spoiled, and taking into account the challenges that the president poses to us, times that many times come limited by an economy that has limited resources, that are not possible. To mark some of these lines of the future, I did learn some texts or references. For example, the objectives of the European Union itself for the year 2020 – came, came – on school success; the one that considers the European Union, such as, for example, the treatment of school drop-out, the reduction of the population that is under the fringes of success; the one that does the business or the concerns that may be in collections or movements like School 21, that have a certain event in our community and in our country, marking a lot of education based on projects, marking a lot of education based on skills, skills that do not forget the contents, that believe that they are two compatible things and that they are not exclusive, and that much you have highlighted in some of the writings and in some of the last places that they do not understand, but that they are so important that they do. Or future challenges that we have closest to our civilization, our times, as can be the digitization of our lives, and that I think we have an important challenge in a digitization that is not to become a colonization of our lives, because if it is converted into a colonization we will end up feeling purely digits, and that is not humanizing. Or, for example, complementary models in education that go beyond model four by one, which is that of a teacher, an assignment, a classroom and a group; there are other ways of teaching that are compatible and that, for example, we can incorporate them and we need to incorporate them. Or one of the important challenges that we have, as in the future, as it is of permanent formation. We remain that the education marked only for a certain moment of our lives is an education that has not just satisfied and has not just allowed that objective that each student can freely carry out his or her vital project. Or, for example, one of the main themes, such as inclusive school. Functional diversity has to be incorporated into the teaching, in the normalized teaching, and to treat people from this perspective, I repeat, and I repeat it several times because it seems to me that it is important to be able to carry out the vital project freely, and the vital project has sometimes linked to the conditions that we have. And this has to pass us through an inclusive school. I know that there are important efforts to make this inclusiveness in the education system, as in the past, and we also need to add that somehow. It is this general look, which I would ask the councillor, that you put a look at us that you allow us a horitzo, that I do not forget the technical work, the concrete work, the work that is now to be done, of the minute, of the detail and small, because this is important, because the numbers have to be squared, the management of the centers has to be squared, many things have to be squared. But it's also true that it has to be with a hedgehog; it's "if you give me a why, easily and I'll find a how, right? So, a little, mark this because. All this, logically, does not have to be carried, nor does it have to be done exclusively by the Education Department; it would be a very impoverished debate and it would be a debate that would have a short flight; it is a debate that must be opened. Also, ask him, in some way, how to involve the whole educational community, all the citizenship that you are interested in participating in this debate, of a vision of the future in which our education allows a horizon of fullness, a horizon that allows us to draw a Catalonia as the country ahead, benevolent and cohesive, and where everyone who sees it can carry out its vital project freely. Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.69.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.70.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, I thank you for half the trees from within the forest and from outside because, really, what we have to do is, I mean, manage the day to day, but also the challenges of the future. In fact, our obligation and responsibility is to take care of the present, but also to worry about the future, and to worry about the future means that the present also has to look at it with a different look and see what it is that our young people, our infants will need tomorrow. The responsibility of the Administration, you also said, is to ensure that the education system helps to compensate for the inequalities of our students, that it encloses all students and that we provide a bigger, more real and more effective opportunity. Catalonia, as you have said, has always looked to Europe and sought references of excellence in the different proposals it makes. We have the Delors Report, learning it to learn, learning it to be, learning it to live, etc., and now we have the new proposal of rethinking education. In fact, the European Union does what it does: it calls on all governments to create standard brands that respond to these changes that need education. And we sincerely believe that this Parliament has two instruments, the two educational laws – the Education Law and the Vocational Training and Qualification Law – that integrate many of the better elements that these international organizations propose to us. Catalonia has gone so far as to improve its education system and to improve its educational results and reduce the fees for children, as you said. Equal opportunities are not guaranteed only with more resources, but also, above all, to devote more resources to those that are most needed, for those to whom the education system is an important trunk for their future growth. And in this we have marked our goals, because, apart from saying it, we have to mark our goals and see how we do it. The year 2020 has the objective of reducing the percentage of students whose level of competence is located in the lower band, increasing compulsory education graduates and reducing school drop-out or increasing the number of students who continue after their compulsory studies. Currently, the year 2016, we can already say that some of these objectives that we had set ourselves either by 2018 or by 2019 are already sunk. Another clearer example is the abandonment fee. Catalonia had a difficult country problem, which is that we were in more than 30_percent drop-out for our students in good times. At present, the data from the last quarter already tell us that we are under the 18_per_cent, so we have almost reduced to half. We're on our way, that's right, but it's important to see that we started this way, because less abandonment means more opportunities. If our young people continue to prepare, it means they will be more prepared and have more opportunities for the future. Another element – you also said – is the reduction of lower skill levels. In catalá and castle we are already under the 15_percent of students who do not subsole basic skills – remembering that some years ago we had a 30_percent of students who do not subsole these skills. We're in a 15, and in mathematics we have to work – we're at 17,6 – to get there. Pupils in the lower strip; when we talk about this, what are we talking about? That fewer students in this strip means more equity, means more cohesion. We also have indicators that respect the ESO's weaknesses, those that graduate in ESO. In 2018 the goal was that an 85_per_cent is graduated. At this point, we already have a 87,8_per_cent of the students who graduate, so we are well aware that if this graduate doesn't have him they won't go forward. Therefore, it is important to work on these fringes in order to give good opportunities. If we enter the forest, which we were asked to do, for this course the Government wants to establish a strategic, pedagogical and economic priority in those centres of maximum complexity, aware that it is here that we play more equal opportunities. But how did we do it? So, the first measure knows that the ratio has been reduced in those centres of maximum complexity so that they can pay more attention to these students. We have kept the hourly expansion at the most complex centers because we are aware that they are students who need more support, either from the class group or in a customised support. For this course there are 405 centers that have this hourly expansion, and also a superior teaching staff at these centers in relation to the rest. Therefore, these centres have fewer students, more faculty and more hours of personal support. And that's a bet for the public education system, because we're the headlines, and, above all, it's a bet for those centers that need the most. The resources, I said, are also scarce, but it is certain that we have to focus them, we have to prioritize them where they are most needed. For this very course we have proposed to increase the staffing in public centres, but above all to increase where is most needed. And that we have to explain, this is the proposal we have made on our assumptions and I am very sure that we will share all that we are here today. But not only in terms of staffing, but also to improve the substitution processes, starting precisely for these centres with the most difficulties, or to increase specific resources in ESO students who have the most need, and we are talking about shared school units, CEUs, or we are talking about secondary support. Let's talk about more teacher training. It's true, we have to give a training match to our teachers, we can't make this transformation if we don't have the resources to train our teachers. Also more investment in operating expenses in our centers and, as you said, an inclusive education bet, a bet that we want to pass from inclusive school to the inclusive system, because all students have needs, some more than others, but we all have, and what we want is that all have learnings that are alive and that are meaningful in our centers. Now, anyway, we're going to look at the trees from the top, we're going to look at the forest from the top, because we're talking about resources, but we're also talking about modeling. One of the department's stakes – they know that because we have talked about it several times in this Parliament – is competitive learning. We want our students to be able to learn from the acquisition of knowledge and also from their interiorization, able to hear the world and to hear it itself, to bring forward a personal and life project, and also to contribute with a society that we want to work for the common good. The management of knowledge in the 21st century is indispensable, I said, technologies have changed our reality a lot, and managing knowledge already means having, not just knowledge, but criteria, skills, and skills to select the information that is important and to build new knowledge from the knowledge they already have. And we are aware that educational practices must respond to these needs, and that is why we also talk about permanent teacher training. The educational fact, what we do to our schools, in this situation acquires some dimensions that require the definition of different models that guide these processes of teaching and learning with a perspective, above all, he said, of long-term education. Today we never finished studying, we never finished learning, we always have to. We have taken into account all European referents, who set as an objective the priorities to change educational systems and improve learning outcomes in knowledge, skills and skills appropriate to this new social and economic scene, and also to achieve more equity and quality for everyone. To our country this bet for the transformation of the education system, as we have said, has already begun to walk: a curriculum design has been incorporated to originate these interdisciplinary synergists – what we say –, not to work a student, a subject, a teacher, but to work it interdisciplinaryly and to interact what is knowledge with reality. A development of people, but it also requires thinking about a more humanistic view of education. A path that's not new. Catalonia many years ago that has walked in pedagogical transformation, we have great references in Eladi Homs, the Commonwealth of Catalonia, the Institute-School, the Alexander Galí, Pere Vergés, the Artur Martorell, Rosa Sensat, and we are rethinking and advancing in this model that allows each student to develop the maximum of his or her abilities and sunny all the learning that he or she needs in order to form himself or herself in a long life and that holds all the knowledge that allows him or her to be a cultured person, a free person, a responsible person. And that's why we have to trust our centers, we have to trust the work they do, we have to trust their autonomy. We must give them support and accompany them and guarantee, too, that the social function of the school is complete. So, I mean, we have to evaluate them, too. We want to focus, too, on innovation as an instrument for the development of our students. An innovation that cannot be an ailing phenomenon, that cannot be an individual phenomenon, that cannot be an elitist phenomenon, an innovation that must be by the conjunction of the system and counting the whole educational community. It's not just the centers, it's the centers, the families, its surroundings. Tell him that this is the way forward, this is the way forward where our centers are advancing, and I think that I only need to be present in many of the initiatives that our centers are doing, and that we have the pleasure of accompanying them to see, to prove that our system is actually moving forward here. Thank you, Congressman, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.71.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The deputy has the word... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] [[Asking the Government about the promotion of entrepreneurship]] [[300-00063/11]] He asked the Government about the promotion of entrepreneurship, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si. To expose her, has the word Mr. Joan Ramon Casals.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.72.0	All right. Members, Members, President, Councillor Baiget, we are here today to talk about entrepreneurs, and we are very clear that the support for small and medium-sized enterprises and the impulse of enterprise are fundamental axes in the best of the economy, and we have already talked about large infrastructures that will help us to get the country ahead, but now we will also talk about those businesses and entrepreneurs that will make us move forward. Catalonia is an industrial country and, in this sense, the industrial policies that are fan of its department are key and must also value our companies that are overcoming the crisis betting on opening up the world and innovation. From our group, Juntes per el Si, we are clear that one of the most effective social policies is to create occupation. And the best policy to create employment is to help businesses and entrepreneurs. It is to say, to promote opportunities and the culture of effort. Job opportunities and opportunities and facilities to create businesses are to maintain and improve the welfare state, which once gave the Germà Bel, which is to create wealth to generate redistribution. In this sense, and focusing this inquiry on entrepreneurship, it means that Catalonia is a country of long-standing entrepreneurial tradition and that entrepreneurship is not a fact strictly outside the economic sphere, but that it is cross-cutting to our entire society and generates many benefits, and these days we can also see a clear example with the Bizbarcelona, which also makes this inquiry relevant. Entrepreneurship is part of what we are and of our identity as a country and is part of our way of being and our way of doing things. Catalonia is whether or not she's going to be entrepreneurial. Face-to-face – and I say this, face-to-face – of currents and thoughts that they want to make believe that the economy will already come all planned or designed, or that it will be possible to do everything from the public sphere, or even from those who are more obsessed with pushing taxes. We believe that what the government and the country must be obsessed with is to increase the number of businesses that can pay taxes to guarantee this welfare state. And that the government's priorities must be to help create businesses that can create jobs. Because the people who go to ask for help from mayors like me, they don't come to ask that we solve everything, but what they come to ask are opportunities to develop for themselves. People and we want more and better businesses and more jobs better paid for. And today it's also true that we need to look at the data that has been reduced from the point of view. Well, it should be noted that 95_percent of Catalan businesses are micro-entrepreneurs and that local workers and entrepreneurs represent 49_percent of the Catalan business fabric. Self-employed people and entrepreneurs are workers and entrepreneurs and, even if they are important, are key to this economic generation, they are still one of the most disadvantaged groups for the various existing regulations, already at the fiscal, social protection, etc. level. This leaves many self-employed and entrepreneurs in a very weak position and it is clear that much remains to make very clear and unfair examples of how they have a 40_per_cent lower pension than those in the general rule. It would be good to move forward with proposals such as, for example, because entrepreneurs and self-employed people who do not reach the minimum interprofessional wage do not have to pay the share of self-employed people or proposals of these characteristics. And there are also regulations that apply depending on the size of the same companies, because dealing with different situations differently is also equal in opportunities. Well, that's all that makes it very clear that they respect entrepreneurs and they have a status that's about to improve and regulations that are better suited to their realities and needs. We know that the Government of Catalonia has already launched in 2012 a specific programme for the enterprise, the programme « Catalunya emprên, with the objective that Catalonia is converted into the leading region at European level in the policy of creation of enterprises. Here I ask you the first question, which is: how did it go and how does the programme ‘Catalunya emprên? Here I can advance it, as the experience I have with the mayor of Molins de Rei, is that the very good work is synergy policies with the local world. We ourselves, more or less, help twenty-five entrepreneurs annually, economically, and who have a 75_per_cent survival index, and many of them at these times are already generating work places. Therefore, the objectives we give to the principle are complete. And this helps, for example, that my village, my city, is the city of Lower Llobrega with the lowest index of the city. Therefore, these types of policies produce results. Well, the entrepreneurial character is based on values such as work, effort, overtaking ability, taking risks, teamwork, values and long-term bets; values that we understand we need to place beyond what would strictly be purely economic or industrial vision, and we understand that it has to be addressed in all areas, but especially in education. And here I also ask him a question in the sense that it is necessary to increase the programs to promote entrepreneurship in the educational field, because the ones that are really good results. Here I would also like to add that, with the new organization of the Government, now Company, Universities and Research are under their department, and this I think can be a good opportunity to further improve synergies to promote entrepreneurship in the university sphere. We know that work has already been done on this line, but we would like to say that we can explain how they are going and above all who are the new lines that are working to generate these ecosystems to promote entrepreneurship both in the university and in the research field. And also at this point, and linking with universities, research, ICT, the Bizbarcelona, we are very clear that, from the entrepreneurial point of view, start-ups are the entrepreneurs of the most advanced sectors, that they are precisely those who are at these higher moments, and I would also like to know how much they value the context of our country, the context of Catalonia, to boost start-ups and what plans the Government has to be able to empower them. In any case, it is clear that entrepreneurship policies are the fundamental axes for boosting an economy and maintaining the welfare state in the 21st century. As I said before, entrepreneurship is part of Catalonia's identity. For this reason, and for this concern, we call on the government to continue and increase policies in support and promotion of entrepreneurship. And at this point we would like to ask you various questions, which are: how does it value the situation of entrepreneurship at these times in our country? How has entrepreneurship increased in the last few days and what major changes has it suffered? How does it work with other departments to promote entrepreneurship in the sense that we speak before it's cross-cutting and it doesn't just have to focus from a point of view? How many companies have been helped by the various support programmes that the Catalonian Government has in entrepreneurship? What do they value, too, programs that give an excellent result of supporting entrepreneurs and that also help to maintain businesses that already exist, such as Reenterprise, and that are having, I repeat, excellent results to help the two bands of companies, those that start and those that started but need a generational change? – and that I can also say, say, that there are many agreements being made through Reenterprise and generating work places also here. And, last but not least, who are the main lines of support that his department has planned and, therefore, the Government of the Generality, for supporting entrepreneurship in our country in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.73.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.74.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member, thank you for your inquiry. And the first thing I have to say to you is that your inquiry is timely and, as you have said, and you have already made reference to it, because yesterday we opened with the Lower Council and the Mayor of Barcelona the Bizbarcelona Hall, which is the reference hall dedicated to enterprise, to autonomous work, to start-ups, also to franchises and, in general, to all that is related to projects that are undertaken; a hall that has increased by 30_percent its accreditations and in which participants are from all ages, from those young people who have completed the race or have completed their professional training, and have a project and a desire to put in place all their accreditations and in which participants are from all ages, from those young people who have completed their career and/or completed their professional training, to those who have completed their career and/or completed their training, to the extent that they have completed their work, and to the extent that they have completed a major project, and to the extent that they have completed their work. And here, and answering some of the questions that you asked me in a timely manner because yesterday, the data from the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor report, better known as the GEM, was published, which is an international report in which it is an evolution of the follow-up of the entrepreneurial rate of the countries..., indicate to us, the data and the results corresponding to 2015, that the intention to undertake Catalonia continues to feel higher than the rest of the state, is in some states with European media, if we are still under the most developed and innovative countries in Europe. There is also a differential aspect to other years that I would not say the quality but the origin of entrepreneurship: every time there are more entrepreneurial projects that arise for the opportunity, it is to say, we have an idea, we believe that we have a possibility and we want to pull this project forward, more than not, let us say, those that come for the need, the derivatives of an economic crisis that makes you go to the ground and you want to start or start a project of entrepreneurship or self-occupation. It also improves the quality, because every time the rate of failures and tanks went down and it was reduced. Therefore, this means that projects are no longer just ideas but that each time they are aiming and have more ability to find, not just the idea, but the financing, the business plan and bring the business to practice. And, in addition, there is also an increase in the creation of innovation-based entrepreneurs, technology and business models for us, so far as we are concerned, and what you have said, start-ups. And these are the results that we must hope for in the need to take steps in favour of entrepreneurship, and in a particularly prestigious – prestigious – way of entrepreneurship between society. I agree with you in the desire of a working Catalonia; in fact, Catalonia has traditionally been, and I already said, a working society, not just an industrial sector, but an economy, but a society. And we have been doing so in a voluminous or forced way, because we have not had a lot of natural resources on which to base much of our economy, nor have we had some powerful and proper institutions and administrations, and above all our own, that have helped us to create large industrial conglomerates, as has happened in other countries. So, it was a society of ideas and a society of projects, which is what made us move forward like the country. And what we've done in the past, we also need to face the future. Therefore, work, effort, taking risks, thinking about the long term are factors linked to entrepreneurship and they are factors that we will also have to have as society, because, sadly, and we have quite recent examples of what has happened to us, when we have forgotten these factors and we have gone through some other areas, so the results have not been positive people. And of enterprise, I would speak in plural, because we have many, of entrepreneurship, there is not only one: there is entrepreneurship linked to self-occupation, there is entrepreneurship linked to start-ups, but there is also entrepreneurship linked to science and research, which is what sees spin-offs, cultural, social entrepreneurship or the same corporate enterprise. In any case, and focusing on some of the questions that you have asked us, tell him that, effectively, the Government of Catalonia is making a programme of support for entrepreneurship, based on « Catalonia enterprise, which is a cross-cutting programme, with an integral view of all the Government's activities in all areas: the field of culture, agriculture, the Department of Labour and also the Department of Education, and it is from the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge that they coordinate, assume and manage these programmes. Obviously, as in the department, we are pushing entrepreneurial actions in many different areas in which we are working. I'll put some of it out; for example, the Emprên Network. From the Xarxa Emprên to form part one hundred_divided entities with four hundred support techniques, and the year 2015 was attended by more than thirty_ thousand people and helped to create 3,600 enterprises; this with resources of 4,6_million euros. It's like in the next few weeks, days, huh? We'll get the convocation to go back to doing the Emprên Xarxa. A second program linked in this case to the university and research is the program of the "Knowledge Industry", which is directed to the creation of spin-offs and entrepreneurs and viable business projects from the areas of universities and public research centres. In five years it is expected that more than 30 million euros will be spent. Another program that we are working on, in this case from Action, is the "Start-up Catalonia" program. There are six accelerators spread across the territory and 131 approved mentors who are helping to create companies and projects entrepreneurs in the technological field. This year has supported 204 businesses across the entire program; 80, the year 2015. Other activities that can be highlighted, therefore, put in contact..., the Administration, the Action puts in contact private investors with people or institutions that want hard to term entrepreneurial programs. In fact, the year passed thanks to ask..., 683 projects were contacted, more than 4,500 investors were presented and formalized and 82 projects were closed for a total investment of nearly 18_million euros, and this is a project that was done. More scopes: one line..., and it's already from another department, it's also from the Department of Labour, the "Consolidate't" program line, which is a support program for autonomous work, which was awarded seven aids for an import of more than 1_million euros and which gave support to the best enterprise of more than 630 self-employed workers. Or the programme, the "Empren" line, of financing for self-employed entrepreneurs or for self-employed entrepreneurs and for trades, a call that is still open and in effect until September 30, 2016, and to which a total of 21_million euros is allocated. For what he does to start-ups..., and one of the other things we'll do about it, we know, by different reports, that Catalonia has more than two thousand start-ups; two thousand start-ups are configuring our country as a real ecosystem of entrepreneurs, especially in the areas of telecommunications, in the areas of mobility and in the areas of the internet. We want to keep them censored, we want to make a map of these two thousand start-ups in Catalonia to keep them filed, to be able to help them and to promote them. And you're referring to the Reenterprise project, which is collaborating in an important way with Czechoslovakia, and it's true. Thanks to this project in the next four years 682 successful operations have taken place [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , with an unprovoked reversal of 34_million that has made – that has made – 4,385 us entrepreneurs have near the replete...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.75.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.76.0	Yeah, yeah. - No, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.77.0	I know it's hard, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.78.0	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.79.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.80.0	All right. So, there was a chance to continue a business that was planned and that was started. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.81.0	Thank you very much. Congressman, are you going to use your replica turn? [[Pause.]] Thank you. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into health policy]] [[302-00045/11]] The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on health policy presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mr. Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.82.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. I have the honour and great pleasure to greet the illustrious President of the Official College of Odontólegs and Stomatólegs of Catalonia, Professor Antoni Gómez Jiménez, and all the team that accompanies him. Your help and that of your team has been commendable. They know that today we are debating health again because it is a fundamental pillar for our party, because it is a priority for the Catalans. And again I will set up the debate in which we consider the two indissoluble health nuclei, which are patients and professionals. In fact, to get to the point, I will say that today we will talk about the world of dentistry, and so, we have raised a motion that gives answer to many health aspects that we do not have well guaranteed in Catalonia. I remember when we alerted here about the large number of no-till-to-mouth elderly, I remember well some of your looks. I will explain very sensitive and very worrying health data to you. The basis of the motion is clear: a better one of the dental health of Catalans, and for this reason it is structured in three large blocks, all three necessary to guarantee better the needs of Catalan citizens. The first, in relation to the dental services of public health; the second, to protect users and workers, and the third to guarantee the best dental training and thus to have more guarantees for the citizenry. I could give many examples, but I especially remember what I explained here from a pediatrician when she passed on to me the difficulty she had with a sick child, a patient with a complicated family environment, who could not afford the treatments that would calm her odontalia, nor the displacements to go to Barcelona to find specialized help. MPs and MPs, today I would not like to mention Victor Hugo's sad life to the wretched, even though the scene of the square where Fantine is left without incisus is also easy to forget. Yes, I will talk to you about children who have problems with their careers, about people who don't have the resources to go to odontóleg, and where preventive guidance should be the key to not losing teeth; I will talk about people with oral cancer, and all this to propose viable measures, perfectly acceptable to our government, if it has wanted to improve these aspects. When I explained here the latest report on the oral health survey, I highlighted the 250,000 children under the age of twelve years who are still in school, as well as the 4_million_i_mig of Catalans older than twelve years who are still in permanent teeth, and that Catalonia has more than one hundred_ thousand Catalans older than sixty-five years without a tooth in their mouth. What a loss of quality of life. I see it's very worrying. How can we be here and not do what we can to diagnose before the oral cancer, knowing how we know that 85_percent of cases are diagnosed in late stages and that their early detection would reduce mortality to half? What? I couldn't be here and I couldn't do anything to improve the salvation of the 559 cases of oral cancer in Catalonia, of which 165 would die in the coming year..., and I wouldn't do it again. We have clearly defined the need to increase public dental services in Catalonia and to make efforts to prevent territorial discrimination, where there is a clear lack of equity in health care. Prevention is the key. We need to set up a more ambitious child care program than we have. The incorporation of these oral health care services into the children's population has shown in epidemiological studies a significant increase in the number of children free of travel, one of the essential objectives of health programs of this type. We can't leave unprotected citizens before intrusion and bad practice; I can't. The Official College of Odontòlegs and Stomatòlegs of Catalonia warns of complaints, and we here have to line up to avoid problems in those poorly managed franchises and advertising that deceives people. I remember again the Fantine, the wretched ones, who were misled and lost two magnificent teeth fruit of the stage. But that was a fictional description of the 19th century; we can't allow it in the 21st century, we can't admit the over-indication of treatments that go totally against professional codes of ethics and don't do it again. I won't do it, and I won't do it because the majority of professionals who lend – and lend – you serve dentists are very good, have exemplary behavior, and are, and I'm the first ones you don't want us to allow bad practice here. You didn't let anyone...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.83.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.84.0	...commit – I finish –...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.85.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.86.0	I'm done. We do not allow anyone to compromise the care reputation of the rest of the professionals – who did very well. We do it for all the Catalans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] To expose the papers presented, the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.88.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, members of Parliament, members of the Odontòlegs and Stomatòlegs of Catalonia, with whom we have also had the opportunity to speak with a voice about the news that affected dental clinics, therefore, during this start of the legislature. In relation to the motion that presents us today Ciutadans, I want to make a first initial consideration, in the sense that we all know – most of us, as well as the least – that public resources are limited. And as public resources are limited, public services must also be limited. And in this sense, salvation, oral sanitation is one of these services offered from public sanitation, but with many – many – limitations. And it is in the measure that this limitation of the treatment of oral sanitation for the public health service may have an impact on the salvation of the population, which requires all of us to make an additional effort to focus on prevention policies. And this is in the framework in which the Ciutadans Group presents this motion and this is the area: prevention; awareness; above all, action in children; moderate, sensitive expansion of the service portfolio in certain socioeconomic or health circumstances. We are perfectly aware of the difficulties that extending the portfolio of services of this can entail, but precisely, as we believe that... – and I believe that the majority of groups in the chamber agree that there are certain actions that need to be prioritized, that it needs to be implemented – we believe that, more than just a motion that has a limited effect on the government, it would be good if you did not remain in a simple declaration of intent, but that this will be reflected in the 2016-2020 Health Plan, which is being elaborated precisely at these times, and that is where, in some ways, it is concrete that actions are carried out during a certain period of time in the field of public health, in this case, in Catalonia. And, therefore, the fact that these elements are included in the Health Plan would also imply an assessment: first, a programming of the measures to be taken; second, a territorialization of the measures to be taken; and third, an assessment of the objectives to be taken at each moment. And, therefore, this allows, not only that at a certain time the Parliament approves a motion that gives leadership to the Government, but that periodically and in a larger document, such as the Health Plan, we have the opportunity to evaluate and evaluate the effectiveness and effectiveness of the measures that have been adopted. And, in this sense, it's one of the papers we've presented. Second element. In the past few years we've had a... – say "patit"; certainly not the word –, we've seen an evolution of business odontòlegs, functionally autonomous, functionally small dental clinics very close, very familiar, much, and so on, I would say tradition and family relationships..., we've seen an evolution of this model to a model where the business of odontology is the business of odontology; of odontòlegs to business of odontology. What without the need to criminalise absolutely anyone..., but they have put themselves in evidence determined practices that have triggered alarm lights: unjustified treatments, anticipated financing of treatments to be provided, tanks of subtacted establishments, incomplete treatments, disappearance of clinical patient histories..., and in this sense we believe that, therefore, it is also necessary to carry out some actions. We were already going to present a couple of resolution proposals in one concrete case, which was the closure of the Funnydent clinics, but I think they are extendable to any other case, such as the phone book of intermediation by Consum or the better of the administrative communication between the Department of Health or between the Generality and the assemblies. It does not seem to me normal that there are authorities to open establishments without corresponding health authorities. We have also presented one item... – to finish – two more items; one for not having to worry so much about the establishments that are to be closed, but for worrying because the establishments that are opened...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.89.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.90.0	... – I finish, I finish –, therefore, the establishments that are open are with all the necessary guarantees. And finally, that the patients have right to that which is theirs, which is neither more nor less than their own clinical history. Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.91.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word Ms Montserrat Candini, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.92.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome, President of the Odontòlegs College, President Toni Gómez, and all the board that accompanies him. Surely I must say to you, the president of the college, that you are one of those presidents, I think, that one of his manifestations is to say: "We will leave our hair there, eh? I liked this expression because many times I also said it for other questions, and in faith that you care a lot and a lot, of everything that affects your sector. Be welcome to the people's house. For what he does on the subject of the young man, to thank, as always, to the deputy Soler, the opportunity he has..., therefore, let us say, that everything that we have negotiated, in good measure you... – not everything, logically, is normal, but almost – that of the dinosaurs points, in fifteen I believe that we have come to understand ourselves perfectly, and therefore I thank this country, with the will, therefore, let us say, that we can reach the maximum agreement possible. In his intervention he made some expression, a little something... that seemed like an apocalyptic little thing to me, huh? I mean, as a matter of analysis of the situation I think that, if it is the will of the parliamentary group I represent, that it is together for the Yes, logically, to guarantee the maximum of possibilities throughout the service that is required, logically, so, in this case, in the public dental prevention policy, it is true too – and I think you should also recognize it – that things get angry, and they get angry enough, right? So I think I'm now going to have a little bit of a handover, too – a little bit – all that's happening, because, if not, if we strictly limit ourselves, let's say, to what you have expressed, it gives the feeling that at this level there is very little performance. To remember that, in any case, since the year 2013, the program « Strong and healthy teeth offers the first-class infants in Catalonia a stoig with a scrap of teeth; that from 2013 to 2014 they were beneficiaries forty_ thousand, but that from 2015 to 2016, sixty_ thousand. Therefore, I believe that logically, this is a good measure – a good measure – which is done. Also remember, therefore, everything you have to do with the dental prevention program in disabled people's centers, that this program gives coverage to more than 8,500 users. Of course, as everything else, reality is dynamic; the complexity of society; the interrelationship between need and socio-economic conditions, and, possibly, therefore, also other elements that can, let's say, give a greater complexity to the subject of what we are talking about– this or others – always – always, always – and in all things, and with something as sensitive as it is, logically, health policy, we are very much in the world, very loving, because, certainly, it will always take a lot more to improve. And, in this sense, tell him, deputy, and tell him to the Ciutadans group, that it is the one who presented this motion, that I do not doubt..., I have no doubt that on the part, therefore, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes... – and I know that on the part, therefore, of the Government – that we will do everything possible to improve, to ensure, in order to be able to expand, in the measure of our possibilities, all these services. Yes, that's true, and it's here, anyway, where, logically, we won't find ourselves so much, at these points we say, that, as a dinosaur, so there won't be any where we can't, let's just say, agree, that you have to see with everything that it represents... for example, one of the requests that you make, that is to call more places for primary care centers. Perhaps we will agree that it is necessary, but on the basis of what report? Based on what study of needs? Based, exactly, on what? Remember that theory of floating fingers, which I told you 15 days ago, right? I believe that, even with all its rigour in its interventions and, above all, its intellectual solidity, therefore, also require that, when these types of requests are made, we ate much more in there. One other thing is that... - we were going to insist on a mike on that, weren't we? – another thing without saying: to elaborate a study of needy about, really, what is..., whether it is necessary or not, that possibly, perhaps, would come out that yes, a greater amplitude of odontólegs, right? But, in any case, from a report that gives us the real magnitude of the needs, such as, for example, creating dental care services specialized in Girona, Tarragona, Lleida, etc. And why here and not in other places? So, again, floating finger theory doesn't help us make a good diagnosis. Of course – of course – which, possibly, reality requires major action – of course. They'll be loving. And I understand that the government will be loving, it will be willing, so logically, to try to donate outputs, solutions, to make as much as possible of everything it represents, from the point of view of the service portfolio..., and it is located in the territory. That's for sure. But from a rigor, from a report, from a very clear, let's say, manifestation of needs from a report. What I've said, what I've manifested, in ten points, practically, in fifteen we've come to points...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.93.0	Congresswoman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.94.0	I just got right away, president, I'm conscious. And, therefore, I thank you, I thank you for your will, and I only allow you to reflect: there is nothing worse in politics than generating false expectations. We do what we can with the resources we have and with the study, so, yes, we would need to know, exactly, where and what. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, in order to fix her position, the words of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's Assumpta Escarp have the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.96.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, in any case, also greet, on behalf of the Socialist Group, the president of the Collège d'Odontòlegs and Stomatòlegs. We were able to see each other, with the collège and also with theirs together in a few moments that were not the most pleasant, but, after a few days, and given the reflection, I think that, like at least, it served to put a thread to the needle to a theme that all the folds had raised, but that no one had put the direct to do it. In any case, the Socialist Group will support the motion submitted for the Ciutadans Group. I want to thank the text, and as it has presented itself, so as well as the effort I have seen to take on items, which can bring forward a major part, for which I have just interpreted from the later intervention, from the motion that has presented itself. I said, we haven't spoken at all, not always in a positive sense, but I understand that the sense of motion, in this case, in this broad sense, is to put it on the table and address it in a positive way. Funnydent's facts, they have ended up with a lot of people without treatment, but, above all, they are debtors of quantities that are not always absorbable, which also evidenced the scarcity of public coverage, but, above all, the deepening of choice and inequality. When we talk about oral health, we talk about prevention, about service portfolios, we talk about demand not covered and also about protecting users and professionals. And I think it's a little bit of a pose. My group wants to pay special attention to childhood, one of the parts that also put the motion back, in the aspects in which, in the plenary of poverty that this Parliament did, it was introduced the aspects of oral and ophthalmological health, because the children in a situation of vulnerability, the children in a situation of poverty, there are no areas of prevention or treatment and, therefore, we collect what the Sindico de Greuges said in the Report on the Rights of the Child in 2015. In this sense, my group also has a proposal, a motion for a resolution to push forward in this area; this area which does not only mean equality, but also territorial equity, because we remember that the children in Girona, Tarragona and Lleida have to come to Barcelona to be treated. Therefore, in the aspects of youth, prevention, health education, we are absolutely in agreement, but above all, we think that there are children who have neither the opportunity nor the opportunity to have these aspects and therefore we also need to extend them. I will not dwell on some of the other aspects – MP Jordi Soler has explained it very well –: hospitalised patients, early care; also the importance, as always, of primary care and, we will not tire of saying it, also in this case. This second aspect of the motion, which was also dealt with by Mr Santi Rodríguez, who refers to the protection of users and professionals..., as we say: uncovered demand, a lot of uncovered demand, and a non-stressed regulation has led to what has already been said, to bad practices, misleading advertisements, intrusion and mismanagement. That's what the college fights with day by day, and I think we all have to be on their side. At some point, someone said: "There may be three hundred dental clinics that can be irregular. If that's the case, we ask the government, not just the instruments, but it's tankin, if that's the case, because what we can't do is get back to people who have lost all their reaction skills, debts and no treatment, and in the worst of cases with many difficulties to recover their clinical history. We have to finish with these economic offers, with these cuts that only lower the quality of the professionals themselves. We need to know basically how it needs to be regulated, and we need to make, once and for all, all folds, a bet for the service portfolio as well. We'll also give him support in the field, when he talks... about the formation. We think it's also important to recognize what's going on around us, to look at it, to see it, and to know that mandatory, regulated training is also very important, but above all, continuing training. And, in this sense, we believe, therefore, that it is also worth looking at the countries of the European Union, where also in many of these things there is a medical officer who always guarantees the results. And with the last words of Mrs Candini, who says that "we do what we can with the resources we have, I will do an act of faith with the councillor, when he said that "oral salvation was part, and very especially, of the government's agenda". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.97.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Albano Dante Fachin, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.98.0	Thank you, President. Well, the first thing to do is to welcome this young man who was introduced by Congressman Jorge Soler because he puts this debate on the table and this, regardless of the doors he opens or does not open the table – we'll see it – is always very important because he doesn't just put the debate on dental care, he also puts on the table the debate about what happens when people's salvation becomes a business. That's what happens, that's Fantine, that's The Miserables; when salvation is turned into a business, things like these happen. About dental care. No one can deny that having a good oral salvation is vital to salvation. Ms Candini said a moment ago: "There is nothing worse in politics than creating false expectations. There is one thing worse, Mrs Candini: it is to deny reality. This is difficult in politics: to deny reality. Because you said: "Home! They're not still trembling. He was giving it to Congressman Soler. Listen to me, there are people in this country who, in order to take care of oral health care, have to go to Red Creu to be cared for by volunteers. This is a reality. Miri, I'll tell you one sentence: "Merchantilitzen the poor and the poor people in the field of oral salvation. That is not what I say, not what the anti-systems say, that is what Mr. Antoni Gómez, President of the Odontólegs and Stomatólegs Official College, has said, who is accompanying us today. This is a reality, we can't look at another band. I'd like you to put down the dental debate, but I want you to put in the debate about what happens to people's salvation when people's salvation is a business. This is also very important to talk about in this place, in this Parliament, especially when there are so many people in this Parliament that when they talk about salvation, and about the salvation of people, they talk about things like public-private collaboration and all these inventions that in the end they do are marketing salvation. We live in a country where if you want to have a good oral greeting and you don't have money to end up in the Red Creed, but the danger is that a certain sense of things in this Parliament about salvation..., see if we end up with more things, in the Red Creed! Because the other day you told me, didn't you? : "The double pot of sanitation and double... We already know how the double pot of public sanitation is, because we are talking about Funnydent and what is the patient's money, but we can talk about Mr. Bagó, we can talk about CRC, how the public money that had to be to do diagnostic tests on health, on the salvation of people disappear. So, it's a good debate about odontology because what goes on in odontology, if we don't have a little order and we don't start changing certain assumptions that a lot of people have around here, so we won't just solve this on odontology, but the problem is that we'll have it every time in more space. You said you needed to do a study, see how we did what Congressman Soler proposed to us. Well, of course, when you read the accompanying law, tax measures, and you see, for example, that there's this proposal to attach pieces of our hospitals to entities... you put it this way. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you put it that way? Well, we'll talk about it – we'll talk about it. We know that there are hospitals where dental centers, public hospitals, but dental centers that are not just public... This is the confusion that ultimately leads us to hear no re. Anyway, I'm sure we can't deal with it right now, all of this, but they're debates that are on the table, and that's why I thank Congressman Jorge Soler for bringing us this young man, and well, we'd be loving to see how he evolves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.99.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Mireia Boya, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.100.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to you all, from the deth grop of anti-systems. [[Widow's remorse.]] In generation we see many good causes in today's motion, and we are thankful that it has been presented. It's not that we could argue, and among others, we found that I was focused on him and that was prevention, and that's important, but he was focused on being an individual and behavior. We know that clinical interventions now and now people have changed eth behavior not for long. And here was literature and clear. So we know that it was the magnitude of this difference between groups in terms of the results of health prayer and largely explained for access to dental care, and also for social class. This means that it has to be measured directly from input and education indicators, and it is not based on people's oral behavior. From then on, it was salutary prayer that became a class marker, and this evince of working classes, and also a class of mine; and a factor of discrimination that then found work, was salutary prayer. And he's got a lot of other factors, huh? For example, it was safe to pray for immigrants who were in need of time, but now it is precarious. And he finds a grup that deserves to be paid attention for all that he knows he doesn't have a guaranteed access to the health service system he prays. That's what you're going to say that if you want to promote yourself, you're going to pray to a people and you're going to reduce it, you're going to pray to individuals from working classes and messes, or from me or baish, you're going to focus, in other words, to focus on certain social partners, and you're not going to dream of individual behavior. And alavetz, well, if we wanted to draw a system of prayer salvation, aura of ester proportionally universal – age nosati, eh? , non-systems –, ester gold provided universally, with finance and public provision, which I cause that we repeat in all areas of this greeting, and with diversified work hang, with prevention, lagoons of everything is health system and also in social service sectors; and to say, for example, in education. It was a motion to focus on the professionalization of dentists and dentists' assistants, a fact that we found positive, wasn't it? , appropriate training, autonomy, mechanisms entà hér ath dentist responsible deth son trabalh, control dera infection, protection deth patient, et cetera. And for what cause it was suppressed, and that we liked it most without transaction, that I was afraid to use flowers. We find this important to him, and we would recommend that he was..., don't think that he proposed and was suppressed if it wasn't for the water of this community and for the good alternative as it was for you or it was for the flower of this day or, together with the use of some rich flowers topics that were prepared and suppressed. We also think that programs that use fluorinated drugs in Mayan schools, in the first few years of the present era, holdages, and also a key farm. From the hotel, and to the country like Scotland that they have abetted for this and it is obvious results that starting in a zero-interview call to three years it is important. So, two points that we don't share and that we vote differently. For one thing, there's a reference to private clinics, for one reason or another, this anti-system candidacy, that we're a shau against everything that's still private, isn't it? That's a word we just didn't like. And, far from it, that the present day was the processing of a draft law, then guarantee and compliment this motion. This is why we are surprised that Alavetz will have to deal with the law to guarantee and compliment all motions that appear in Parliament's notice, and we find a strange sheet. At the same time, we think that she should be separated from her dentistry, but that she should be part of a system that is integrated with, like didia, universal greetings, finance and public provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.101.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, in order to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr. Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.102.0	Well, good morning. Thanks again. Firstly, to thank the interventions and all the negotiations that we have had, and thus to thank that salvation is such a cross-cutting and important issue that we once again agree with all the parliamentary groups. And that's important, as you say, because, besides, I still agree, yes, it is true, I believe that this Parliament is important that we do not generate false expectations – this is what we say all the time, we do not generate false expectations – and we spend money on just all this, on all those things, realities, and that give reality and support to the needs of all Catalans. Therefore, yes, yes, obviously, we do not generate false expectations and allocate resources to all those priorities that give response to all Catalans. I agree with you, Congresswoman. I share, in addition to his words, the passage that unites us with the illustrious president of the Odontólegs College, who has gone all the way there, so that is to leave the hair, all that we believe in health and health projects and, therefore, I can only subscribe to these words. So we have to do this, and above all, the success of joining a parliament like this and that in such a cross-cutting way we are united in important issues, so it is a gesture of pride and happiness. Well, the apocalyptic speech, so, I guess – I think Mr. Albano gave it to him too, and we could say it in other ways – the apocalyptic speech is usually from people who don't know reality. I don't know if you know her, and to what extent do you know her, but, well, the ones we're used to, and because we know her, obviously, professionally, what's going on in primary dental consultations, so, well, I never would have said there's an apocalyptic speech, and if you think I mentioned the miserable fruits of chance, then, well, I recommend to the deputies that the reader and they will understand perfectly why Dr. Soler brought this speech here. We didn't accept everything that the government hasn't made a clear compromise of the best and, therefore, everything that doesn't go to the assumptions, so, obviously, we do, right? In order not to create false expectations and because we want to be realists in this Parliament, we do not accept it. And if all these verbs purpose, where they go in the sense of our young man. We want concrete actions with well-defined control commitments, and so all those reports that are to be submitted to the Health Commission and that will give an answer to monitor, as the honourable Member rightly said, this, we will approve, and so we will be on this line. Just as we can guarantee the portfolio of services to lesser functional diversity, so we are absolutely in agreement with what Mrs Boya said very well: the principles of territorial equity that concern some, as well as you and I, that, in addition, we are more distant territories, as well as, therefore, working on this because equal opportunities – we also agree – are essential. If we want more seats for public health officials and hygienists at the Catalan primary health care centres, that's why we need to avoid access bars. I'm sorry the government doesn't pick this up. So, well, it's a way to pick up these false expectations. Each school knows where to prioritize its money. And finally, President, Councillor, Members and Members of the Official College of Odontòlegs and Stomatòlegs of Catalonia: we bet for a social improvement in the dental jump of Catalans. It's possible to do so. The salvation of people is a basic and irrefutable pillar with which to guarantee a fairer and more united society.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.103.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.104.0	Yes, I'm done, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.105.0	I'm having a hard time, huh? It's been a while.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.106.0	I'm done. Let us prioritise common needs in the face of individual interests and, as usual, only if we are willing. Today, again, we've made it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.107.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Miss Boya and Busquet ask to speak.]] Miss Boya?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.108.0	Yes; it is to ask for a separate vote from points 11 and 19.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.109.0	Thank you. [[Montserrat Candini and Puig ask to speak.]] Mrs. Candini?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.110.0	President, for a separate vote on points 3, 7, 8, 9 and 19.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.111.0	Can the 3, 7, 8, 9 and 19 vote together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, they're telling me no; they're telling me no, huh? - They're saying no. [[Long break.]] I have been asked to vote separately from points 3, 7, 8, 9, 11 and 19. We'll start by voting 3 to 19 and then we'll vote the rest of the vote, okay? [[Pause.]] So, now, the vote begins. We're voting point number three. It was approved by 69 votes to 62, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number seven. The vote begins. It was approved by 70 votes to 62, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. It was approved by 70 votes to 62, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 9. The vote begins. It was approved by 70 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number 11. The vote begins. It was approved by 121 votes to one, with 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number 19. The vote begins. It was rejected by 50 votes to 72, with 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was approved by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Many thanks – many thanks –, deputies and deputies. The session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.112.0	It's part of the session. Very nice late. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into immediate measures to address the emergence in the area of housing]] [[302-00046/11]] Motion subsequent to the question to the Government on immediate measures to combat the emergence in the field of housing, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. To expose it has the word Lord Lluís Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.113.0	Thank you very much, President. Too late to all and so to all. Well, first of all, thank, in the construction of this young man, the collaboration and the good understanding and the attitude of the political forces of this chamber; a collaboration and a way of working that I think I can say and I am convinced that they go beyond the good parliamentary forms, good forms that are always pleasing and that are always useful. I believe that somehow we could say that the hope that presided over the adoption for this chamber of the Law 24/2015, when the Parliament of Catalonia regained the very strong, very clear input of citizenship into the sense of citizenship in the sense of the need to respond to housing emergence, so, well, this spirit is still alive; it's still alive and I think it's time to say it and it's good news to translate this fact into citizenship. When Palau's summit was produced, remember, a few weeks ago, just the beginning of the initiative of the Spanish Government to bring before the Constitutional Court, to challenge a whole series of articles of the Law 24/2015, from that summit arose a mandate; it arose a mandate and was presided over by a spirit. I think that at that summit what was characteristic is that we spent very little time with toilets or lamentations and then everyone got into a debate about what to do. And in this sense there were two friends, to say the least, two expressions of this shared concern, which was expressed in that finding. On the Government's part, there was, at the same time, a proposal to put in place a legislative arrangement that could somehow cover all those areas, all those areas of protection that the foreseeable challenge – today confirmed – the suspension of some of the articles of the Law 24/2015, so they could leave to the discovery, above all for the protection of families, the obligation of the banking entities to meet their requirements for payment, social registration, etc. And at that meeting there was a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- This motion backs the input and the need to build this legislative device, which is on the way, which is about to be presented in this Parliament, but it also puts the emphasis, the emphasis, in everything we can do and that we need to do, and that we have strides and means to do so. And so, as you can see, the motion holds it as it was finally made; it backs up very varied aspects, always trying to land, land on things that we can do and that we have to do, from agreeing with the sub-administrative companies, from supporting the gatherings, from helping to make use of and promoting those devices of the Law right to the habitat that follow, that have had effects and that have been useful for some joints that they have used, as we are willing to attend to, therefore, or to work with the judgments, or how, at the very least, to manage the interventions and situations that are hard and complicated as they can be the orderly launch. I would also like to point out one thing which has not been objected to by a great deal of discussion and which the House is addressing a little bit of equitably, and we understand, as everyone will understand, that the powers of the Parliament of Catalonia do not allow us to go any further than to raise the question, which probably at a time given this Parliament will have to..., it should be able to debate, like other assemblies and autonomous parliaments, this problem, which is the problem, the question of the titles, the titles of the mortgages. It is a question that the PAH has raised to us with concern, that other social entities have raised to us and that beyond the concrete problem that represents for the families the fact, the situation of defencelessness in which the fact that they do not know who the holder is, who is the owner of the mortgage they have contracted, because the banking entities do not have the obligation, by law, to communicate to the mortgages in hands of who the title is, eh? Therefore, raise a problem of funds, a problem on which the company would be warmed up, because mortgages have become an important practice of all the financial entities, is a way to remove risks from its activity and to transfer them through the title in the form of good, good that is commercialized, to capitalize, and, from here on, to continue generating created without increasing its capital provisions. I might think that – and I'm done with this – at the earliest moment of the real estate cylinder, which, in fact, eh? , it was a financial bubble, the titles represented 140,000_million euros...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.114.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.115.0	I'm done, President. It's something that we'll talk more about before and that the young man is only able to clean up, but I think it's important that the Parliament of Catalonia called for the attention of society and public power over this extreme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.116.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.117.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, in the fund, the one we are..., as Mr Rabell has explained, while the Government has not just presented the legislative text that must give coverage and replace those aspects that the appeal of the Government of Mariano Rajoy, of the Government of the PP, has presented, we are here to arbitrate measures that help to spend these weeks, these months, right? Because, in fact, the appeal of the Government of the State, the PP, which filed against certain articles, which has made it possible to leave without legal coverage the obligation of the great tenors of housing to offer social logue and to mobilize and have legal instruments to mobilize, also, empty housing. We've taken days to get to know the legal bases of this unconstitutionality appeal, we've met them this week. And when an analysis of the state government's legal bases respects Law 24/2015, man, one top to the conclusion that what is being done with this remedy is to protect the interests of the great owners, and, among the great owners, of the finance sector, huh? I believe that in the background of this appeal, what is there is this, dressed to defend the powers of the central government. In the background they also end up feeling a great social insensitivity respecting the suffering of many families in this country. I believe that the objective of mobilising empty habitat is still valid in order to generate a social housing stock sufficient to respond to existing demands, but the current ones above all futures; it is to say..., because we must converge with Europe in relation to the percentage of housing in reference to which it is intended for social logue; to move from '1_per_cent where we are located at these times, both Catalonia and the rest of the Spanish State, to approximately 13-15_per_cent, which are European media. And, therefore, this is the goal: to mobilize habitat to respond to current demands, but above all to futures, right? And there are mechanisms in place to make these policies; laws that have not been resorted to and that allow even to arrive at the temporary or definitive expropriation of the use of habitats if they are not dedicated to the purpose that the same Constitution recognizes. I don't know how the law or the decree that is being drafted at these times will end. Now, a recommendation that my parliamentary group would make is that all that remains in force and that has not been appealed before the Constitutional Court, and that we do not know what will happen on June 26th, the better that we do not end up putting it in this new legislative text, do not know that we end up another time with remedies before the Constitutional. Whatever it takes, those instruments that it takes, so let's use them, huh? Let's use them. Clearly, that is why we also need a clear housing policy. And to have a clear housing policy to reach this goal of convergence with other policies that make Europe want to also compromise budgetary resources, eh? , which is sometimes what one finds missing, this compromise of presuppostari appeals. I have already announced that we will withdraw an item, the item number 1, which refers to the issue of coercive fines, because we believe in the many coercive fines, in fact, the first local entities that have applied it have been together – after that it has been more generalized – presided over by some mayor or some socialist mayor. We believe that the result of the Law of the Right to Housing and also the Law of the Urbanism of Catalonia is the local administration, with legal coverage of the Generality, but the local administration. I'm telling you, clearly: we are more in the hands of the local administration than the Government of the Government at the time of pushing these many coercive policies to mobilize the housing park. But why don't we just take this thing off, which was in this sense. And more. In any case, the rest of the points will be supported.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.118.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.119.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, following a little and having..., go on, believe in the wishes that have accompanied the presentation of this young man we would like, but to comment on some things. For us, it's starting to be a bit of a worry about the batibull and dispersal that there is at the legislative and normative level for which the government has to do to deal with emergencies. There is a whole battery of regulations, laws, measures, that should be put in order and in sulfate, because, if not, we will lose ourselves – or at least we will lose ourselves; now I am talking in particular about our group. And because we also believe that this battery of laws and regulations has two enemies: one is the possible desire or lack of political will that there may be on the part of the government to apply these policies, and the other is that we all know and that here we have already done it several times, that are the challenges on the part of the government's invitation; affections that, as I recall, affect in a nutshell two areas – the creation of tools of social attention and the possibility of generating our fiscal instruments – both of which are essential to be able to make social policies. If the balance of what the motion for a motion says to us is true..., and it is only possible to compare the same data provided by the Generality in its 2009 study on ill-allocations with the current ones of 2016, seven years between each other, to be able to assess it, to which is marked a clearly negative balance. And it is that, in fact, the great problem is precisely what we believe is aimed at the youth; it is the very poor ability to find alternative habitat. This is the great and sad reality: there is no alternative habitat that can respond to current needs. And today's reality is not just responsibility for the PP's policies of the last few years, it's the result of fifty years of policies, fifty years in which Catalonia has been correcting depending on everything that has been done in the Spanish State, and since 2004, a perfect copy of its housing plans. And that's where every one of us should apply the degree of responsibility that I could reach out to him. Also in the Motius presentation we remember that the Generalitat has exclusive skills in habitation. Home, that's right, but that would be in a normal state, but in what state we find ourselves, having or not competition, huh? So, it's not important, because, in fact, the same man recognizes it when he tells us that in the public performance programs of the 24/2015 Law probably have positive effects, huh? That is to say, we are talking that, in fact, withdraw or not, including, the..., we can..., we have skills to go asking for so many times as we want the recognition of these skills, but the reality tells us that what it is to have the real sovereign tools to deal with the problem. While the young man has certainly been repeated and followed by important demands on the government, we will support the young man as indicated to most of his points. We did, thanks for accepting the papers and, above all... but some respect considerations. It is at this point, for example, that we are talking about incorporating or maintaining the regulations of all the months of emergence as access requirements, we should take into account that, according to this, we would leave out, or we would not contemplate, the homeless, that according to current data in Catalonia there are 37,000 people with hard housing problems; 11,500 do not have to, 3,000 in Barcelona and 900, directly, sleep in the car. Also in point 9, huh? As well as sharing the will to avoid denunciations, we believe that when it comes to the paper to be made by the Mosses, I don't know, we'll have to clarify ourselves. What are the Mosses gonna do? Defending..., of course. [[the timer riu]] , says: "A non-intimidatory preventive action. Is that to say, actually what they're going to do, the Mossos? Are they defending those who are affected by being denunciated or are, as we see, defending private property, in front of a right that is not recognized in many, in thousands and thousands of people? So... it's that we're starting from the idea that, besides, it's like mediation, we understand that this conflict, that of denunciation, is not a conflict between equals. Therefore, our group has few expectations in the media. Finally, there is a theme that we consider fit, that has also come out here, that for us is this: that of not having a park to be able to give answer to the needy... And the cents you're proposing about what the fem, about empty habitats, about occupied, infra-habitats? That is to say, even though we use all the mechanisms provided for in the law, we would not mobilize a park to give it an answer. And it is in this sense that our group is committed to a national strategy to achieve the right to housing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.120.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.121.0	I'm done, President. We do not want, therefore, a housing plan that only takes place from the return department and its corresponding premise. Habitating, for us, is a right, not a lottery that is a draw or a bank business, and therefore, we need to build a housing park, far beyond Sareb and other banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.122.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word Mr. Marc Solsona, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.123.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, Mr. Rabell, very late everyone. Well, there's a 20-and-seven point debate between the points and the subpoints today, so it's a dense and complex one. One motion which, if it is important and relevant, is still more important this week, in which we have already found out what are the articles suspected for the Constitutional Court of the Law 24/2015, at the instigations of the Spanish Government. Therefore, we are in a legislative context that is the following: partial suspension of the 24/2015 and of the Code of consumption; we also have the Housing Law, on 18/2007; we have a Decree Law 1/2015; we have an ongoing case of urgent measures resulting from an ILP, in this case of Avalot, urgent measures, and we have, for example, different inquiries that have also taken place here. But, above all, we have another thing, which is that since May 3rd, which is the day of the summit that was made to the Palau of the Generalitat, it was created a working group between the promoters of the ILP and after the ones that made the reform of the Law 24/2015, Col·legi d'Avocats, Government and municipalist entities. What's the point? With the aim of drafting a text that can supplement and respond to those articles suspected of the Law 24/2015. Therefore, it is not that there is no text presented, it is that until there is the appeal on hold of which it is suspected has not felt that there is a text. Therefore, there was no delay here in any case, in this sense. Therefore, all the interrogations have always been in two senses, both of the Junts for the Yes Group, as of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, as of any group: one, in the rebuig al TC, and two, to continue to hold firm the commitment to help the people, especially the most vulnerable people. I say all this because in all the marches and spaces of debate, they are already legislating as well as in those scenes of political reaction, it has always taken the will to add and agree large majority so that we can transfer to the citizenry a unit of action in the protection of basic rights. It is in this sense, in the search for agreement and consensus, that I would like to thank Mr. Rabell for his predisposition and attention to attend to and try to agree on our papers, whether by acceptance or by compromise, because in order to be able to reach an agreement at the end to be able to vote for the cent_per_cent of the motion, to us, and to me personally, it reaffirms me in the feeling of overcoming the narrow political discrepancy in order to give meaning and fruit to useful and possible agreements, which require us a lot, because they are absolutely necessary in a time of crisis like these. Together we want to give..., and we want to add to proposals unity, sensible, useful and above all possible, because we can not generate false expectations that can lead to later frustrations and more disenchantments. From the responsibility, therefore, and the will of the whole, we support this motion, to the hope that this legislative text of reaction to the judgment of the Constitutional Court will come to us, so that we can follow the parliamentary debate, which is very enriching on this subject, with this, it will be, but with a strong strength and determination in which it is the essence of the question. A youth on seven out of twenty-seven points, either is already a fan or is expected to do so; where twelve come, practically in the literality, from proposals that the PAH, for example, makes in the municipalities, therefore, the return of this will already from social entities. We understand that all folded are communicating vessels, because it also has a very cross-section character motion, since it affects different councils, already Habitatge, Interior, Company, Consumer, and including Treball. Therefore, it is a motion to assume legislative commitments emanating from the summit that has taken place; to deploy measures on energy poverty or to implement existing ones; to realize a hundred habitats that are not complete the social function that can complement the existing register of empty habitats – that currently has indexed 46,800 habitats–; to exploit at most the legal framework in force and not suspected; to exhaust the current lines of help in order to be able to pay by-laws; to sanction procedures through the Catalan Agency of Consumer Affairs..., and here I wanted to make a point of a Socialist Party statement, but I see that they have withdrawn it, I understand, therefore, that it no longer has felt. In short, a motion that also calls for institutional coordination, calls for information campaigns and also calls for the unravelling of issues such as, for example, the signature of agreements with the sub-governing entities. Proposals, commitments, demands all of them for a good cause. I thank you one more time, Mr. Rabell, because today we can talk about majorities and better intentions on issues that are sensitive, as they are, and we have said, housing and poor energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.124.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. [[Some applause.]] The words of Mr. Alberto Villagrasa, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.125.0	Thank you, President. Members, Mr Rabell, the truth is that much of the spirit of the motion that you have put forward we can share it, and then I will give you some very timely voting motivation; but also some questioning, some ‘but, and that explanatory statement...', when you speak of the People's Party, in which you more or less come to say that policies have been expressly directed at adversely affecting many vulnerable families. And that is an exercise of demagogy – it is an exercise of demagogy – because the policies of all parties when they rule..., in this case the People's Party, what it has tried to do is to stop and alleviate the negative effects of the crisis throughout Spain. And the effects of the crisis are true that they have been devastating to many families, but blaming a party like you do in the explanatory statement is typical of the most racy and nightly left. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, look, and the problem, do you know where it's coming from? By the promises of some parties, or of some candidate, that when they said that if they ruled in their municipality there would be no evictions, they would disappear; and it turns out that when they ruled they followed evictions, even in housing and municipal premises, and that's what happens in Barcelona with Mrs. Colau; so take note. It is true that evictions are an unpleasant situation for many families, and that in times of crisis they have intensified; but it is also true that the Spanish Government has been the first to attempt to legislate on this social problem. We could discuss whether what was adopted was enough or not, but the truth is that it was the first time it was done, because there was nothing before. And before going to the prosecution, to point out to the culprits who are not in this chamber, first, we should look at the solutions that have been tried to alleviate the problems of families who have this problem of risk of social and economic exclusion. Here we have talked about the ILP of urgent measures in matter of habitatage, which, let us remember, has been pending since 2007, and we are in 2016. And that's entirely the fault of this camera. What has the Generalitat done to try to know how many floors of protection of public title exist in Catalonia, both of the Generalitat and of the municipalities? Do we know? And they're unallocated. We don't know. In order to provide solutions to the needs of extreme need you must first resort to what is here and, for example, to the public-owned dwellings that exist, without use and without being awarded, and if we do not know exactly how many there are we do not seek guilty, because that is the excuse to try to punish private property. Or, for example, has an attempt been made to negotiate with financial institutions, banks, to know which stock of flats are empty? , to try to negotiate and take them out to the market at prices of social rent or affordable rent, has an attempt been made? Basically, no. Of course, it is easier to sanction or fine than to negotiate, not everything goes through expropriation and punishment. On what is called 'energy poverty', the People's Party in Parliament voted in favour of all its elements and the proof is that no recourse has been made to these articles which refer to this problem. But to help families who need to meet their basic needs in terms of light and water, there is no need to excuse the fact that it is being legislated for months; it takes political will to do so, and to carry out the relevant budget line, and the social action plans that are required. Many municipalities have done so – many. The Government of the Generalitat in this case has not been able to live up to and always shielding itself in the bad, very bad, of the Government of Madrid. The strategy of the Generalitat has in this case been unworthy – unworthy –, seeking institutional conflict rather than seeking real and effective measures. This problem has not only occurred in Catalonia, it has occurred throughout Spain, and many autonomous communities have done what they have done is to take an effective way to deal with it and take action from the social sphere, and not seek conflicts either legal or institutional. And without changing laws. I'm finishing up. I say to you, Mr Rabell, that you will understand that in those points which call for the withdrawal of the recourse to the CT, we will not vote in favour; you will understand this by political coherence and because in addition the remedies to the Constitutional Court are to try to ensure that our legal system does not have problems that create legal uncertainty, quite the contrary, but helps to have a clear and clear legal system. That's why the Generalitat of Catalonia is in the top ten to resort to CT every time it believes that there is a competition conflict, and it's totally legitimate. I'm just finishing up. Mr Rabell, I am voting against these points, but I am also saying that we will vote in favour of a large part of the motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.126.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, there's the word "Mrs. Naomi of the Street" from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.127.0	Thank you, President. This motion is the result of the summit held on 3 May, as it reflects the measures of the road map of the promoters of Law 24/2015. Although we consider that it does not fully comply with the spirit of that meeting, from Citizens we agree that Law 18/2007 on the right to housing has been underutilized. We must remember that it exists and use it. That is why we have tabled in various municipalities motions that go in that line; recalling, moreover, that we also have other tools to solve this social emergency, such as the real second chance decrees, of mortgage debtors without resources, and various out-of-court agreements introduced in our competition legislation – the one we presented in l'Hospitalet was unanimously approved yesterday. But on 3 May several mayors' entities expressly asked us not to re-regulate rules that could be suspended by the Constitution at three months, asked us for new legislative instruments to provide security. And this isn't so hard, I'll give you some examples. We have the proposals of law presented by Citizens, to address the problem of energy poverty in a comprehensive and structural way from the competences that the Generalitat does have in the field of social services. We have also put forward a bill to encourage social and affordable rental contracts. Finally, we can really increase in the budgets the rent payment aids that are not just the crumbs of budget availability, or include and provide real resources to help with the payment of mortgages in emergency situations. Yesterday, President Puigdemont said to remove the tools to help our poor, and it stays so wide. No one, gentlemen of the Government, prevents them from spending less on state structures and more on social benefits. Another thing is that you prioritize Mr Romeva's journeys around the world, looking for someone who receives them, rather than taking care of the importance and solving the urgent problems of Catalans. It's a matter of priorities. To exercise the legislative capacity to effectively guarantee the right to housing, as the social partners have asked us, is not to create a consolidated law with the elements suspended for invading competences or incorporating the suspended articles into other laws, which is what you propose, because they would again suspend, and citizens do not deserve to act so irresponsiblely but solutions. You with these kinds of proposals play the game to parties that prefer confrontation to look for real solutions to problems. They are making the same mistakes that their Initiative colleagues have made in the past. They will be able to come out in the photo with those who live politically to create territorial conflict, but they will not be solving social problems, they are dancing the water to a government that adopted the maximum Leninist of "the worse, the better. Worse for the people and better for them, of course, because to achieve their political project they need society to feel frustrated, even if they say no. They need a socially frustrated and neglected society to sell the populist discourse that things are very bad because of what they call "Madrid". The Government of Spain has done and does many things wrong, no doubt, so Citizens did everything possible and continue to do everything possible to make a change, but the truth is that the Generalitat has many competences, can do many things for the benefit of the citizenry, and if it doesn't do them it is because if people notice improvements it won't give a valid speech that to solve things you have to leave Spain. Therefore, the priority of this Government is not people, but to create the social climate conducive for people to join the separatist project by going beyond the needs of the most vulnerable. If this government were socially sensitive, it would try to solve the problems with the tools we have. The road map also requires us to achieve the objectives of Law 24/2015 for all Spaniards, but you have not included this in the motion. It has been the only proposal of the road map that they have not included in their motion; they have been forgotten by chance. We have reminded you of this with an additional amendment which you have not accepted. Giving a comprehensive solution to the housing emergency for all Spaniards was one of the objectives of Citizens in our government agreement. They can see that, it was to give national scope to these measures in order to overcome competition problems. This happens in Spain because the Lords of Podemos have not allowed the formation of this progressive government of change. They voted against, by the way, as they voted against withdrawing the elections. You in Congress have played to make the clamp with the People's Party. In the meantime, there is no doubt that Citizens will continue to offer solutions for all citizens to see their rights protected. That is why we will vote in favour of those points of the motion that are well raised from a competitive or legal point of view and we will defend in the Congress of Deputies those social measures of state competence, so that all Spanish citizens can benefit from them. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.128.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Lord Lluís Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.129.0	It's a long time since the left. Tell you that the late beauty also has her encis. Well, listen, no, thank you very much for the interventions and for the general expert, all that, allow me to respond very briefly to two or three things that have been said here, because I understand that everyone is taking advantage of it to put their jaw down, right? Listen, I don't think we can talk about demagoguery. I do not want to speak on behalf of the Barcelona Assembly, but I do find that the Barcelona Assembly informed us that, having gathered in the Llei 24/2015, they had put up with the capital of Catalonia almost 700 denunciations in the last few months. Therefore, it is an act..., it was not only a useful device, but there was a compromise and a firm act on the part of the joints that have undertaken to do so, to put up with denunciations. Listen, negotiate with the banks? Just like that, this arrangement had the right to urge banks to negotiate. And the banks are negotiating from the joints, which they have enough strength to push into the negotiation, and from the social entities. This is happening all over the place. Some joint ventures, such as Terrassa, have used resources from the Law of Right to Housing to recover and mobilize habitats in the hands of large estates and financial entities, and other places, from few streets, almost, from the PAH or from mediation offices, have also achieved elements of negotiation and mediation. So, that's what this will is. To say and answer only, in the end, something very concrete. Mr. Garriga said to me: "What do we do with the moves? Look, the ones that we found in the streets of the vein movement, so, we found ourselves, sometimes, with interventions of the moves that have ended with a ball of sticks and others that have managed reasonably well. Therefore, there are different ways to act on the ground, even though the movements act as the judicial police. A little, the lady, what she's trying to say is that, huh? That there are different ways of acting within the framework of legality, which is what it is, before we can change it in a more substantial way. Quite simply, that. And finish saying one thing; listen...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.130.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.131.0	Yeah, I'm done with this. We are not simply talking about a territorial conflict; laws like 24/2015, with this spirit, have been suspended in other autonomous communities. Therefore, we have a social conflict and a class interest. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.132.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.133.0	Yes, to request a separate vote on items 1, 2, 4 and 6.j.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.134.0	Can you vote together for yourselves?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.135.0	No, we could vote them all together except for four. Or go, the 1, the 2, the 6.j, for one band, and the 4 for the other.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.136.0	Four of you asked me, 1, 2, 4 and 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.137.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.138.0	So, you can vote together 1, 2 and 6.j, and not the 4. Okay? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] [[Alberto Villagrasa Gil asks to speak.]] Mr. Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.139.0	To request a separate vote on items 1, 2, 4, 6.a, 6.b, 6.c, 6.f, 6.j and 8. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.140.0	I have been asked to vote separately from points 1, 2, 4, 6.a, 6.b, 6.c, 6.d, 6.j and 8. Is that correct? [[Pause.]] Okay? [[Pause.]] [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.141.0	Yes, but not together. We could vote together on 1, the 2, the 4...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.142.0	I've been told not 4th. No, all of these would vote separately and then the rest, because they already told me that the 4th would want it separately, or so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.143.0	Perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.144.0	Huh? Okay? [[Pause.]] So, we'll start by voting all these and after the rest of the vote. Okay? [[Pause.]] Now we're going to vote point one. The vote begins. It was approved by 96 votes to 10, with 23 abstentions. Now we're voting point number two. The vote begins. It was approved by 96 votes to 8, with 25 abstentions. Now we're voting point number four. The vote begins. It was approved by 96 votes to 33, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on the 6th. The vote begins. It was approved by 120 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 6.b. The vote begins. It was approved by 120 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 6.c. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes to 8, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 6.d. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on 6.J. The vote begins. It was approved by 97 votes in favour, against and 33 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest... [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.145.0	6.f.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.146.0	I'm sorry, so we'll vote now. Then we'll vote on point 6.f. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. And now, then, we will vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. It was adopted by 130 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Some applause.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into enterprise policy]] [[302-00047/11]] The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on business policy presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, Mr. Joan García has the word. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please ask them to be quiet and in a hurry because we have to continue the session. [[Long break.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.147.0	Yeah, just a moment. [[Pause.]] Thank you, President. Members, Members, after the question of the full past with the Councillor of Enterprise of the Government of the Generality we found a reality and subsequently we found a series of needs. We saw a reality that has names of entrepreneurs like Delphi, like General Electric, like Covestro, like Bacardí, Ercros and all those who have left our community in the last few months. We have found that the relocation of enterprises is not just the outcome of a capital investment – which is obviously also the case – but a relocation of knowledge, as well as a very hard time for the business ecosystem of some sectors, especially those sectors which, precisely the Government of the Generality, considers strategic. We found that the policies of struggle against displacement could not be left in the hands or in the decision of a single family– today we have, in fact, news about this– that we would have to banish irregular situations such as that of the reindustrialization process of Ficosa ; there, as you will know, the shadow of 3_per_cent appeared linked to the intermediaries that enabled the process and that were linked to the Pujol family. We found that precisely in Ficosa the only conditions that were laid down were those intermediaries and they did not form, those conditions, part of the clauses of guarantee of occupation that today, with this young man, we have asked them to apply to the processes that make Avançsa. In fact, we found that Advanced does not work, that models do not serve us and that it is necessary to change its scope, its objectives and the amount of resources it has today. Therefore, we believe that today we are bringing to the plenary answers to these findings and to others that have also been shown. Responses based on an irrefutable fact too: there is no single solution to avoid displacements. Since there is no single cause, this is obvious; because the cause of displacements is found in a whole set of variables that weaken the ecosystem and make it reduce its ability to hold them. What do we propose? Propose tools. We propose to create and improve the tools that the same companies and the workers that today tell us that they have been leaving for a long time. What are you looking for? Perhaps a certain consensus, or perhaps an exercise in pedagogy, or simply trying to show the Government that there is a group in this chamber that wants to work for the Catalans, for our land, without the need for continuous exercises of demagogicism; that speaks of everything, of any problem, without having to say that the solutions are only written to the novel of science-fiction called independence, novel of which unfortunately we have heard today speak to various advisors in various interpellations. But well, all that, we have to thank the papers presented for all the groups in the chamber; we have to thank that today, too, these papers help us to see some facts. The first fact, that the PSC will continue to support the linguistic fines. That the PP does not want to change its energy model; in fact, that we assume that you believe that its legislation is the most suitable for Catalan and Spanish businesses; we find, therefore, that they may not talk to companies; we find that they are not aware that the legislation will change after June 26. We see that the economic model of the CUP and the Junts per el Si – the Lords of Junts per el Si, in case they don't know it yet – has an abyss in the middle, and that in the end it has to be the opposition in its conjunction that stands above the table. Or, as our spokesman Carlos Carrizosa said today: "They are in a drifting ship with mutiny. Thank you for giving me the support. That this group calls for a Mediterranean Corridor to defend the Courts the only Catalans we believe are really decisive, the Ciutadans. We see that you, together for the Yes, want to connect from the disconnection, and that this is an oximoron. We also see that there can be much better ways for the generality to put themselves in the hands of businesses in order to survive the crisis and displacements. We don't have to fine trades. We see that the need for a real change to Advanced is necessary, and now we will achieve it. We also see that a proposal of second chances is needed because those entrepreneurs who have ceased to be try again. In short, we note that there is a need to act positively and cross-cuttingly on the business ecosystem and to generate tools to avoid displacements. We say, therefore, from the first force of opposition, that we are willing to work for our society, for our businesses, for our future, passing over a novel of science-fiction that will end up looking...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.148.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.149.0	... the members they have – Madam President – and the social minority in which they are found. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.150.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the words of Mr.Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.151.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, before we talk about business policy measures – that we already say that the vast majority of us are collecting them – I think it is a good time to remember, too, because there is an obvious relationship, fantasistics – always better, but fantasistic too – given that there have been public events about the situation, and that, moreover, they show one thing: first, that labor reform is working; second – because the small letter of these data is to be looked at – it is not the great corporations, so painful, the ones that are generating more occupation, there are the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are beginning to recover. It shows that, in this package of measures, which I insist on, most of us are collecting them, there is nothing better than a good economic, macroeconomic policy, to harvest these small and medium-sized enterprises. If the gifts are facilitated, things will work. In any case, this is macro measures, and today we are talking about more concrete measures in the Catalan competition field, and that are many points of the motion, but we would like to talk about four of these and then explain the theme that we have presented. Polygons: Since the year 2003, Catalonia has been a worrying phenomenon, and it has been broken – it was already broken in the time of the tripartite, but it has not been corrected for the governments after the tripartite – which had been a good collaboration together – the Government of Catalonia at the time of designing polygon policies. It's just, this communication's broken. And they get used to being spaces of shared skills. If the approval of today's point is present can help improve this, then forward. Two – related, but not exactly the same –, only industrial. We're going back to the time of the tripartite. It has done a territorial planning, not corrected, I insist, since the year 2010 – not corrected – that practically converted into a heroization the implementation of new industrial only in Catalonia. And that's still exactly the same. If the government takes note of what is approved here today, then let's hope it can serve for something. We don't have a lot of clarity. Three: industrial policy. She's talking about four of the points of this young man. And we have the whole mandate to talk about the "More Industry" pact, and here it is obvious that there are groups that have a different vision, with different materials, about what the process of reindustrialisation in Catalonia is about..., and the government itself is now absolutely disconcerted, so because it has its vassallatges, and of companies that have a radically and diametrically different model. Therefore, it speaks – it speaks, it speaks – of the pact « More industry, but it is not absolutely re. I quartet: second-opportunity plan. And as long as it is, it is one of the proposals that we integrate into all the autonomous Spanish communities by the People's Party and, therefore, we cannot do anything else but vote for it. And, what have we asked for? The removal of point number 3, which is what refers to the energy model. Miri, if it is drawn from an ideal world..., you said that it is clear that the People's Party does not want to correct its energy policy; so, in an ideal world and with a different heritage, obviously, it would not have been this energy model, but we have to bear in mind one thing: the increase, also exponential, of the energy price has concrete dates, and go from the year 2005 to the year 2010; increase saving the energy price, an authentic energy bubble. This provoked a series of measures by the new People's Party Government, which obviously are not measures that it likes to take, but they have provoked one thing. They caused... it's true that the price of energy hasn't fallen yet, but it stopped the rise. Moreover, there are three or four sectors, and later there are good news even in the consumption of families, where the price of energy is slowly falling, but it is falling. So what we can't do right now is insist on the same mistakes that José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero's government made. And that it's obvious that for the future, when the thing is a more stable little thing, it can take nine measures not so much price control as incentive of other formulas, as it is spoken here, of self-consumption. So, they'll keep the People's Party on the side. But whatever it means to repeal – which is what you demand – a policy that has been uncertain and that is yielding its fruits, obviously, we cannot reap it. And it's the theme we've presented, and it's the only point of the motion we can't share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.152.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.153.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Well, so, we've done some tests, little points to the young man who's been calling us Ciutadans. It seems appropriate, but I also have to say that we are a little skeptical, because about a year ago we asked Councilman Felipe Puig, he approved a motion in this House, and the truth is that we did not see much change in the government's industrial policy. It's true that we now have a new advisor and we trust that I'm changing the course and we hope that that's the way it is, but the truth is, two years later and I haven't seen much change. We gave it to the advisor at that time, first of all, what an economic model we wanted for the country, if a low cost model in which we would compete down, which is one of the things we've seen, and more Convergence and Union brought together the labor reform that has helped this; or if we would base our economic model on knowledge, to give added value, to innovate, etcetera, wouldn't we? We're hoping this is it, and we think this is the model they're going for. And to make this happen, certainly conditions, because in the end, clearly, the People's Party, so, he, let it do, let it pass, that was a little what Felipe Puig gave us at that time, right? We believe that it may not be very interventionist, but the Administration must set the conditions for things to happen. And in this sense, therefore, it is true, the movement speaks of infrastructures, in this case of the Mediterranean Corridor. Infrastructures are key because there are investments in the territory, but they are also key because they grow the businesses that have been created. Therefore, there are elements of conditions that are essential. I said the infrastructure..., it's about industrial alone, and the truth is that it's interesting to talk, because it's a little talk, and in the end it's true that the planning of industrial soil in a country, so it has a lot to see with how the industry develops and how we can attract industry. Many times..., and we here have made reviews because it takes account of the gatherings, – many times it has not been taken into account enough –; or the gatherings, it is also true, have not just done a coordinated policy with their surroundings more immediately, and this has also made it difficult many times for investments to come, or that enterprises, therefore, in the accounts of staying in the territory is transferred to other autonomous communities, has it not? So, I don't really agree with what the deputy of the People's Party said that there was a disenfranchise or a disenfranchise, do I? , between the assemblies and the Generality, but it is true that the assemblies have better planned their industrial soil. And above all, it's a co-ordinant for the industrial only that touches its municipality, contiguous, because one of the problems that we have is this, that we don't coordinate these supramunicipal policies and then we have difficulties at the time, so that a company that grows is staying in our territory... or that attracts foreign investments. Therefore, this is a key issue that lies between the Business and Knowledge Council, and the Territories, and I hope, therefore, that in this sense we can advance a little, and certainly do a certain pedagogy, also, in the local world. It is also spoken in this movement of themes of entrepreneurship, growth, linked to finance, important, with Advance, but there are also other instruments. He's focused a lot on this guy here, and I'm sure he'd be fine getting in there a little bit, right? And maybe know a little bit more at what point it's in this advanced moment, which are your goals, and probably, like we're at the top of the legislature, it would be worth it, so we're asking, right? Or that we'd like to talk more about it in detail, just like all the topics related to the transfer. We have spoken, and also very punctually, of the Tecnio network, of Eurecat... We have much interest in knowing exactly what the immediate future and the Eurecat time will be. There are six technological centres that have gone together; let's hope that, in sum, they have gone up to multiply, because, if not, we don't think they have too much feeling, but we would also like to know in which lines, in which sectors, and this is one of the things that also, in some way, is implicit in the young person. But let's hope the lack of concreteness doesn't make the government not move forward. In any case, we're very insistent on this, because it's very important, so for the country, right? Beyond the search, how do we transfer this knowledge to companies. And, lastly, a subject that concerns us very much – and the honourable Member has spoken about it – that is the whole issue of displacements, the closure of businesses. Unfortunately, we are starting a new legislature and we are still in business and, therefore, we should probably be more open, a little more proactive; we know that sometimes decisions are business and we have little to do, but if we add all these things that we've been doing, we may get that not in tankers and that we keep more places of work here because, in the end, it leads to closure and negativity, so it doesn't help that we just get out. Therefore, an appropriate motion, we have made some point on time, but above all we hope that the Government, therefore, will have concrete results in this sense, and above all that it will advance with a demand from all the parliamentary groups, which is a pact, a national plan for industry, which we believe is the one that came to our country to articulate all these measures.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.154.0	He's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.155.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.156.0	Thank you very much. Next, the words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.157.0	Well, thank you, President. We respect the motion of the Ciutadans group, the main point we have made is that where there is public money there must be public control and/or representatives of the workers. And so, if the generality invests in a company, that has to involve a change in the model of the management of that company and what you do, therefore, in a sense of co-management. We're short. We, from our point of view, would bring forward the proposals of companies in reindustrialisation processes and would talk about co-management to talk about supporting those cases in which workers want to take control, the continuity of these companies and, therefore, we would talk about self-management. But the motion simply focuses, therefore, on the cases in which the Generality intervened providing finance to these enterprises, and then what we have on the table, in the form of papers, has been, therefore, the public bank, without which it is very difficult, not to say practically impossible, to focus on the strategic planning of reindustrialisation, and second place, therefore, the participation of workers in the case of these enterprises. These ideas have not been accepted by Ciutadans, so it is obvious that these ideas of public banking or participation of workers are those that find the layman so disabling, does not alienate me. On the other hand, I think that they are very bad readers of the left-wing authors, they are very good readers of science-fiction, as we have shown, but the phrase "the worse, the better is not Lenin's, so they have to recommend some more readings. At the margin of this, you point to which we take a position: optical fiber and high-capacity mobile access network. What we have incorporated here, therefore, is territorial balance, the criterion of territorial balance; at the time of making these investments, attend to those areas most punished for deindustrialisation, most punished for the past. On points 3 and 4, generation of energy and solar plates, what we have proposed is that it should stick to a priority to take advantage of the already built basement, not to make more solar parks, but to take advantage of this poor practice that was the real estate cylinder and that today we have, therefore, so much built-up surface, at least to put the solar plates there. And in the same line, if we are talking about industrial alone, it is, therefore, about industrial alone in surplus, there are many empty naus and we think that it is a priority, before we talk about new provisions, to hear, to rationalise existing ones. In the rest of the points we agree, but there are two in which, clearly, no. On retaliatory trades, here they will not find us by chance, it is a question, therefore, of linguistic rights, of linguistic normalization. And second, smart factories. We think that with the deindustrialisation of our society, as also in other European countries, a few myths emerge, such as immaterial production, cognitive capitalism, the collaborative economy, myths that claim from technology that the contradictions between capital and work become secondary because the transformations our economy experiences through technological innovation, so that's what it does, right? In the same way that the collaborative economy is a good idea based on cooperative principles, but as it is applied in some practical realities to which it is intended to replace paid work and subject to rights, so to speak of other concepts without taking into account the working force has the same threats, and to speak of smart factors without talking about where this working force remains is to mitigate the new industrial strands. Just to finish, there is precisely a report from the Bosch multinational, which goes far beyond, precisely, this 4.0 industry, in which you can read: "Who are the characteristics of an intelligent factory? Says: "In an intelligent factory, production and logistics operate autonomously. The factory can organize itself and its processes and solve any malfunction or problem without human intervention; only in exceptional cases people are required to intervene. Of course, this model post, post, postfordist cabria in a utopia where the rich is distributed, but while the work is the way to access rights, the right to work will continue to feel the priority when we talk about productive models. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.158.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.159.0	Thank you, President. What we can see is that the electoral campaign has begun, all the way back to the day. In any case, you present a motion that, essentially, speaks about some aspects related to the country's industry issue, so it does not cease to surprise its point number 11 – its point number 11 – which talks about changing the language policy rules that promote catalation of trades. Rather than finding out that it's the typical mantra that you're getting used to in front of the gallery outside of Catalonia now that it's election time, they're simply not right, because inside Catalonia everyone knows that this isn't any difficulty. I know that if the trades regented for people the origin of which has a different alphabet than ours, such as Chinese or Arabic, have no difficulty in retrieving at least in Catalan, I doubt that those who have the alphabet in origin will have it. So, I can hear you, can't I? But I come to the conclusion that it is simply voluntary and aware to create difficulties where they do not exist. I can be sure that we will vote against it as many times as we present it. And in relation to what the young man really is talking about, which is the industry, we believe that it is a retreat of requests for political wills, that without much concreteness, that you are doing to the government, in which we agree in general, basically because it is also difficult not to coincide in wishes of good will, let us say, that it is much that counts, that we will vote for them by exposing some materials that I will now explain to you and that have motivated the papers that we have presented to you. We agree that you are setting up Advanced, that it is an instrument that is not only dedicated to stopping copies of possible closures, but also in pre-emptive phases; that it also acts with peppers; that it involves the possible transfer of search centres and also, above all, that it applies guarantees of occupation clauses in reindustrialisations. We all agree. And we also agree that the SOC has a program for people involved in deindustrialisation processes. In relation to the infrastructures that can favor the industrial fabric, it is to say, transport, energy and industrial polygons, which is another departure from its motion, to see, from the demand to develop the Corridor of the Mediterranean we do not talk about, because it is unanimous, and even though it is symbolically, listen to me, it must be re-voted, okay. Now, it is also the damage that the real decree of the State that penalizes self-consumption in electric energy and evidences how the policies of the grids of this country that work for them are coming together before the oligopolises, even though this is supposed to harm the corporate fabric of the band and band of the strip, which is why they should actually work. And as for the polygons, the question we ask ourselves is, do we need more? So, miri, I don't know. I don't know, because there's a gap with what we have, because there's a big enough lack of planning that we need and because it would have to be made clear that they would have to be used to get back to the country and to be able to balance the economic fabric in the territory. And that's industrial policy, not just laying red staves because who you do what you do where you do, which is what's going on right now. That's why I recovered, in the form of an emena, a proposal that we approved two years ago in a motion that we presented and that with Councillor Puig did not take place, to see if with Councillor Baiget we have more luck this time. We need a map that assesses the situation of the current polygons, which tells us how they are in energy sub-administration, broadband connectivity and access, as many goods as public transport, so that there can be workers and workers, because in the area of sustainable mobility to go to work we are scratching – scratching – the third world. And therefore, it is necessary to plan the necessary infrastructures, certain, in the medium term, to make it possible, those of mobility for a band, and the strategy of development of energy supply with as much renewable energy as possible to go to the self-sufficiency of these industrial areas. But the planning of industrial strategy, I said, should serve us to re-establish the country and re-balance the economy, if we want to do politics. This is why we propose that the current industrial strategy of Catalonia incorporate a reactivation programme, which is now one, but that this definition of which are the preferred areas of action in the country takes into account three basic aspects: those which have lost to the industrialists the past few years and can give them a boost, on the one hand; the most affected areas in the past few years, and those areas which have territorial development projects that are costly to deploy and that would require a boost. To thank, therefore, the acceptance of these items by the proposing party, to announce that we will vote in favour of the points of the motion except point 11, for which we ask for the separate vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.160.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Lord Oriol Amat, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.161.0	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable counselors and counselors, deputies, deputies, well, this young man has said points, then I will divide them into two groups: there are seven for one band and there is one for another, huh? Then, the seven to which we would vote yes, among other reasons because in a series of them, therefore, our transactions have been accepted and, therefore, we share them, we would say, the seven that really refer to industrial policy, to business policy, we would vote yes. We believe that they are consistent with what Catalonia's industrial strategy currently brings to an end the Government of the Generality, and it is an industrial strategy that explains that Catalonia today is an economic power. If we take the twenty-eight states of the European Union and between them we set up the autonomous community of Catalonia, so it would be the new number; after eight European states, therefore, Catalonia would be, in this case, an autonomous community, but the new number in GDP per capita. This has many explanations, one of which is a very diversified economy, and one of the keys to this diversification is industry; industry currently accounts for around 20_percent of GDP, which is the European Union's goal for a few years to come. However, the Government of Catalonia has the objective that this 20 reaches a 25_per_cent. This could seem very triumphal, and then it should be remembered that, during the years of the crisis, approximately a part of the Catalan industrial fabric has disappeared; therefore, we cannot pull the bells on the fly. Then, what we would say is: the seven points that make reference to physical capital and intellectual capital– physical capital, therefore, optical fiber, Mediterranean Corridor; the intellectual capital, which is the theme of formation, the centres of Cerca –..., all of them share them; therefore, we will vote yes, eh? And in this sense we thank Congressman Joan García, so the tarann, who has made it easier for these transactions to take place. Well, that's where the punch is, huh? , Point 11, which Deputy Marc Vidal also referred to. At this point in the House it is said that we change, that is to change the Code of consumption, the language legislation, "to ensure the freedom of retaliatory trade. And on this point it should be recalled that the obligations of undertakings on consumers' linguistic rights are set out in Article 34 of the Statute, in Article 128.1 of the Consumer Code, drawn up in accordance with the favourable opinion of the Consulting Council. Then, in relation to this point, go, this Member, and also the group, from Juntes per el Si, we are not to say anything to anyone, but we would certainly encourage the City Group to take out 'the eyes with which they have looked from many years ago, since they were born, the themes related to the català; that is, the eyes and look who is the reality of the català. That certainly the current deputies of Ciutadans do not think like other people of Ciutadans. I'm thinking about Mrs. Punset, València, right? , which made it necessary to recover a minority language« can be very emotional but unhelpful to find employment, eh? I remember, a few months ago, being in Madrid, in a table, so, a acquaintance, in this case one of Ciutadans, huh? , what did he say to me: "How can I be a teacher at a village university? Because Catalan universities were all villages because we only gave classes in Catalan, right? And then I said to him: "Listen, I, basically, to the classes I give them in English. Well, since there were more people there, he was in shock. This congressman didn't fit, did he? Well, then, if you're talking about freedom, I don't know if you know something that's happening right now, which is the next. A Catalan company, currently, that wants to import a product from outside Spain and that enters for the Spanish duana retrieved in Catalan..., the Spanish duana does not let it in, even though it is a product that is only going to come to Catalonia. With the current Spanish legislation, a product that must enter Catalonia, that only has to be marketed in Catalonia and that is in Catalan and not in castle, the Spanish duana does not let it in. This is an issue that affects freedom. Why don't you stay with these fears? Well, then, to end, simply, as I said, the eyes – which surely bear the mark La Reason, ABC, this type of brand – and work together with us, and with all, for three themes: first, to strengthen the English; and, second, related to the motion that you have presented, to combat the two great threats that the industrial fabric actually has. The first is the lack of Mediterranean Corridor – and today we haven't talked much – and second, reducing the cost of energy, which is a 30_per_cent more than that of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.162.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr. Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.163.0	Thank you, President. First of all, to give thanks to all the groups that have worked to try to make us as constructive as possible, and, therefore, we can say that practically of the twelve points a good part have been negotiated, and therefore there was a willingness on the part of Citizens to make this sum; a sum that we have shown in many aspects. That's why I'm surprised, too, so, you know, from Juntas to Yes, they tell us that we have to take our eyes off, right? , the eyes to see what we see from our point of view, but who may also have to remove the eyes to find an agreement or a place in common must be in this case Together for the Yes. We have not spoken at any time of the català as such, but what we were talking about was the real right to choose, a trader or a contractor, in which language he wants to retrieve his establishment. It's very easy to hear. At the end this only happens here. In fact, an article by The Economist the other day, two weeks ago, he talked about it, and they didn't understand how in one part of the European Union this could happen. They're matching product labelling with retaliatory, and using retaliatory trade as a linguistic guarantee, so it's a mistake. Citizens, and, in fact, do..., this deputy, who is speaking in Catalan, is a great defender and a defender of the language that we all share, just as he is a great defender of the language that we all share and that we speak, that is the castle. Therefore, welcome to trilingualism. I can only say this, and thank you for this contribution, but a little more. On the fears that have spread here, so I don't have much time, because, in fact, I'm running out of time, but I do want to say that we appreciate these contributions again, that the fears that have moved away we hope that they will be summarily in the future. And just tell Mr. Botran, so what I thought...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.164.0	Time's up, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.165.0	...returning to the luddism of the 19th century, going to cremate the machines, going to cremate the machines because modernity surpasses us. I think they're wrong about this line.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.166.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.167.0	Yes – yes, yes – President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.168.0	Thank you very much. Call it a vote. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.169.0	Request separate vote from point 11. Thank you. [[Josep Enric Millo and Rocher ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.170.0	Mr. Millo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.171.0	Yes, President; to ask for a separate vote from point 3. [[Albert Botran and Pahissa ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.172.0	Mr. Botran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.173.0	We would like to vote separately 4, 5, 6, 11 and 12. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.174.0	A separate vote has been requested on points 3, 4, 5, 6, 11 and 12. Are there any of these that can be voted together? [[Pause.]] The 4, the 5 and the 6 are able to vote together? [[Pause.]] Yeah? Can 4, 5 and 6 vote together? [[Pause.]] Yeah? Four, five and six? [[Pause.]] All right, then. First we will vote on 3; then 4, 5 and 6; then 11 and 12, and then the rest of the motion. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, 11 and then 12, yes – yes. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, come on. Now we're going to vote number three. The vote begins. It was approved by 124 votes to nine, with no abstentions. We will now vote together on points 4, 5 and 6. The vote begins. They were approved by 124 votes in favour, against and nine abstentions. Now we're voting point number 11. The vote begins. It was rejected by 34 votes in favour, 99 against and no abstentions. Now we're voting point 12. The vote begins. It was approved by 123 votes to 10, with no abstentions. Now we're voting point 12. The vote begins... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, I'm sorry, the rest of the young man. We'll vote for the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into fiscal policy]] [[302-00048/11]] Point 19 is: Motion following the question to the Government on fiscal policy, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Mr. Enric Millo. You know, as always: I'm in a hurry because we have to continue the session. [[Long break.]] Please, just get out. [[Pause.]] Mr. Millo, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.175.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, today we have begun with good news and as no one has referred to the length of today's sitting, so I like it. I'm... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No one mentioned a different group than mine, I mean. [[Rialles.]] And how good news should be remembered, so I like to start this young man... basically because he has a direct relationship with the content of this, right? If not, it would be less justified, wouldn't it? Although you're always good at giving good news. Today, as I say, we had good news, and I'm referring to the employment data, the job market, where we've proven that we have the best data since May 2010, right? May, the data referring to this month of May. Specifically, today we have known that there are 120,000 fewer people at the time in Spain – this is a reduction of 7.6_per_cent per year – and it is also substantially reducing youth, which seems to me to be a significant figure, with a fall of 12.3_per_cent. And this, in Catalonia, means that there are fifteen thousand, almost seven thousand people, practically, to a minimum, with an annual decrease of the 11,6_per_cent. It's a very interesting fact, because the fact that, in Catalonia, today, we still have the refusal to have 470,000 people registered at the time..., it's worth remembering that the year 2012, the generation of 2012, we had 633,000. And so it's obvious that there's a lot of work to do, but it's also very obvious that something is happening to the Spanish economy, and so it's also to the Catalan economy, which allows us to enjoy these data today, which are positive, and I think it's worth it. In the same way, for example, if we refer to the behaviour of social security affiliations, I also believe that there is a very positive fact, that it is this increase of forty-thousand people in the case of Catalonia, and almost a total of 200,000 workers more affiliated to social security this month of May in the conjunct of Spain. This, on an annual basis, means an increase of 440,000 more people affiliated with social security in Spain, and, in Catalonia, it means that there are 107,000 more people. They're dice, I repeat, good, positive, worth remembering. Because, of course, these data have an origin and a consequence, and that's worth remembering. What is the origin of these data? An economic policy of a government, the Government of the People's Party, that allows this economic growth, this recovery and this new creation of occupation. And a consequence: that this allows us to do that our young lady today raises, that is to lower taxes again. The motion that we are presenting today, following the question that I put to the Vice-President and Economic Adviser, the Honourable Oriol Junqueras, on taxation, and which allowed an interesting debate, which, in my opinion, we wanted to agree very much on two main facts, and one is that the fiscal pressure in Catalonia was excessive and that, moreover, there is room to lower taxes, especially on medium and low returns. So, as I say, the honourable Member has a very clear objective that is expressed in the form of two very simple points: to see that Catalans pay more taxes than anyone else and to urge the Generality to correct this situation. And I want to offer them a simple exercise today, but it seems useful to me, doesn't it? I'll read them a very short text and you'll guess who it is. He says: "Citizens in Catalonia today at any income level pay more IRPF than the average of the autonomous communities, and that is true for all income levels: the lower, the middle and the higher. In this comparison Catalonia is always over the middle of autonomous communities. The differences are greater to make them lower, if we only look at the IRPF, but an accurate comparison has to lead us to compare all the taxes that our families bear. And they conclude that, effectively: "It is possible to lower fiscal pressure in Catalonia. They're not my words. If they were mine someone could say, "Of course, it's the PP's, you know, always talking about lowering taxes, right? They are the words of President Puigdemont at the opening of the economic meeting last week in Sitges, and therefore I am convinced that, finally, the Members of the Group of Joints for Yes will ratify the words of the President, because if they did not do so they would be voting against the same opinion of the President of the General and clearly disauthorizing him. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the door of an important debate of assumptions. We've seen the project, though, out there! There is one issue we cannot know at this time: it is as if as a result of the negotiations that are being held behind closed doors with the CUP Group there will be a novelty that can involve a push of taxes or not in the bill. I don't know if this will force or condition Junts' voting position for the Yes in this motion, because, if it wasn't that way, we would obviously have to agree, as long as...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.176.0	Mr. Millo, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.177.0	...the reality is what I have just said, and it is what its president has also publicly expressed for all Catalans and Catalans. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.178.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Millo. [[Some applause.]] Then, in order to defend the presented message, Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.179.0	Thank you, President. Well, then, the truth is, Mr. Millo, we had doubts in my group about whether to submit papers, because, of course, it was a task to the totality that we had to do. In fact, it was already clear yesterday in the debate about the proposition of law that Catalonia Yes that it is Pot presented in relation to the tax of successions and donations. But, well, in the end, we decided to make them because you make it clear that their project and ours, so they have nothing to do with it and we don't agree on what it does with fiscal policy. First you spent three minutes talking about how good the economy and Spain was and, lastly, the occupation, etc. But you always see that Spain is the OECD country with the most inequality, where inequality grows and where the poor... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, we are now the richest country in the world; yes, of course. [[Widow's remorse.]] Listen to me, read the OECD reports, read the reports of Intermon Oxfam...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.180.0	Please, respect the word tower; please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.181.0	No, they don't respect him because... Read the reports from the World Bank and see the levels of inequality that Spain has and how it is one of the OECD countries that increases inequality the most. But it's the same, you always see that, but I don't want to go in there either; it's the same. The only finding they make is that Catalans pay a lot of taxes. Miri, the Catalans in the middle classes and the working class, in the lower classes... because those in the upper classes don't pay taxes. I remind you, Mr. Millo, that you came to the government and increased VAT and IRPF – VAT and IRPF –, you make work, and VAT, an indirect tax that pays everyone the same way, earn more or less. I told you the other day. So don't pay all Catalans the same – don't pay all Catalans the same. And I remind you that when you got to the government too, so you approved a tax amnesty because those people who took the money out, so you can get them back paying a lot less than what we pay for the job. Therefore, man, the truth is that it costs us a little to listen to him here when he goes to say: "It's all right; thanks to the politics of the People's Party, therefore, Spain has improved, it has lowered the weather, which has obviously dropped because the economic situation of the world, not only of Spain, therefore, is in another situation; but the case is that you are still asking for the same: continue asking for taxes to be lowered. And we say, "Yes, let the impostors bow down to the lower, but let them turn to the greater fortunes, let them turn to those who have more. And that's what doesn't happen, that's what you don't want, and so you don't want us to have more tickets to be able to redistribute in a better way and there's less inequality in Catalonia and Spain. And they're proving it, so, with their policies. We have made a statement to the totality – as I say – because what we want to make clear is that who is making a greater effort from the beginning of the crisis are the middle classes and workers, because they are weighing more and more labor yields each day and much less on wealth and wealth. Therefore, here, therefore, you have a quite different view of the People's Party from us. And then, we had plans to improve the fees for those that they have most, as I say: taxation of estates and donations; taxation of assets; analyzing and reviewing the tax benefits that are returned – that there are many – in Catalonia, they are accounted for, according to the Law of Presumptions, in 10,000_million euros and, therefore, we believe that there is margin here. And then a clear fight against tax fraud and labor fraud, which is pretty oblivious, for all we know, in this country. Listen, Catalonia is a 1-million-hour fan of hours outside the week. If, in reality, we put all the emphasis and all the will, probably here more than regularizing work situations, we would also regularize many tax situations. Therefore, we have a very different view, we believe that we must make a greater effort those who have the most and those who earn the most. This was not clearly the policy of the People's Party, but neither was the policy of the Government of the Generality in these past years. First why they agreed with you from 2012, and then why Esquerra Republicana – we will see if the CUP... –, therefore, it has not been able to influence so much on Democratic Convergence as because there has been an increase in taxes that make those who have the most, and therefore, wealth and wealth. We'll see – see – after, then, these conversations with the UPC if we can get this changed. But, in any case, we cannot give support in any way to your plans, our papers are a goal to the totality. And, well, let's hope that it doesn't come because at the end of it it generates fewer tickets and above all a very, very important social injustice because we end up paying all the time... they end up paying all the time, ending up making the effort, working people, the people who have less and the people who surely also earn less or don't earn anything, because they're in a situation of unemployment. Because I do not forget it: it is true, they have improved the data that today we have presented ourselves but we still have 4_million in Spain, that it is not a cipher either to throw at them or to party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.182.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then, to fix his position, has the words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I got Carlos Carrizosa, huh? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.183.0	Thank you, Madam President. So, it's true that the data for today are positive and we must all congratulate each other, but it is also true that we are about to be sanctioned for the European Union with 4,000_million, precisely for a subject that has much more to do with the proposal and with the reason that it was brought here today. Miri, some parties make the rise or fall of taxes a key issue, I would dare say that a dogmatic issue. It is not the case of Citizens, our goal is not to raise or lower taxes, our goal is to ensure the sustainability and efficiency of public finances. And that is indeed the objective, but our starting point is to consider that the main fiscal problem in Spain and, therefore, also in Catalonia, is unemployment. Yes, I want to highlight what, the main problem that Catalonia and Spain have, the main fiscal problem, is unemployment. If in Spain and Catalonia we had an equivalent unemployment rate, comparable to the rest of Europe, i.e. situated around 10, 11_per_cent, it turns out that Spain would become in a situation of budgetary surplus, besides structural, not cyclical; structural. Therefore, you will understand the importance for us of the fight against unemployment, eh? , promoting employment in Catalonia and Spain. That is why, and not on the other hand, our economic proposals are always aimed at three objectives: one, creating employment; two, increasing the productivity of our companies; and three, increasing competition in key sectors such as energy. The priority of all our proposals is the implementation of a sustained growth model that will create jobs, reduce unemployment and improve our public finances on a permanent basis. But the consolidation and improvement of our public finances means something else. First, to rationalize spending, i.e. to spend and invest better. Secondly, to establish a more equitable and effective tax system that focuses much more on collection than on rates. There's an obsession with guys when actually what we have is to fix us a lot more, put a lot more focus on collecting. And third, to decisively boost the fight against tax fraud. Only the greater growth, the rationalization of expenditure, the elimination of duplication, the reduction of tax fraud would actually reduce the fiscal deficit. But Citizens want to lower taxes. It precisely wants to do so for people and families with less income, and with more precarious wages and working conditions. Precisely why we are going to do it, we are determined to do so, precisely with the tax..., with the guaranteed wage supplement, a negative tax that, as you know, implies a tax income for those people who need it most. With this measure, we also encourage employment, a genuine obsession for citizens, and we will lower taxes on people and families with lower incomes, thus favoring the progressive fiscal system. The People's Party has brought us a motion that I would call it 'filling motion'. In fact, it is poorly elaborated; it is limited to describing a reality: that in Catalonia there are many own tributes and that the types are also very high; therefore, an obviousness. But, Members of the People's Party, nothing tells us about aspects that are relevant and that would have to accompany the motion. What are the proper tributes they would like to eliminate? What percentage reduction would apply to current rates: two, three, five? Simply and sincerely, it seems to us to be a rather poor, rather flabby proposal. For these reasons, our position will be abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.184.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The words of Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.185.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Millo, you know we've known each other for a long time, and I've almost got to have him. [[relays]] Maybe that's why I'm telling you that you can pass it on to those who write in prose, but you still don't know. I don't know if you've been fixed, but for the work of this young man, you've used the eleven principles of a well-known author's propaganda. I want to remind you of some of these principles: "the principle of simplification and the one enemy – I don't do this language a priori, do I? I'm doing it because I found them this way. "Principles of transposition: load on the opponent his own mistakes or defects. I just quote a few, huh? "Principle of orchestration: propaganda should be limited to a small number of ideas and repeat them tirelessly. If a lie repeats itself enough, it turns into truth. So, well, why did I say that? Home, because today you see us precisely with the book of propaganda on fiscal policy and you say to us: "The Catalans pay a lot. So, no, Mr. Millo; the data says that neither Catalans nor Spaniards, so, in general, pay a lot of taxes. The proof is that you know that we have tax receipts that are 8_percent of GDP less than the European average; 80,000_million euros less than the European Union average. Certainly, the equivalent in Catalonia is 16,000_million. The tax deficit in social claus, to hear us, if we use these magic figures. Second poisoning that you repeatedly use when talking about tax policy issues, and it's Catalans. I said it yesterday and I'm going back to say it today, Catalans are nothing; Catalans are people who have social class, Catalans are people who cover the minimum interprofessional wage and Catalans are the person who the other day to Mr Junqueras at the Circle of Economy asked him: "Do you think I'm rich? I charge 200,000 euros a month, I have five girls, I have to pay for the school concert, private health care and a pension fund for the future and the state does not know how much. Do you think I should be taxed? All these are Catalans. And obviously, before the tax system, they all have a profoundly different treatment. Did you agree with the little difference in your approach to the Convergence Democrática de Catalunya? It's exactly the same: Catalans, Spanishs, no classes, no social interests. I am not surprised, because you have been building – among others, but above all with the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, when CiU is said – the tax system of this country. With one difference: that when you..., when those of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia come here they say to him: "The fault is of those. As Mr Rajoy makes decisions in Europe and up in Spain, he says, "It's the Europeans' fault. No, no, if you were the one who made the decision. Third important question, from this perspective. I hope – I hope – that the principle of popularization of the propaganda manual does not triumph, which consists in always talking to that language that is able to reach those people who follow the principle of the propaganda manual have less ability to hear certain things. Because you always insist on one issue: Catalans are interested in paying less taxes. So, no, listen, there's a very important, very important part of the citizenry that doesn't serve you as anything that will give you 1_per_cent or 2 taxes if it turns out that you don't serve social services. To some, to whom you defend, with the interests that you defend, it is possible that they are interested that there are no more taxes or that they are reduced, because they guarantee assets sufficient to maintain a private insurance system, for a double list of expectations; they have a system to hold pension funds and there is no need to be pending pensions and the social security system. Certainly, I end, if there is any situation at these moments worrying our country is the situation of the social security system. And for that, you are primarily responsible. They have imposed a labour market model that gives the following circumstance: the occupation grows by 3_per_cent, but the entries only grow exactly by 1.5_per_cent, 17,000_million deficit in 2015, when it should have been stabilized, according to Mr. Montoro. And the same is about to pass the year 2016. You've cleared 60,000_millions of the reserve fund; 2018 year won't be there, and while you're talking about lowering taxes. And social security, who's gonna pay for it? Of course you don't care about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.186.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.187.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Before we begin, send a hug from here to the people of the Frente Polisario and convey the condol for the death of Mohamed Abdelaziz. About the young man, again, like yesterday, in the bill on the reform of the estate tax... today is a perverse debate, which we consider to be false. So, like yesterday, we're going to do a more general reflection again. Since the 1980s, a new cycle has been imposed in which international economic policy has been dominated by four elements: the deregulation of financial markets, the disinvestment in social policies, the erosion of labour rights and a regressive taxation. The combination of these factors has degraded the mechanisms of cohesion and equity, and the growing inequality that hatches with the col·lapse of the 2008 system and the subsequent economic and financial crisis. The situation is not the same as everything else; there are countries, usually with good economic development, where inequality is lower and fiscal pressure is higher and especially more progressive. Public finances, which provide both the structure of admissions and the distribution of public expenditure, are decisive for equity, solidarity and, therefore, in relation to the inequalities of a particular society. The protection of human rights requires the availability of public resources to finance institutions and basic services, which are necessary in order to guarantee human rights. In this sense, taxation can have a great impact on inequalities; the redistributive function of taxes takes on a special relevancy in the current context, where almost half of the wealth is in the hands of the '1_per_cent of the world population. Without addressing politically the injustice that supposes that one part of the private fortunes and the benefits of large enterprises continue to make their accounts worse in tax havens and that another part of the fortunes are grouped into legal forms that exempt them from their fiscal obligations, it is not only not that they have not dealt with this, but also that they have taken decisive steps because those who have orchestrated the excesses that have led to the crisis assume the responsibilities. On the contrary, the banks that financed them have been rescued with the money of everyone and everyone. In seeking the presuppositional balance through the rationalisation of expenditure instead of the increase in inflows, the state governments and the catalá have subordinated the rights and welfare of the population to the interests of the market and capital; they have focused public policies on economic variables in place of doing so on people, thus not fulfilling their responsibility as guarantors of a life worthy of the whole population and demonstrating the lack of compromise with the struggle for equity and with a null vision of the future, since the cost of not investing in social policies is far greater than the medium and long term. Returning to the youth, it is not a matter of reducing taxes, as it is always, all the contrary, to capture the evolution of our tax system, that each time it is more return and more insufficient. Tax policy actions on the part of different governments in general respond to the same orientation: reducing direct taxes and increasing indirect taxes, as was already the case with this Faristol. Who has benefited from these reforms is not the majority of the citizenry, but a part of society, the wealthiest, that each time contributes less to the support of the social state. What is clear to us is that tax cuts always benefit higher returns, returns from capital and higher assets and lead to an increase in inequalities. Therefore, and as it was more than obvious, we would vote that not the entire House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.188.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mrs Maria Senserrich, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.189.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, well, first, before going into detail in the motion, I think it is convenient, given the poti-poti of speeches there has been and of different themes, to focus on the debate itself of fiscal policy, and therefore a global view of the structure of taxes to Catalonia to hear what the People's Party brings us today. Of the tributes to Catalonia, there are the props and the surrenders, given for the Spanish State. From these we have a part that is the ones that give us the recap and a part that takes back the Spanish State. From the surrenders that the State collects, because we all understand it, there would be the IRPF, the VAT, the special taxes, and that's 80_percent of the tax receipts. Of the taxes we receive from the Government of Catalonia, we have that of heritage transmissions, inheritances and donations, heritage, and this represents little more than 2,000_million euros. Of the appropriate taxes, known as ‘proper', which is basically the subject of this motion, because it speaks to us of the fact that the appropriate taxes are the highest among all the groups of communities, etc., as this motion says, not above 100_million euros– we are discussing a 1_percent of what they represent, of the total of the tax receipts–; taxes so that among them the record that there is the tax on stays in tourist establishments, created a few years ago with the benefit of the People's Party, that it amounts to 43_million euros for Catalan finances, or the tax on empty habitats, wrongly used by the Spanish Government of the People's Party, and that, curiously, at the same time, it is the President of the People's Party and the President of the European Parliament. In fact, you, with this young man, focus primarily, as you said, on the appropriate tributes, a 1_percent of what the entries represent by question of the tributes of the generality's arches. In change, his parents, from Madrid, limit their taxes, constantly resorting to the Constitutional Court. What? So, for example, we are talking about more than €880_million; against €100_million that they want to bring us here to discuss now, €880_million that, because of the People's Party, Catalans and Catalans would no longer have; like, for example, the tax on credits, which means more than €688_million that we would have and that we would not have because of an appeal that you have made, your political party. Like the gods, propos; 100_million euros, we come to discuss here, when, for example, the return of the negative liquidations of 2008 and 2009, for a mistake of the Spanish Government, will suppose us for the finances of 2016 124_million euros. Curious, this waffle ball, huh? Or, for example, we might have to discuss the financing model more quickly, which has expired since 2014, rather than discussing the appropriate taxes. And the problem is that you don't do or let it happen: neither do you, because you obviously don't understand that a new funding model has to be made, nor let you use the Constitutional Court constantly preventing the lack of fiscal capacity in this Parliament. And today you want to talk about tax pressure. Yes, you were the ones who pushed the taxes, the year 2010, and if we count the money that the Spanish Government collected from 2010 to 2014 with the increase in VAT and the IRPF we are talking about having additional tickets of more than EUR 23,000_million. From these, do you know how many have you seen, the Government of the Government of Catalonia? Zero. I am mistaken: we have had to pay the corresponding share of VAT. And now, that's right, huh? , elections arrive on the 20th of December past, taxes are lowered. And it turns out they're down now, too, huh, say? Or I felt something like that, a rum-rum of these running, that you'd lower taxes again. Look, I'd only ask one thing from the Lords of the People's Party, less frivolity. And from Junts to Yes we ask them to let us do it. Many thanks, President, Councillor, Councillor, Members, Members. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.190.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Mr. Enric Millo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.191.0	Thank you, President. Well, I understand you're upset, right? Things are what they are. They explain to you that things are going well, and that there is a merit attributable solely and exclusively to a government that has made economic policies over the past four years that are conducive to wealth creation, economic growth and job creation, which bothers them very much. So, look, to all people who like it, for this benefit, don't bother people. I don't know who all of you represent, do I? But it's obvious that most Catalans and Spaniards who start seeing the light at the end of the tunnel, all of which I explained before they didn't bother people. And when I speak and the People's Parliamentary Group talks about lowering taxes – the IRPF, especially, and others – to middle and lower returns – I repeat: lowering taxes to middle and lower returns – what do you mean by that? What do you mean, then, by the speeches of the powerful and the rich and all these stories? They're loaded with damage – loaded with damage. Down to Earth, toss from a few to the ground, read the papers. Madam representing Juntes for the Yes, listen, the point is very clear: it speaks of reducing the number of taxes that we have fifteen – who has more, then, Andalusia, who has eight; the rest of them have two or four, or yes, what is more – lower the number of taxes that we have and lower the types to the rest of the taxes, all the rest. What's that I don't understand, huh? All the rest of the taxes. Gentlemen of the UPC, I am no longer surprised, because they are full of prejudices and make a speech spent, old, old, that has nothing to do with the reality of a parliamentary group, of a political party, that is defending the interests of mid- and low returns. Lord of Ciutadans, you say: "This is flojillo. Man, what's flojillo is not to be clear that what's right now is to lower taxes; this is what's flojillo, huh? What's going on, that, of course? [[some applause]] , just as you also resent all this because in some way it highlights the benefits of the PP government's fiscal policy, so this bothers you, doesn't it? And, gentlemen, Mr. Coscubala, let me tell you, the principles of propaganda, I consider myself a modest student. You're the master of this, you've given lessons of all this, haven't you? And, therefore, in any case, I thank you for clarifying it. And only to end, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party – I finish, President; your clemency, I accept it, right? – of course, the reality of the data is what it is. Spain in these moments leads the economic growth in Europe, is above the middle of equality at the OECD joint. Moreover, you know that when the Socialist Party ruled the fiscal pressure on the big companies was effective it was 4_per_cent; now it's 12. Besides, you took out the estate tax, it wasn't the People's Party, and then you took it back...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.192.0	Mr. Millo...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.193.0	The one who passes, who bothers them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.194.0	I've had a lot of leniency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.195.0	...and with this end, that the People's Party creates occupation and in change the Socialist Party, in some of the rights of Spain, the one that does...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.196.0	Mr. Millo!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.197.0	...is to take advantage of the help of the ups and downs. Thank you, President. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.198.0	Thank you very much. [[Some applause and remorse of voices.]] We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We are going to vote together for the whole motion, because no separate vote has been asked for. Okay? [[Pause.]] Therefore, we are going to vote together for the whole motion. The vote begins. It was rejected by 9 votes in favour, 95 against and 25 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the deployment of Law 10/2015, in vocational training and qualification]] [[302-00049/11]] The twenty-first item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on the deployment of the Law 10/2015, in professional training and qualification, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word the lady Esther Niubó. [[Long break.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.199.0	All right, one moment. [[Pause.]] Well, thank you, President. Today we present a motion with the main objective of promoting the deployment of the Vocational Training and Qualification Law, complementing the planned timetable; if it can be, try to advance it, and above all ensure the necessary funding. From the outset I apologize, because a long enough young man has come out of us, as you must have seen, who deals with issues related to this deployment, to the integration of subsystems, who we believe must overcome the traditional lack of coordination between the Teaching and Work departments, and integrated into the corresponding skills, with the necessary skills. And we're also talking about the structure of this one government, so we didn't want to reopen the debate on its adscription, which we understand was exceeded by the broad political consensus achieved at the time of the approval of the law, the result of negotiations where we gave way, and therefore we did not accept the CUP statements that raised this issue. We are also talking about the formative part, and I will now refer to it, and we propose to draw up a standard framework that rules the right and dues of people in practice and learning from the enterprises that acquit them, and the conditions that must be completed both by the formative centres and the enterprises, in the dual system, and of alternation, according to social agents to avoid precisely the abuses of work. We also include an end-of-transparency section, to provide us with evaluation indicators, to ensure data publication in order to be able to follow it properly and to improve transparency with the participation of the agents involved. That's a big deal. But I'd like to highlight a few questions. We ask regularly and apply before the end of the year 2017, which is when planned, the system of scholarships and aids, basically to provide guarantees of fairness in the system; also to ensure the deployment, before ending this year, of specific itineraries post-compulsory for people with disabilities and the necessary endowment to increase the number of places and expand the training offer as required by families to overcome the historical gap, and it is a point that we expect to approve and be pleased. [[Widow's remorse.]] In the formative claus we are talking about expanding...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.200.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.201.0	... the public offer of quality of vocational training, a demand that is continued, every time more justified, see the mismatch between the FP and the baccalaureate-university itinerary, and mainly of medium degree, that are the most solicitous and at the same time as we have. I want to remind you that in Catalonia we have a 9_percent of intermediate qualifications in vocational training compared to the 33_percent of average that the OECD has. To extend, say, the public offer of quality and guarantee its gratuity by adopting measures to improve the rate of graduation and reduce the cost of abandonment, still high mass, or low qualification; to reduce the ratio of the system to prioritise resources to enable strengthening the docent cos and to make possible the duplications; individualized attention, and to develop a continuous and continuous training plan of the system's faculty. We also want to end the injustice that supposes that only the excellent baccalaureate students can benefit from the free tuition and not those who come from a higher degree of professional training. And we also need to improve the integration of information services, guidance and advice to ensure a single, permanent, coordinated process that facilitates labour, educational and training transitions, and helps reduce early school drop-out, and improve the coordination of these services between compulsory and post-compulsory educations to avoid what is going on, so that many students of ESO with school children do not complete middle-level studies. A key point that we need is to draw up a training offer map, training needs, qualifications, and above all to do so with the participation of local and social and economic agents in the territory, which we believe is a key collaboration. From a work perspective, incorporate SOC into the accreditation system and improve coordination between this system and active employment policies. And in the area of rights assurance, ensure the free performance of the competency assessment and accreditation service, and recognize the dedication of the centre staff to the accreditation of skills or title validation, enabling a specific item to effect. It gave the principle that the idea is to develop a standard_frame to regulate rights and rights. And finally, a very important issue in order to ensure equal opportunities and promote job reintegration, which is to guarantee the resources allocated to the FP for employment, especially for unemployed workers, thus anticipating the necessary resources and ensuring an economic liquidation of the shippers much more quickly than it is now producing. We think it is a good proposal; we have tried to make it complete, and we would like you to approve of a system that deserves a system that, unlike other countries around us, has not yet reached the levels of social prestige of other teachings. Therefore, we want you to be used to re-launch the FP of this country; to facilitate access to quality training, such as progress, employability; to prevent social exclusion; to promote equal opportunities, and also to strengthen an incipient economic recovery and model change. I do want to end up thanking the deputies especially of Junts for the Yes – the Ramona –, of Ciutadans, of the CUP, having submitted papers and their willingness to reach agreements so that the proposal prospers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.202.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Niubó. Next, the words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.203.0	Well, thank you, President. Thank you. The position of the CUP is based on the fact that with the approval of the Law of Vocational Training and Qualification of Catalonia is created the Public Agency of Vocational Training and Qualification. Bearing in mind that we are against this agency, as our first step towards outsourcing and privatizing the public service of professional training and qualification is to be seen as the first step towards our creation, from which a position is derived for which we cannot gather a good part of the young person. In addition, the departmental adscript of this public agency remains pending. It is necessary, and in this line we have made statements that have not been accepted by the group proposing, for the Socialist Group, that the Public Training and Qualification Agency be attached to the Department of Education. It cannot be accepted in any way that the Government moves the gravity center of the FP, with the new law, of the Department of Education to the Department of Presidency or Business and occupation. The FP has an educational and above all academic professional component that can only be guaranteed from the Education Department. And, for us, this point is so fundamental, as we say, that it determines in such a way what the FP will end up feeling, that the fact that it has not been collected in the motion makes me miss feeling to gather it in general. With some exceptions that we then detail. We have submitted reports that have been collected, in the sense that the basic services, the network centers of the system and the set of activities, services and professional training and qualification programs of this law are promoted and supported with public funds, and that they must rotate over the public FP centers of the Department of Education. So, in this case, we would pick up this point. We will also vote in favour of the point in which another point of ours has come together and which refers to professional information and guidance; it must be linked to the FP, it must be shared with the public educational centres and it must have the human and economic resources necessary to guarantee its quality, in accounts of, therefore..., contrasting it to outsourcing or privatization. Finally, therefore, we will also vote in favour of the pilot test for the specific mandatory itineraries for persons with disabilities and the necessary presuppositional endowment. But, as we have said, we cannot generally gather a motion that does not reverse the enrolment of the FP to the Department of Education, since it opens the door to the enterprise and to the privatization of the FP, separates the FP from the education world and will extend the studentship of the FP from the integral formation and to be able to fulfil the skills and key competences that would be guaranteed, therefore, with the inscription that we propose to the Department of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.204.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Next, has the word "Mrs. Ramona Barrufet", of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.205.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, ladies and gentlemen, in the world where we live the benefits of knowledge, they become more and more critical for competitiveness and the well-being of the people; technology, innovation, productivity are key factors of progress, production and occupation. Today, in a country that engages in the knowledge society, it is necessary to give answers to those who need to increase the level of qualification of people. Vocational training is a decisive factor in our global positioning. That's how I started a year ago, last July, my intervention in the presentation of the Law of Formation and Qualification of Catalonia, the first law that I took charge of and satisfaction with being a rapporteur. And he kept saying that what they claim this law is to lay the foundations of the future's professional formation. The formation must give response to the needs of people, businesses, territories – and remarcations – of the territories, which I will comment on – and of the productive sectors; it must be a long-term formation. We are before a young man, who presents the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, on the deployment of the law; an extensive, accurate motion, on which there are questions of deployment and questions of concreteness about the same law; a motion that we appreciate, as we also appreciate the availability of the group that presented it, by Mrs Esther Niubó, with a hope of better, of concreteness, and we appreciate, especially – also, the collaboration of the other groups – because I respond to the hope that there was in the law, of all the groups, and the work, and so on, of those groups that in the end, for different reasons, did not end up voting it. It is, therefore, in the hope of all improving it and making its deployment. And I say this precisely because the requests of the young man speak, above all, of advancing in different dates the timetables of the deployment of the law. We have presented reasoned statements for two aspects: if we base ourselves on the deployment calendar, there is actually a lag in the timing; for one band, the law was challenged for the ministry on July 20 and a negotiation procedure was opened that ended on December 22, 2015; therefore, this law consists of 19 February 2016, which alters the calendar. On the other hand, all the electoral processes that encouraged the law. That said, we think that the ideas that we have presented, and that we have worked together, give it an effective development. Not having a lot of time – as always to the motions – but other issues that we present at different points go in the line of maintaining the loyalty of the law nomenclature, to adapt, therefore, to which we all agreed. We also presented a message at point 9 on the routes. We have asked that FP's rates be suitable, and we want to point out that talking about declining rates in vocational training is not the same as talking about it in primary or secondary education. In vocational training, a reduction in rates – since the groups are already subdivided into two groups to practice, and there are two teachers per course –, what causes the territory is that there is a decrease in the offer. Lowering the rates, the territory cannot be given the same offers. We'd be out of the thousands of students system. We remember that students are not just students of a primary school and a secondary school who continue to be compulsory, but they are all people who want to train in the country. That is why the territories, for us, are important and we will not vote for this point. We also want to strengthen, therefore, the pilot plan that has been done above all for the Leu-moderate reduction collection, because it is an important novelty and in which we all worked because we appeared to the law, and, since it is a new implantation, a new curriculum, we want to give it the importance it deserves and, therefore, it has to be analyzed cursively. The training offer, of course, we keep it; and we increase it, and in this concrete offer, innovative for this collection, we increase the donated offer to four years. There are also some points that talk about the SOC, and obviously I don't have time to spell them out, only that in a we have presented a message that has not been accepted, at the 19th, that we will also vote against it. The rest of the House will vote in favour, but not the point of the elections, I have already said: the territory is as important as it is because we do not admit from the beginning a reduction in the offer for a reduction in the number of elections to vocational training. And, said that, they ask for a separate vote, President, on item 9 and item 19. All right, all right, Thank you, president, councillor, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.206.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Barrufet. Next, has the word Ms. Laura Vílchez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.207.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors..., vocational training is the eternal subject pending in Spain, something in which we have always failed. In Catalonia, Law 10/2015 involved a great effort and a great advance towards the search for a better productive and educational model. Ciutadans bets on a dual formation, which is a model of success in many European countries, and from that perspective we have made some amendments to the motion that is before us today to the Socialist Party. We also thank Congresswoman Esther Niubó for taking them into account. Get fit, optimize resources and be efficient to be able to balance supply with demand, both geographically and sectorally. A plural and specialized offer that is able to equip the technical staff, above all of medium degree, that demand the companies to be able to offer in turn stable jobs and adjusted to the educational and technical level of these students. Because, unfortunately, we have more university graduates than companies can absorb, and yet we have a clear shortage of technicians, especially medium-sized ones, that companies need. On the other hand, we have unskilled workers with a long work experience who need somehow to be able to certify it. Finally, I should like to mention the importance of accompanying and guiding these young people. For all this, in Catalonia, last June 19th Law 10/2015 was passed, in formation and professional qualification, and this motion speaks of this law. A good law, a law more than necessary, a law providing for mechanisms that would help to adapt curricula of training cycles ranging from initial and dual training to training for occupation and continuing training. A good law that would ensure an increase in the number of vocational students; a good law, which would constitute a public agency that would integrate all cycles in a coordinated manner, in order to increase the number of graduates and thereby reduce the drop-out from school. A good law that, like so many others, there it is: in a drawer and waiting for its moment. The motion before us is basically an appeal to dedust it. A motion with bold points, such as those calling for the deadlines that this same law contains, or the commitments contained in the Government Agreement 143/2015, signed on 1 September by the then Secretary of the Government, Mr Jordi Baiget. For the amendments we have seen that Junts pel Yes, we see that we will not have a regulation in the short term, nor will we have, for the time being, a public training agency, a professional qualification. The system of scholarships for the next course will not be paid in time because obviously budgetary appropriations will not allow it, this is not. They may think that we can wait, that covering this hole that would facilitate the insertion or reintegration of many people into the labour market, or that would fuel economic and social growth can be done calmly. That must be because, if not, it is not understood that such laws, which would make life easier for citizens, especially those that give answers to vulnerable groups, with special need for regulation, remain in stand by. In short, we thank the PSC that in some respects they have not lowered the level of demand, and we ask the Government to comply for once with the laws and motions that are approved here, that they are efficient, because, as I have told you before, not everything and it is not always a question of money, sometimes it is a question of getting off that ship in the drift on which they are going and stopping just to think. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.208.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vílchez. Then there's the word "Jessica Albiach", by Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it's Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.209.0	Good afternoon. To advance that we will vote in favour of this motion presented by the PSC, all that we think leaves out two questions that we think are important and that should be, such as the agency's adscript and who has the competence to believe the qualification. That said, we are convinced that in order to bind them to professional training the key role that draws them close to social dialogue, to seek consensus and to include the participating bodies both union representatives, families, students, teachers and other members of the educational community that are not currently participating. Now we have the opportunity to fix the garrison and the discoordination that exists between the Departments of Work and Teaching. Now we have the opportunity to offer a decentralized professional formation that overcomes the territorial imbalances in Catalonia. Now we can plan a map of centres and specialities relating the offer to the future industrial fabric and the characteristics of each territory, now we can shield a public system of professional training. At these times, there are no public centers in the consortium and we have an offer of 40 and 50 per cent between the private and the concerta. And now we can also end the precariousness of the faculty and return their rights, since the percentage of provisionality they suffer is between 30 and 35_percent. We see that the problems currently facing vocational training are many but it seems – and it seems – that there is a will to solve them, yes. It could be done in a democratic and useful way for the citizenry and end up with absurd situations like that there are students of divided years who have finished the middle degree and have to wait and lose a year in order to be able to test the access and tender years in order to be able to access the higher degree. We must ensure that this new vocational training is not undermined by LOMCE or a neo-liberal view of the training, we must overcome the conditions of social class and gender, we must include new specializations, and we must be free. Current taxes are turning into an access barrier – every time more – to vocational training and are driving the most vulnerable out of the system, as always. The new law has to be used to motivate young people, as has already been mentioned, to reconnect with education all those people who, for an economic, social situation, for a school failure, came out of the education system. Now we have to re-engage them and re-engage in the system, we have to prestige and give a title to the people who carry so many years of working and pulling into this country and they don't have a title that they believe, we have to offer professional recycling to people who are in action, and we also have to offer a professional release to people who are in the middle of the day. And for this, it is essential to allocate resources, to make curricula more flexible, to give a lot of importance – as my companies have already commented – to guidance and advice, and, above all, to be vigilant to avoid job abuse and segregation centres falsely named as second opportunity. And finally, there are those who look to the future agency with mistrust because it could be a possible step towards the privatization and outsourcing of professional training. We, part of my group at a certain point in time voted against it, we will vote in confidence this time. Let's hope that you don't follow this step towards outsourcing and privatization, but say that we'll be very careful that this doesn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.210.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Next, the words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.211.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, counsel, deputies, deputies, the wealth of nations is not under the ground, he is in institutions that encourage freedom and opportunities, and he is in the human capital, in a good formation, in education. And as you all know, one of the main problems of the Catalan and Spanish education system is the substantially lower name of students who attend vocational training, if we compare it to other countries around the world, we don't talk about Germany anymore. This lack of our system is one of the main causes of a low mass occupation among young people and a better competitiveness of our economy. So, in this debate, a strategic question for the future of our society and for a whole generation, and we thank the Socialist MP, Mrs Niubó, who today has allowed us to do this debate, who has put this issue on the table. It is key for the People's Party to offer more opportunities and more vital options to young people, to offer more itineraries taking into account the diversity of desires, abilities and talent. And all these routes have to have another level of quality. We believe that students must be the center of the education system, training in skills from the development of individual talents and potentialities must be the objective that guides the planning and development of education. So, we think we need to make every effort to revitalize and appreciate the option of professional learning. This has to be one of our priorities, it's one of the challenges we face as a society, since it's this option, in relation to the countries of our environment, one of the historical fables of our system. It is clear that the quality of vocational training, as well as its need to link it to the professional and labour world, is only achieved by appropriate academic and practical training, closely linked to the business and production world. Today the People's Party will vote in favour of this young man, in favour of all his points. There are many points and, while sometimes some of them are very generic and it seems that they simply encourage the Generality to work, to do the work that touches it, it is worth doing because we are seeing the Catalan Government, so there is still a little respect for those issues that are substantial for the future of the Catalans, and it is important that since this Parliament the Government is shaken and encouraged to deploy the Law of Vocational Training and Qualification; that it applies the system of grants and aids of the integrated system; that it determines a single government in this matter to solve the current problem of discoordination between the departments; that it elaborates the plan of accreditation and professional qualification of the more economic and social agents, that it determines a single government in this matter to solve the current problem of decoordination between the departments; that it elaborates the curriculum and qualification of the more economic and social agents, that it determines that the theoretical and practical delivery of the theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, and theoretical, theoretical, and theoretical, theoretical, and theoretical, theoretical, and theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, and theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, and theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, and theoretical, theoretical, and theoretical, and theoretical, and theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, and theoretical, and theoretical, theoretical, theoretical, and theoretical, theoretical, and theoretical, theoretical, and theoretical, and theoretical.. The Government of the Generality must also be encouraged to reduce the rates to the extent that it is possible to improve the teaching conditions, but it is also clear that the quality and training of the teacher is absolutely essential. And we must reward academic excellence, merit, too – you said – in vocational training. It hardly goes – badly goes – a company when it has an administration that pays the expenses to the okupes and gets rid of those enrollment students. In short, the People's Party will give support to this movement and we will join in promoting measures to improve vocational training. Before Mr. Millo said it: the youthful weather dropped a 12,4_per_cent in the past year to Spain, it's a date we've heard today and it's great news for everyone. The Government of Spain has made the reforms that are taking place; it has put in place the necessary tools to help young people. Now what's left is that the Government of Catalonia is also doing this work, that it is also doing the reforms that are going down and that are standing next to those young people, that people who want to train and who want to work and are disengaged and stopped subsidizing and protecting the occupations and the anti-systems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.212.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Milián. Then, in order to pronounce on the papers, has the word "Miss Niubó".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.213.0	Well, thank you very much. I want to thank Junts for the Yes especially, so the effort to negotiate, the willingness to reach an agreement. There are some concrete questions as to why it wasn't possible, right? On the issue of reduction of ration, which obviously, therefore, involves strengthening faculty, or anticipating resources allocated to the FP for the occupation addressed to unemployed workers, but in other important points yes, and we want to thank them. Also in Ciutadans, for the good predisposition, to enrich the text in the apartment of scholarships and aids, of curricula; also in the apartment of transparency. Similarly, at the CUP, we have coincided in a few points, yes in relation to the centrality of public centers in the system. Appreciate the explicit support they have given to the topic of specific itineraries for people with disabilities. And also – I already said to the initial intervention – we did not want to, although we know that there is a campaign that is taking place on the subject of adscript, we did not want to break the consensus, that it was already very complicated at the time of making the law and, therefore, we did not want to get into the subject of adscript to the agency. Saying to Catalonia too Yes, it's possible that this was precisely the one that laid down the consent to add Initiative in its moment of law, which we specifically asked to be in the Presidency, wasn't it? From the CUP I know it's hard that they don't vote for the theme of rac... And he also wanted to thank, therefore, the support of the People's Party at the side of the House. And to say that we feel... so, above all, we congratulate them, we hope that it will serve to give a new impulse of truth to vocational training, that it is a pleasure that we approve and that, therefore, this participation of social workers, which I believe we have been able to strengthen and which I am sure will benefit the quality of training. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.214.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Niubó. We're calling it a vote. Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.215.0	To ask for a separate vote on item 9 and 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.216.0	Thank you very much. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.217.0	To ask for a separate vote on 16.b... no, I'm sorry, 16 bis. [[Albert Botran and Pahissa ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.218.0	Mr. Botran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.219.0	We'd like to vote separately on 2, 3, 12, 17, 18...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.220.0	Two... one moment. Two, three, 12...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.221.0	...the 20th and the 21st.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.222.0	... 17, 18, 20 and 21. [[Pause.]] They've called for separate votes on points 2, 3, 9, 12, 16 bis, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21, okay? [[Pause.]] So, first we'll vote on these points and then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. So we're going to vote point two. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. Now we're going to vote number three. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. We're going to vote point 9. The vote begins. It was rejected by 61 votes in favour, 70 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 12. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on 16 bis. The vote begins. It was approved by 97 votes to 9, with 25 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number 17. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 18. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on the 19th. The vote begins. It was rejected by 61 votes in favour, 70 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point 20. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 21. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 120 votes to 10, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the government's inquiry into a republic with zero corruption]] [[302-00050/11]] The twenty-one point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government about a republic with zero corruption, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. To expose it, has the word Mr. Benet Salellas. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please ask them to leave quickly and quietly. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.223.0	Yeah? Thank you, Madam President. To justify the young lady's content, I think we've already exposed Ple in the past, haven't we? Like the mechanisms of control and fight against corruption that we have established until today are manifestly insufficient, right? And from here, the measures we proposed to improve these mechanisms of the Anti-Fraud Office, the prosecution, the Account Union, etc., will, right? I believe that the corruption evidenced and found in Catalonia in recent years is the evidence that this system has not worked for us. Today, in fact, we have learned that the prosecution is asking five years of detention for Oriol Pujol Ferrusola, who was Secretary General of Democratic Convergence and spokesman in this Parliament for this training for crimes of trafficking in influence, bribery and documental falsification in a report of sufficient force, the one containing the prosecutor's writing, which speaks of interested contacts, mid-term awards, unjustifiable remunerations in 2011 and, therefore, a year in which the Anti-Fraud Office already existed, in which the Account Union already existed and in which, in the end, there were all these mechanisms that were not used at that time, nor to tax, nor to dissuade, nor, in any way, to avoid. In fact, the conduits of Oriol Pujol, therefore, were totally in tune with the rest of the conduits developed for the Pujol family, beginning with those of the marriage of Jordi Pujol and Marta Ferrusola, who are feeling investigated, right? , in relation to fraud and money laundering crimes on the money of the supposed leaves from Florenci Pujol, an investigation that is found at the Education Court number 31 of Barcelona and in which the children Jordi, Marta, Pere and Mireia are also charged, and with the conjunction of the rest of the investigations, right? , which affect the same Jordi Pujol Ferrusola, which is being investigated by the National Audience in relation, therefore, to the origin of the 33_million euros– 33_million euros– which has been moved through banks of eleven different countries. Or the same Oleguer Pujol and Ferrusola, which, therefore, as is also known, is also charged for crimes of tax fraud and money laundering, in this case, for transactions related to..., real estate transactions in tax havens, in Panama, the Virgin Islands, related to 2,000_million euros. It is, in short, about the family known as Pujol, of an authentic structure of corruption, wouldn't I say state structure, would it? But it is an authentic structure which, together with the party, with the Democratic Convergence, according to what the prosecutor's writing tells us about the case of Palau de la Música, so, in other words, the fiscal lord..., in the writing for which he asks for very high prison sentences in relation to the Osàcar treasurer, of Democratic Convergence, speaks to us that there was a « stable criminal pact, isn't there? , which began in 1999 and which would have continued, as at least, until 2009, and, therefore, which would have lasted neither more nor less than two years, which would have been extended and renewed every year and which would have consisted, therefore, in a pact which was to divert funds from Railway to Democratic Convergence via Palau de la Música, which did not assign the famous 3_per_cent, but in this case a 2.5_per_cent, which was assigned to Democratic Convergence, neither less nor less, because there was another intermediary, in this case Millet and Montull, who is retributed with the 1,5_per_cent, also from all this conjunction of operations. We were talking about Oscar, accused, threesome of Convergence, accused in the case of Palau de la Música, but we could talk about Viloca, which is the next threesome, right? , if I am not mistaken, of Democratic Convergence, which has also been admitted to prison, precisely in this case for an investigation followed by the justice of Vendrell and for the operation that has been known, or for the case that has been known, for the case of 3_per_cent, for the case of Petrum, and thus a very long – very long – list of judicial causes, of investigations that are already in phase, let us say, consolidated, in which the prosecution has already accused all those responsible for Democratic Convergence in the sense, therefore, of imputing them unjustly rich based on plundering the public erarium. Deia Vázquez Montalbán that "forty years of Francoism did not pass in vain and that, together with structural heritages carried by the Transition, have remained sequels of reactionary political culture that rest on the basic affirmation that all politicians are equal, and in their complement, that politics is for those who live from it. This is a text from the famous Anti-Corruption Manifesto, prepared for Vázquez Montalbán in 1990. I think this warning that he was making us, so now he's more than twenty-five years old still feels perfectly strong. There's someone, like Quico Homs, who understands that it's possible to mask everyone and that somehow all policies are the same. So, no; not all policies are the same, not all of us who participate in politics come from parties that have, as the prosecution says, a stable criminal pact with corruption. No, no, We have come here to work and precisely to build a Catalan republic without corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.224.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. To defend the papers presented, Mr Ferran Pedret of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.225.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, people who accompany us from the public, the Socialist Parliamentary Group presented a couple of papers to the motion that the deputy of the CUP explained today, a motion that is entitled 'on a republic with zero corruption. Basically, our contributions were in two lines. The first is to ensure that any mechanism that is created to coordinate the various agencies, police units, different institutions that in Catalonia work in the fight against corruption and fraud, or in their prevention, was independent of the Government. We understand that perhaps the intention of the CUP was not to propose anything else, but in the concrete wording it seemed to us that it was not very clear and, therefore, we made a contribution in this sense, and clearly that this mechanism, whatever instance you intend to coordinate the fight and the prevention of corruption and fraud, retained accounts before the Parliament, which we understand is what we have more or less consensual and established in other cases, such as the Anti-Fraud Office, the Accounting Union, the Heavy Trade Union, etc. And, therefore, it seems logical that everything comes back here also before the representation of the citizens of Catalonia. The second of the contributions, perhaps more modest, was to ensure that there was no mechanism of anonymous complaint, but rather a mechanism, in any case, of a reservation of identity of the complainant in order to protect him from any negative circumstance that the person might have affected by the fact of having denounced, but that in any case you allow a certain degree of transparency. And, in fact, it's a mechanism that's already known, not just in Catalonia – for example, the Anti-Fraud Office has established it, and a significant part of the complaints that it's reprehensible through this mechanism with a reservation of identity – but it's also a mechanism known in other countries around us, and therefore, it seems to us that it's reasonable. And in this sense we would like to thank the group proposing that we are able to reach consensus and reach compromises, not only with our group, but also with others, who will probably already talk about it, and therefore these two of our concerns have been incorporated. It is true that, without any mention of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, there was also a question on the part of another group, in this case of Ciutadans, about a question which we may also consider to be minor, but we understand that we do not want to eliminate the expenditure relating to the participation of officials of the Anti-Fraud Office in international travel and finding, but that in any case, it is necessary to prove that there is an exchange of experience which is strictly necessary, but that it seems to us that the Anti-Fraud Office participates in European, international institutions, with other types of bodies which do similar functions, and that, therefore, there is an exchange of experience and that there is an international forum in which the Anti-Fraud Office participates in European institutions, with other types of bodies which do similar functions, and that, for that reason, there is an exchange of experience and that there is a forum at the international level in which the Anti-Fraud Office always, therefore, I hope that the European authorities will participate. But say a little, because until now I haven't made a reference, because it is certainly a purely anecdotal question, but let's say, the title of the young man is a title, let's say it, to some extent, grandiose; full of good will, and with a possible objective, certainly, to get a country with zero corruption, but if it is not someone who thinks that the republic will also bring us the new man, it is true that the human condition makes it think that corruption will always happen, and that it is important to have the institutional mechanisms the best fit possible to fight against fraud and corruption, in order to avoid, to put all the sticks to the wheels that are possible, and that it is important to have the institutional mechanisms that you can do well, let's say that you can not fight fraud and corruption, so that you can avoid, to put all the sticks to the wheels that you can do, and that you can well produce the girls, so that you can do it, so that you can do something else. But let's say that this should be our capture – that it is a word that pleases Parliament very much –: to try to make it as difficult as possible that corrupt, fraudulent conducts can be hard to term, and, to the extent possible, to detect them before they have come to produce an evil to public interests, which are the interests of citizens and citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.226.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Next, has the word Albano Dante Fachin, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.227.0	We're talking about corruption and there's no convergence left... thank you, President. Last week the CUP companies presented a motion that has as its objective better tools to fight corruption. The motion, as Pedret said, is entitled "on a republic with zero corruption; for us, regardless of whether it is for the republic or for autonomy, so we understand that it is thanks, right? That's to imagine a space with zero corruption. And, besides, considering that this young man presents an organization like the CUP, that he has done a lot of teaching to explain that corruption is not an isolated fact, but that it is a structural and systemic fact, so it is a very interesting young man. I believe, and it will certainly pass so, that we will adopt a few measures to be able to fight corruption better. We would vote in favour of almost all the points, but I wanted to take advantage of these four minutes that I have left to go a little further than the young lady said and give some thought to corruption in Catalonia. Now that Councilman Romeva is here..., Councilman Romeva, last week, when this young man presented himself, he was explaining to us a little, well, that with the new state we would have the tools to make the dream of zero corruption come true, right? And come and say, that the new country will be an oasis of cleanness. But in Catalonia it's been a long time since we created the oasis, because once we all found out that the Catalan oasis was more of a keystone, so, of oasis... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, yeah; he was talking about how we could get through this. And no – and no – because we have the obligation to remember some things. Women's memory – women's memory – because the anti-corruption committee in last year's legislature was all over the place, wasn't it? , because the clavegore is very uglier. And Arthur Mas went out, with the ambientador; he was an ambientador carrying fifty-one anti-corruption measures. Nor did he remind us in David Fernández that of the fifty-one anti-corruption measures only 7 per cent of these measures have been applied. What's going on here? So, it's not going; it's not going, Romeva; it's not going, Junts per el Si; it's not going to be that when we follow a republic we're clean, because today, that it might be clean, it's not clean. And, therefore, rot is not just a thing of the past; rot, if we believe that corruption is systemic, has a name that is Catalonia's Democratic Convergence. Yes, it has a name, and it's Catalonia's Democratic Convergence. Therefore, not just looking into the past, looking into the future. We're looking at the future. I'll give you an example. We're talking tax here today. And just yesterday we saw together for the Yes and the PP agreed to defend the interests of the powerful. And that has to be taken into account, because, when we talk about corruption, taxation is also a bit of corruption, because thousands of millions of euros a year disappear by circumvention, by evasion. And if we look at Junt's future plans for the Yes on taxation, the thing doesn't seem to get any better. How is it to be improved when Arthur But entrusts him with the design of the Catalan heritage to Pricewaterhouse and Deloitte, which are two companies that help the great companies to the exclusion and the evasion of taxes on an industrial scale? These are the tools, Romeva, that in the future will allow us to fight for corruption, from the hands of PricewaterhouseCoopers and Deloitte? – that they certainly have some excarcerations and some signature names of Convergence. This shows that we are ahead of a structural issue. And, therefore, it is clear that when Together for the Yes one imagines this country free of corruption, perhaps it is not talking about persecuting it, but about legalizing it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Hala! Hala! Do you know who PricewaterhouseCoopers is? No, he didn't read it. I'll pass him a link that's very interesting. I'm done – I'm done. Because we have memory, and we also remembered the Democratic Convergence described for a prosecutor as a stable pact with corruption. Let's say that, let's say that clearly, because that forces us to ask ourselves a question: if the question is systemic, if Convergence is the game [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] of the system responsible for all this and who makes these shameful proposals from the hand of PricewaterhouseCoopers and Deloitte, we can imagine some decent future...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.228.0	Mr. Fachin...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.229.0	...for this country...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.230.0	...has exhausted time; I know hard.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.231.0	A thousand left him more... [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.232.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.233.0	What is it, why lower taxes? Well, I'm just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.234.0	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.235.0	Can we imagine a better future for this country if at the forefront of this future, marking the agenda is Democratic Convergence? We don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.236.0	I've left it to you too, haven't I? [[Some applause.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Fachin. Next, has the word Lord Lluís Corominas, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.237.0	President, councillor, councillor... well, I'll talk about the young man, if that sounds good to you. And to start by saying that, beyond the title, that, certainly, therefore, it is a desire and a tendency that we must surely go, that what the motion says is those legislative measures, those tools, too, of coordination and those means that we must put to the service of the organizations that fight against corruption because everything has been better. Initially we presented some suppression papers and some careful modification that there were competing themes and also fears of inapplication of what was proposed to the same motion that seemed to us not to be coherent. This has all worked out; there are two underparties that do not. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Three, which we cannot share, which I will now explain, but the rest of the motion, which is substantially... With the rest of the motion, we appreciate the compromise capacity that has been made and agreed with the rest of the political formations, and especially with the group that presented it, with the UPC. Also this young man is present not only to avoid present and future cases, but above all because we come from a legal system that has gone, somehow, faring like a species of misguided puzzle, and going into syndicates of accounts, of weights, the Anti-Fraud Office... ; for another band, we have the powers of the State in judicial matters and also in matters that are not the competence of the Generality, and that all the pleas have not been coordinated properly, and that create many keys to the system. And, therefore, I understand that this young man is also persecuting that the level of exigency that we have to have as a society goes beyond what we have been building in a very complex legal system. Well, moving on to the motion, the creation of the mechanism... – Mr Pedret said very well – it is not an organization or an initiative to be among the government; it must be an independent tool. We understand that this is what it is to be, a tool; a coordination tool between the different bodies that are dedicated to fighting fraud and corruption, and in this there are the points that have been raised and, therefore, we will be here at the side of the rest of the parliamentary groups as well. Also to appearances, as a particular accusation, in cases where the generality's benefits are affected or have been affected... in one way or another, in cases of fraud and corruption. And, also, at point 2, all that is the assessment that once in the year, therefore, we will make, through an appearance, and a report from the Government, respect all those cases that the Union of Accounts has been evaluating in reports during the year. This will obviously lead us to have a look at the compliments of those recommendations made by the Union – which you know the report has made – and, at the same time, also to make it coincide with what up to now was a appearance by the High Court of Justice or the Public Prosecutor's Office, on the cases that have occurred in Catalonia and, in general, the memory presented by the High Court of Justice, and, therefore, that it is a useful session, once a year, of an assessment of the whole question. The third point, respecting the Union of Accounts also, provides for the amendment of Article 71 of the Finance Act. It seemed to us that it was not through the Finance Act that the mechanism was appropriate to regulate what the alerters were. We ask that it be done in one figure apart and, in any case, that Article 71 does give freedom to the trade union because the situation with which the reports on certain bodies are made by reason of their import is not annual, but that they can decide that it is biannual, or every three years or four, depending also on the workload that there is, and in this way also, the petition made to me by the same syndics, can be made further reports. With regard to item 4, which is in accordance with the sub-item, and item 5, the salary scope of the Anti-Fraud Office and the Union of Accounts, is a limitation to EUR 67,000. The message that we had presented was on the line that this limitation was the same as for the conjunction of the directives and staff of the Generality. He didn't want to join and he's the only one... these two points are the ones we won't vote for, together with the letter b of point 5, which also relates to the effectiveness of the Anti-Fraud Office. It seems to us that the thought we had raised was more consistent with the system, because it is all the group of public workers that should have this limitation, not two concrete bodies, but in any case it will be the ones that we will vote against. Well, a final consideration. We are, together for the Yes, committed to fighting corruption and, somehow, the proof is that we will vote in favour of most of this young man. But yes, let's say..., I have to say, both to the CUP and to Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, that in the previous legislature, that there was an important structural measure to change, precisely, fears of struggle against corruption, which less worked on this were the CUP and Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, that is the Law of Transparency, to which you practically did not make any contribution. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.238.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Corominas. Next, the words of Mr Matías Alonso, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.239.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, well, this young man, if we only look at the title, we can also say it's the young man about utopia, right? , and I will not enter the speech of Thomas More, but in any case, this republic with zero corruption that sets us up, this world will imagine, with links epics and fantasistics, therefore, can also be much like the taste of the CUP, not only the CUP but also its main partner at these times, which is Together for the Yes. From this relationship we're living, in the past, with this love-hate relationship, right? , continue, between what we could name, therefore, the oligarchy of Drets and what we could say is an anti-system left, but in the end, we see it, it is configured for its heretics, right? And both – both – want to live clearly out of utopia, want to live in this fantasy island, in this imaginary republic with perhaps impossible absence of corruption. And they plant a creation of a new device, of a new mechanism of prevention and of struggle against corruption and against fraud, with catalan pedigree, must be precisely this mechanism, catalan. We do not consider it essential, really, neither would we oppose it, but in any case, what we will do will be old because it is not converted into a new xiringuite. And little more you really have, if we look at it, there's little more. And I don't want to leave it unimportant, not even good, that corruption has to do with the cities, with politics and with the lives of everyone in Catalonia and Spain, but it's that the Catalan pedigree..., it's not enough with this, because there are many Catalans who have also received a doctorate in corruption; we have to keep it very present. And some of them have been getting their doctorates and all the praises, haven't they? I won't go in there. It's been said here, not just the founding father, all his offspring... But we have, in this Parliament, an open committee, after having held a specific committee to fight corruption, we have an open committee at this time, a new committee, in this case of study to look for the best measures of fighting corruption and fraud. A commission that pushed Citizens and that precisely the leader of this young man, therefore, is presiding over him at these moments..., and I now announce that we want to give him more momentum, to this committee of study. We want it to meet more frequently, with a biweekly periodicity, and we want it to have more comparisons, and we also want these comparisons to bring an accurate view of the problem, which really serves to provide solutions to this problem, which continues to be a systemic problem, as has been said, a serious problem and which affects us all: all Catalans and the conjunct of Spaniards. So far we've had a series of appearances that... I don't want to miss anyone, but, for me, there's only one appearance, clearly, that has brought solutions, that's Dr. Queralt's. I already told him: when I was listening to him it seemed to me in a certain way to be listening to Ciutadans' election program in the area of corruption. And it was about a matter that we think is fundamental and that in this Parliament many years ago we are defending that this is what it is. He made it clear, first of all, that fighting corruption was a matter of political will; therefore, this is essential: political will must be maintained. And, according to the report, there is a phonative measure in this political will that it is immediately to move away from any charge of political responsibility those investigated, those accused of political corruption, for these cases of corruption, that I will not now speak of the misappropriation of the entire public, to speak of prevarication..., of these crimes that everyone recognizes as those that conform to political corruption. Therefore, we must follow the line marked by Dr. Queralt, we must be aware that the best way against corruption, to fight against corruption, is this political will, and the political will must take the direction of the parties, it is essential that the direction of the parties, and the ethical compromise, the aesthetic commitment of all those who dedicate themselves to politics, of all public bodies, precisely because this struggle is still phonenal, and that it is present in all cases. These days are again news... Precisely, there has been talk here of some systemic corruption, some concrete names... – now I was referring to the willingness to move away from the public authorities, immediately, those investigated –; today precisely a report of findings of the anti-corruption prosecution has made it clear to us that what the Mayor of Ciu's Parliamentary Group was defending respects to what his spokesman was...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.240.0	Mr. Alonso, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.241.0	...so we see that there should actually be this decision. Many thanks, President; many thanks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.242.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Alonso. Next, it has the word "Mrs. Esperanza García", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.243.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, well, the reality of corruption in Catalonia brings us to memory a fairly large list of corruption cases. We can talk about the case of Prenafeta, the year 90; the CARIC ; the 96, of Pascual Estevill and of Piqué Vidal ; the 99, of the plot of the Delegation of Hisenda in Barcelona ; the case Tourism ; Adigsa ; Pallerols... Vaja, so long – so long – that sometimes only the last cases remain, right? , to the mind, as is the case Innova, Crespo, Fernández, case Pujol – obviously. You see, we have a lot of work and a lot of work ahead of us, and we have a responsibility that is inescapable for what we dedicate to Catalonia to politics, we face a challenge that is essential, that is..., those that we believe that politics must be a public service, and that it must be worthy, and that it must be because it is difficult, therefore, that it is dignified, right? That is why we are providing this public service, policy in an efficient, transparent, exemplary and realistic way. Before analyzing the content of the CUP motion, what we did want to do, from the People's Party, is a little reflection, isn't it? The title is certainly misleading, because then the content of the motion has very positive points, but you have left us an important advertising headline, haven't you? , which is: "On a republic with zero corruption. Well, I think that, despite that, there are many points that are very voteable and that we are going to support them, and that it would be good – it would be good – not to talk about dream situations. That is to say, 'zero corruption is impossible, you know it perfectly well, as we all know in this Chamber, and'republication, for it is obviously its political objective, but of course to eliminate corruption or at least to make it difficult there is no need to create any state of its own or anything like it. And being serious, I think it is important to differentiate, and from the People's Party, and this particular Member is happy and satisfied that today's debate is precisely productive, in the sense of not linking and knowing and having the clear awareness that corruption is ultimately committed by people in the exercise of their functions, often public, and in politics; and thus taking advantage of the opportunity they have to influence and make political decisions. And the more controls we put in, the better. And how much more trouble we have, and how much more difficult it is for those who use politics to enrich themselves, better yet, right? And that we can also breastfeed those who are honest, engage in politics and do so with a vocation of public service and fully convinced that it is important that honesty is essential to participate in politics, that we do not have to ask forgiveness for the choriceo of others, speaking clearly. So if false expectations are not generated, this motion has very favourable points with regard to establishing a basis for hindering, but not preventing, corruption, right? And that is to give more tools to the Union of Accounts. We believe that it is very important that report you have to make annually, and so on; that you include in that motion. That they strengthen themselves, too, all that are economic and human resources in the office of the Union of Accounts, as well as that of anti-fraud, and that they do not travel around the world to the Willy Fog and that they dedicate themselves essentially to putting all the tools to fight against that corruption that takes away the dignity of our institutions. And, therefore, all of that we are going to vote in favour. However, creating more agencies, no. And we say this simply because of the experience we had at the last appearance, of Mr. Daniel de Alfonso, of the Anti-Fraud Office. When he himself, on questions from this Member, tells us: "It is true that citizens have an absolute lack of control over which institution they have to go to inform a case of corruption and be able to take action on it. I believe that, institutions, there are enough, and what needs to be done is to focus efforts on making resources, precisely that, for research and the fight against corruption, and on establishing mechanisms where they are given more executive capacity. That is to say that you, Mr Salellas, like me, who is in the Union of Accounts, in that committee, have heard on many occasions the syndicates complain that their decisions do not have executive force and that in the end they are not fulfilled, and I believe that it is important to support it and encourage it. And besides, we believe that if we stop from ideological a prioriism and populism...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.244.0	Congresswoman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.245.0	Just a momentet –... and populism, with the effort of all we can manage to dignify not only politics, but also institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.246.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr. Benet Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.247.0	Thank you, President. Well, certainly, I do want to thank, that I have not done it before, the attitude of the rest of the groups of the chamber, especially Juntes for the Yes and the PSC, with whom we have arrived, let us say, to a certain consensus in the final content of the motion, while I must say that the final content drops, somehow, some lists that we have placed enough others and that they might explain why we were talking about the Catalan Republic with zero corruption, right? And it's that we really tried, with the young man, to enter into prosecution-related competitions and questions that belong to the State itself now and that we sought with the young man that we started to be a part of..., that we started thinking, imagining and living as the Catalan Republic, right? Together for the Yes he didn't buy us and in the end we preferred to be possible and that the young lady could pull forward. I must say, in any case, that talking about the republic does have to do with talking about fighting corruption. From the outset, because the Spanish Constitution, in Article 56.3, says that the monarch is not only immune and inviolable, but "is not subject to liability and, therefore, all the looting, all the influences and all the negotiations that the Spanish monarch has made with the money, the assets and structures of all the Spaniards, therefore, can not subservient to judgment simply because you and the parties that support the constitutional regime shield the head of the State and the conjunct of the Spanish royal family. So, yes, it is important to talk about the republic, because talking about the republic means talking about equality and it means that everyone – everyone – is subject to the principles of responsibility for our parties, and that there are only a few, just after ‘wealth with what is public, so directly they don't have to give explanations. And I would just end up making it clear that, even from our group, we would not buy the pessimistic speech that corruption, so there will always be, that corruption is something inherent in being human, as Congressman Pedret came to plant. It is not about new men or women; it is about, in some way, ending capitalism and what is the cause of corruption, in short, of this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.248.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. We're calling it a vote. [[Lluís M. Corominas and Díaz ask to speak.]] Mr. Corominas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.249.0	Yes, for a separate vote from points 4a and 5a and 5.b. 5.a and 5.b can vote together – for us, go. [[Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.250.0	Mr. Coscubila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.251.0	Thank you, President. To ask for a separate vote from 4a and 4.b, 5a and 5.b, which we could all vote together. I know it's hard, but... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.252.0	Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.253.0	Yes, for a separate vote of '1.c, 2, 3, 4a, 5a and 5.b. We can all vote together. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.254.0	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.255.0	To ask for a separate vote from paragraph 5.b, so alone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.256.0	Okay. I was asked to vote separately from '1.c, 2, 3, 4a, 4.b, 5a and 5.b. I've been told that 1.c, 2 and 3 can vote together? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] 1.c, 2 and 3 can vote together? [[Pause.]] So, let's take this first vote. Then it was also said that 5a and 5b can vote together? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, Okay, 5th and 5th, no. 4.a and 4.b can they vote together? [[Pause.]] So, first we'll take a vote on the '1.c, 2 and 3, and then the other separate ones and at the end the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] So now we're going to vote points 1.c, 2 and 3. The vote begins. 97 votes in favour, 9 against and 25 abstentions were adopted. Next, we'll vote on point 4.a. The vote begins. It was rejected by 26 votes to 69, with 35 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 4.b. The vote begins. It was approved by 120 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 5.a. The vote begins. It was rejected by 26 votes to 69, with 36 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 5.b. The vote begins. It was rejected by 19 votes to 60, with 52 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Some applause.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into State Government investments and train punctuality]] [[302-00051/11]] The twenty-two point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the question to the Government on the investments of the Government of the State and the punctuality of the trains, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. To expose it, has the word Lord Gerard Gómez del Moral. And ask them, please, to come out, as always, of prey and silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.257.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, just a week ago we spoke, we asked the councillor about Renfe's bad service, the bad rail service that unfortunately we have in Catalonia because of a bad maintenance and the non-inversions that the Spanish government has made; not the last one or the previous one: far from history. And unfortunately this is our country of every day; delays, they are absolutely constant; in fact, we have already talked about it, in the lines of regionals, especially those of the Jew and, in fact, the deputy Bel this morning also referred to it in the inquiry on the Mediterranean Corridor; to rollies... In fact, damage, fires, trains that do not work, chains that run, poorly maintained, silences that fall and no one ever fixes them, etcetera. An evil maintenance, a non-inversion that, in the end, is not harming the Government or the Parliament or the infrastructure; no, no, harm the citizens. And today – and how it's current and today it was talking to the radio – there have been cases, and a person was calling to the radio this morning that he had lost the opportunity of a job because of the ill use of rollers because, simply, a person who lived in Calafell and found or was in a selection process in Barcelona and asked him how he was going to work, he said with rollers, and they said that they couldn't take it because they were tired of the experience that their workers arrive permanently late, that it's a very difficult thing. And so, it's a very difficult thing that obviously needs to be looked at, but it needs to be looked at, above all, at the Government of the State, that what is condemning is that people living in Catalonia have a lot of mobility problems to go to work, to go to college or to move 'if, therefore, it's a problem that really affects us, and a lot. Therefore, there is no reversal, there is a bad maintenance and, above all, the State's response is to want to chronicle these permanent setbacks. That is to say, we know that we arrive late, we know that the trains of the Jew are already coming with twenty minutes of delay and what we do is say: "No, no, listen, we don't fix it but we make the times arrive late already by decree, let's say it, and therefore we add this difficulty to the operation of the trains and, therefore, what we do is to chronicle an evil serve. For all this, we have presented, therefore, this young man, where we ask for a follow-up of questions. In the first place, just this one that we talked about, that is not changing the times, this change that the central government was planning to do for June 12th and that is to chronify and that is to close the shames. So, that's not changing these times. It's also a compliment, and it's taught in the reports, about the time limits of speed and it's fixed. And let these temporal limitations, because they are temporal, vaginate accompanied by a plan of works and vaginate accompanied by a timetable of execution of these works because they are that, temporal, because they are not and therefore intervene in all this matter. We're also talking about returning to competitive time; the speed and time of trains, so every year they've gone down, and these delays, actually, have these consequences. We are talking about investments because, obviously, one of the main friends of this evil served is the lack of investments; investments that can be talked about from the 2008-2015 roundtable, those 4,000_millions that initially promised the minister neither left nor doubled and that after the White minister also executed and that today we do not get to the 10_percent of execution; we are talking about the 306_millions agreement and we are talking about all the agreements that have been reached. Because it's not a demand, it's a signed agreement; it's not a request from the Generality, no, no, it's an agreement that the government of the State has also been compromised and that they will deliberately never execute. Therefore, investments and that is complacent to the granted, but, above all, the transposition. And we say above all because we no longer want to try to make more demands; we want to be responsible for what is happening in Catalonia. We want to be responsible for reversing a situation that harms the citizens of Catalonia. Let us say to ourselves, as I would have said or as Ovidi said: "We are no longer fed softly, we want peace. I mean, we want to build a state, and that's known to everyone. We want to be responsible for our actions and we want to make trains arrive at the hour and that people can move through our country as they deserve in a public service. Therefore, the transfer, the total transfer of the infrastructure, the transfer that you allow the Generalitat to operate the railway service and that you allow Catalonia to have a worthy service...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.258.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.259.0	...as your citizens deserve it. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.260.0	Thank you very much. To defend the papers presented, has the word Ms. Hortènsia Grau, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.261.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, well, we've got a young man left; we've got a young man left and, besides, a young man who doesn't only urge the Government of the State, who is already well, we have to go, because there are so many hard ones here, but he also owes the Government of the Generality, which he also plays, because here we are in the Parliament of Catalonia. I think that with the acceptance of the papers, which has been easy to negotiate with company Gerard, we have arranged, because here, as he said, the issue is the transpatch. The theme is the transposition, because Fomento has exhausted us. Promotion has exhausted us all and I will not repeat the lack of reversals of the Roadmap; the lack of effective protocols; the reduction of staff, which, moreover, is denouncing the unions from a long time ago; the complications derived, we have to say, from the separation of responsibilities between Promotion, which has Renfe and Adif, and the Generality, which have the competence of the service, which makes it a drama of governance at the time of operating this service. And we..., of course, we can forgive, the citizens and citizens of Catalonia, the Government..., we can forgive one day that some "sorizos robin ran, or two days or three days. We can forgive one day that I ask for Windows, that I skip the system and that the entire operating system fails. We can forgive the fact that there's a fire in a tunnel, a fire in a house, and the whole thing goes away. But, of course, what cannot be forgiven, and more so than a defense of public transport and rail transport, is that of the general assumptions of the State the majority is devoted to high-speed lives or highways, and only vagina – general assumptions 2015 of the State – 153_million to rollers, while there are 17,000_million to suppositions. Nor can we forgive Fomento, which is totally disconnected from public transport, but not only from Barcelona, but also from Madrid. It affects us here. Therefore, it is necessary to pass Adif's title and skills to the Generality in the framework of a single transport authority, and with the presuppositional transfers, because here we also learned, here, that we had no competition without the money. So, this, bad invention, and bad assumption, and we're not staining the consequences. So, the transposition of competition? The transfer of money, so you can do the hanging works and the maintenance of the network. Because, moreover, it is logical: there is a principle in public administration, the principle of subsidiarity, and because, moreover, we have succeeded in previous transfers. At 78, when the Carrilet and the Sarrià-Vallès train were crossed, the Railways of the Generality did not make a good management, so we have practice and we can do it. But I'm saying all this that we have to demand, as well as that the government of the generality does the dues and, as it is who manages, so it has to review all the services. And here are some interesting proposals, counselor, that made him the PTP, for example, of the Tic Tac Train, of cadence..., of making a cadence service, of taking advantage of all the network we have, of doing as they do the European systems in which everyone knows that trains depart every hour to and five, to and from, to and from, and to people..., makes much more use of public transport, becoming different levels of frequency, that I remember that on the train that was made by the tripartite government was already there and unfortunately there remained. And they also do other things, counselor: they can't overlay express bus services, which is very well in some areas, in areas where there are competitive railway lines, because then we make our own competition. That's why I'm glad he's accepted the message he's talking about, the timing service. Also, that we had accepted the thought of not privatizing these servants and..., above all this came... – and here I do the "guinyo" – came by the railway launcher to the airport of the Prat de Llobregat. Why? Because if we have it..., the Prat with the launcher can end up being a very important hub; the Prat of Llobregat can end up being a hub that generates synergies in the lines that come from the south with line 9 of the metro and that makes all citizens outside Barcelona get to our international airport with good weather conditions. I also say, because I have very few moments left, that I understand that I have not accepted the papers that make reference to the Tramcamp and that make reference to all the railway nudes of Languedoc-Rosselló, of Northern Catalonia. I get it. But, tell him that these items do not leave them parked, but that we will put forward a motion for a resolution, because now that we will clear the corridor among all, and that we can make the corridor, the Tramcamp is the other assignment pending that we have to my territory. Many thanks, counselor, deputies and deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.262.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Grau. [[Some applause.]] Next, the words of Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.263.0	President... Counsellor, Members and Members, we have focused our discussions precisely on those questions on which the Councillor was asked at the previous session, and which I believe was the cause of the interest of the Government, and we have not gone any further, even though I agree with the preservation of the public service as such, of the railway service in Catalonia. But we've focused our discussions, some of us have dealt with the Group of Together for the Yes, and others haven't been possible, on what... on the trip, where the councilman invited us all to bid now fifteen days ago, huh? One of them was how it ended up completing – or how it ended up realizing, because we have a much lower degree of execution – the Roller Plate, which is sure that most performances are pending, compromises with the government of President Rodriguez Zapatero, and also with the commitments of the government of Mariano Rajoy, huh? For different reasons I won't go in there. Here you can make great statements or look for solutions to pending investments. We have presented an issue that the proposed group has not just accepted, all that it has now agreed to at the Congress of Deputies with the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Spanish and Convergence..., or Democracy and Freedom, eh? And that we also wanted to move to this room to look for this coherence of action that is often claimed here and there. And that's what we wanted to bring here. Why? Because we believe that the best way to unravel this issue is through a consortium; a consortium between public administrations: the Government of the Generality, the Government of the State, and also local administration where it is affected by some of these investments, which is different from the bilateral commission that at these times constituted it, because the bilateral commission, as you know, is a political follow-up commission and we proposed it was a managing organ. Exactly where the advisor sometimes puts it as an example: the coordinator/manager of some of the infrastructure... Well, we transferred it here, or we made the proposal to move it here in the form of a consortium. It wasn't possible, but this one still feels our commitment, huh? , here and at the Congress of Deputies on June 2nd and June 27th, if we have responsibilities to govern the Spanish State, councillor. The other point that we proposed, and here it has been possible to reach a transaction with Junts for the Yes, also with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, that it is to seek a way out between the exclusive powers of the State, for which it does the railways that pass through more than one autonomous community, and the powers that the State of Autonomy also binds to the Government of the Generality. Why? Because I believe that the question of funds, from my point of view, is nothing more than how we deal with the problems and the needs of the conventional railway network in Catalonia, but also of railway users. If we improve, we trust; if we trust, we improve public transport and, if we increase public transport, and above all we do it through electrified public transport, in this case, the railway, we are also helping to improve, for example, the quality of the air around metropolity. We agree to review which railway infrastructure in the conventional network does not feel that it is in the rail network of general interest. We propose, as we have also done at the Congress of Deputies, to create a working group between the State and the Generality that determines, before the end of the year, which lines have..., may be..., or are of general interest, exclude from those which have origin and destination in Catalonia, because they cease to be considered of general interest. And we consider that those who do not have a general interest, beyond the solemn and unilateral declarations that are sometimes invited, from one side of the hemisphere, therefore, we end..., from the Government to the Government, agreeing to the transfer of this network, which does not have a general interest in the Government of the Government of Catalonia, as was already done in its time, many years ago, in the reins, in the reins, in the reins of the so-called national reins and which had their origin. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] and its destination in Catalonia which are now part of the network managed by the Generalitat de Catalunya. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.264.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. Next, has the word "Mrs. Marina Bravo", of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.265.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies... not an apex of self-criticism, neither today nor in the interpellation of the other day I was reviewing yesterday. Nor is the slightest intention to take advantage of the skills they have. Victimism, victimism, yes, a lot; victimism and propaganda to blame all evils on the Government of Spain, to conceal the inaction of the Government of the Generalitat also in this. And don't think that with this you are defending the Spanish government, don't put us in the same sack as the PP, please. We're not going to say the Ministry of Development is doing it right. It is impossible to defend the management that has been done in recent years of maintaining the conventional network. We're not going to defend the Ministry of Development, we're going to defend the citizens. We agree with all the claims that are made here and, in fact, we are going to vote in favour of virtually everything. Personally, I am glad that for once the cry has been put in the sky with the timetables and with the speed limitations, that that's what they had to do, that's what interests travelers, and that for once we have forgotten a little bit about the investment figure dance and the comparative aggravations. We agree perfectly. We will vote in favour, as I said, of virtually all the points, well, of all less than one. Demand the transfer like this, because we're prettier, no. A transfer that is only called for by the urgency that here would be better, no. And they're not even ashamed to recognize it, to recognize that that's the only reason, it's just repeated today. They are not able to give a single technical justification or optimization of management, and it is not easy to find the; if there were, if the management were done better from here, we would be the first to lead the request of that competition, because we care that things are managed in the best possible way and not who manages everything, which is the only thing that seems to matter here. The management of railway infrastructure is not a new problem, it is not something that has not been studied, it is something that has been known for many years in many places. And in no region or nation of the world, nor in Quebec, nor in Scotland, has it been transferred anywhere. Why? Because the railway infrastructure has some characteristics of natural monopoly that... – in addition, I think you already know – that is managed in the most effective way with a single manager. It also works as an integrated network, quite complex ours, by the way, I also think they already know about the last years that have transferred the service. Segregating the network would be costly by itself, requiring a strong initial investment; but managing the network in a differentiated way would require replicating uncomplicated structures without any benefit to citizens; duplicate structures that simply absorb resources, rather than removing resources from other things that can be used much better. And in the meantime, they don't do what they have to do. A responsible government cannot stay in victimism, it has to take full advantage of all the skills it has. And, of course, it must not face territories and citizens, let alone fill their heads with irresponsible proposals and some other falsehood. That the trains do not go to competition because they do not have Iberian width, I said the other day in the intervention: "There are many operators who have trains in these moments with the ability to pass through these streets. No one has two hundred trains waiting for us to call them and yet the operation is taken out in a lot of places. I've brought you some news from Berlin, for example, you look to see if you can buy the trains you have and if you don't care, from Renfe, in this case, there from DB, it didn't matter and, if not, you ask for new trains. That's how everybody does it, there are no trains waiting to come. And some other falsehood. I also said, I don't know if I have it here: « Madrid has an excellent system of rollers, they have eighty kilometers of quadrupled road. Go get the 80 kilometers, you'd like to..., and if not, ask your sources to see how many there are, come on, not half or much less. Nothing more. I place the two things I've already placed on the question I asked you the first day. First, to express your skills to the fullest; for that they have free bar and they depend on no one. And, secondly, of course, to defend, but with loyalty, the interests of Catalonia in Madrid, defending a quality infrastructure for the immediate vicinity, in the same way that we have to defend the Mediterranean Corridor or a better financing system. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.266.0	Thank you, Mrs. Bravo. Next, the words of Mr. Alberto Villagrasa, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.267.0	President... Members, councillor, you present this motion, and I find two explanations for it: one, that you are already looking at the general elections of June, so, staying in very superficial statements with maximums that are not true, seeking the objective of saying that here the bad one is Spain ; or, two, run a smoke curtain to cover, therefore, the proposal of budgets that you make in which investments in railway infrastructures are going to go down or want to go down about 300_million_of_euros. And they make a whole series of claims to end up claiming the transfer of infrastructure, so, according to you, what they call "complete the transfer of Rodalies de Catalunya." Something they know is impossible – it is impossible – because the railway network is a heritage of general interest. And anywhere in Europe it goes contrary to what you say. It is about integrating networks, precisely because it is of general interest, and it is about the territorial vertebration of each state or nation. So what you want to create is a state structure in the area of infrastructure, demanding something that you know would never happen in the European Union. And the silence of the truths you hide makes your claims have a series of perversions with the sole intention of falsifying the truth. They say: "The planned investments to deactivate temporary speed limitations should be made urgently. Listen, look, any kind of performance in infrastructure..., they know that they are complex, complicated actions, this is not making a paper castle, and therefore temporary speed limitations are essential. So much so that it ensures that a work or other performance is performed..., giving guarantees of safety for workers and users. And then you talk about the planned investments with the 360_million_euro agreed, which you know will eventually be implemented. They know perfectly well that only 14_per_cent is pending impulse; the rest is either executed or is being executed or is in project. And that is what you call a lack of commitment? Sure? All right. What you have to do is to facilitate and collaborate so that all these projects can reach a successful conclusion. That, one. Secondly, if you call this a lack of commitment, what is the Generalitat Government's name for investment and infrastructure issues over the past five years? What's that called? That doesn't have a name. Well, it has a name; for example, L9, a play with a disproportionate cost and that goes through neighborhoods where it stops and now goes by. That's his example. But not only are the €360 million committed being met, but many more investments are being made that were not provided for in this agreement. For example, the renovation or construction of the new airport station; 447 trains that have been adapted to make them accessible; technology has been improved in the self-sale network or in customer service with new teleindicators, for example. But you don't care about all this, you don't want to explain it. They then require that before accepting a change in rolling hours, Adif informs in detail the reasons for the changes. But if the government already knows them, it knows them perfectly well, they are informed. The government, in addition to being informed of the reasons why they want to be made... you, in part, are responsible for the delays that are caused or that occur in raffles. Why? Because they've been requesting more trains and more schedules than the track could absorb, and they knew it. And often delays occur precisely because of security reasons in space and time. But you know it, you know it and you forget it. Politically they may have gotten along with a lot of people, but technically, on security issues, they've been irresponsible. That's right, here everything works, you can say that the Government of Spain does not invest, does not know how to manage, but they lie and know it. And this is part of the fallacy of the process. You want to put barriers to trains, claim what you know you can't ask for, or demand to resolve what doesn't work partly because of your guilt and responsibility. As the Councillor of Culture said the other day in the interview, Mr Santi Vila : "The process served to cover the cuts. And I add that the process also served to find a fictitious enemy that would serve to cover the Generalitat's inoperability in infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.268.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr Sergi Saladié, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.269.0	All right. Thank you, President. This motion on the investments of the Government of the State and the punctuality of the trains presented by Junts for the Yes to us seems correct and from the start I say that we will vote in favour of all the points. So let's make this clear as a matter of principle. But we'd like to make some considerations. It is true that we are faced with a chronic, structural problem of the country, but we would like a point of self-criticism and not to say that it is always Madrid's fault. That is to say, it is true, as this morning, I think in a masterful way, the Member Belmos has explained which problem we have with some infrastructure, which is certainly due to a lack of interest in Madrid, okay? But here at the principality we also have a series of faults in this sense, and we have to recognize them, and it doesn't happen. And, besides, we think that, as we are building an independent republic, so, it's a good time to take a rest from what we've done wrong and what we're going to do right for the future. I also bring some maps here, they're more discreet, they're from the CUP, say so, huh? So, they're not so... they're not fancy, like Junts per el Si. [[Rialles.]] No, but it's to see... with the territorial plan... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, well, yeah, you'll see, you'll get along. It's to understand that Catalonia's general territorial plan, year 95, made a prediction of reelings, and that's it. [[The orador shows a map to the chamber.]] And, as you can see, it's a teranyina– yes? –, a bunch of reelers, and they've done all the more. Yeah? And on the other hand, we have the sledgehammers – yes? – that it is a much smaller infrastructure; an infrastructure that you almost don't even see, because it is based on the existence – the one that existed in the year 95 – and that is, the one that we have now, inferior to that of the year 95, because here there are lines that have been lost, like, for example, the Reus-Roda, and others that have not been built. Yeah? We've got it here. Yeah? And that's what we've done. Therefore, we must make a point of self-criticism and admit that the railways to the principality have never been a priority or a country structure. And, as I said, it is true that, as we are building a republic and, in addition, we could say, the oil crisis helps us to hear and to make understand that the railway will be one of the possible solutions to the mobility of both goods and people, so I must now bet firmly. And here we are. Therefore, we can say, making a little diagnosis, that the little we have on the railways is old and poorly managed. Reminds me of the nuclears we have there, at the end of which I live, and where am I, there, in Vandellòs, huh? They're old and poorly managed machines. So, with trains and railway infrastructure, it's a little bit the same: it's an infrastructure that's scarce, that's old and more poorly managed. We could say for three elements. One, I say, we exposed him this morning, or this morning he masterfully exposed the Member of Parliament Bel: for a leave of the government with a lack of maintenance in the railway infrastructure, the little we have – that's right. Moreover, there has been a high reversal in high speed or high speed, which has caused a disinvestment in the network, say, more daily, which most people use; therefore, it has not been possible to invest in quantity. But more than that, there are places that have damaged quality. At Sants' entrance, one of the problems with the rollers is that their lives have been strangled, and this is an inconvenience that has caused them to have invested in high speed and sometimes poorly invested. And we could also say a lack of historical claim of governments; it is to say, here, as we went making carts, the railways, so, well, it was not a question that has historically claimed itself in a way, say, intense mass. But now we find ourselves before a double situation. The first is to recognize that the users, every day, of rollers, above all, but also of regionals, see that this network is fatal and, therefore, has to be fixed, and, in band, we have said that we are building a republic which, from our point of view, this republic, must be based, as far as mobility is concerned, on the public transport network. And here the railroad is one of these state structures that we want to claim. Therefore, this situation of a critical situation, which affects both independenceists and non-independenceists, also contributes that each time more people understand that only with the independent republic will it be possible to complete a good network of railway infrastructures, given the history that we have with these infrastructures. Therefore, we could also hear this young man as a toast to the sun, because in the end all we do or most of the points that are fan is ask Madrid to do things, and Madrid, say, we have seen that historically not for work and recently still less. And that, we say, could lead to a abstention, to say, well, according to the background, but going to ask Madrid right now is no use, we have to do this, above all. In a normal country, we would do this: we would go to Madrid and manage this independence, this disconnection, and this would be one of the questions that we would have to get through correctly. But Madrid is not for the job. Despite this, I have already said that we will vote in favour of all points of this motion because, as the CUP Group - Constituent Creed, we always have to give support and always give it to public transport and, above all, to its public management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.270.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Saladié. Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Lord Gerard Gómez del Moral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.271.0	Thank you, President. Well, a few things have been said, then, I will try to point out with the short time I have. First of all, I did want to start thanking all the Members, didn't I? , and deputies, the work we've done: in Hortènsia, the Navy, Sergi, the Jordi, right? Because the truth is that we've gotten along very well, and I think that's what it's about and that's what we need to get, right? , that we work in common by objects that actually influence the life of the citizenry. So I wanted to thank you first. Second, point out a few things, because, of course, Mr. Villagrasa, right? , says: "No, temporal speed limitations are essential. Yes, when they are temporary; when they are two years old or older, they are no longer temporary, they are no longer indispensable. And what it shows is that the State is making a difference in what it does to the management and maintenance of the railway infrastructure. And he says, "No, there must be temporal limitations when there are works. Clearly, however, there must be jobs first, because there are temporal limitations. And the problem is that the state doesn't do the jobs and doesn't invest and doesn't improve the infrastructure. According to them, "it is not believed that Catalonia managed better. Bé, Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat has a punctuality of 99_per_cent; Rodalies de Barcelona, in this first quadrimester of 2016, has one of 86, and if we go to regionals, of 49. I Railroads, 99. And, in addition, it has more frequency, more efficiency and euro/kilometre is more efficient. Why? Why is it, among other things, modernizing automatic signaling, right? , because it has made some necessary investments to be able to improve the infrastructure. And last..., to tell the PP's company that he's got it; actually, we're looking for state structures. You did read the reference to the motion, which is, indeed, this. But what we want with this young man is the opposite of what Mrs Bravo said; we don't want victimism, we don't want to come here to complain, we don't want to make big statements or big demands either, because people don't want big statements, people want solutions. And therefore, we ask for the absolute transposition of the railway system: because we do not complain, because we do not victimize, because we have the capacity, from this Parliament and from the Government of Catalonia, to solve the problems of the people. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.272.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.273.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.274.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.275.0	Thank you. [[Alberto Villagrasa Gil asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.276.0	Mr. Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.277.0	Yes, to ask for a separate vote on point 3a, of what I suppose is the last motion, which arrived a quarter of an hour ago. The last motion has therefore arrived just half an hour ago. I guess it's the one that's put to the vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.278.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.279.0	...and we want to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.280.0	Yeah, yeah, that's the last version, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.281.0	Well, that would be point 3.a. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.282.0	Well, I've been asked to vote separately from points 3a and 4. Can you vote together? [[Pause.]] No, no, Okay. So, we'll start by voting third, then fourth, and then the rest of the vote. Okay? [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.283.0	We have asked for a separate vote on the third and we would also add the fifth. If it's flying, you can vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-02-1702.284.0	Three and five. Can you vote together? [[Pause.]] 3rd and 5th, can you vote together? Yeah? So now we're voting 3rd and 5th after 4th and after the rest of the vote. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's go vote points 3.a, 5. Together. The vote begins. It was approved by 119 votes to 7, with 7 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point four. The vote begins. It was approved by 94 votes to 32, with no abstentions. And then, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 119 votes to seven, with no abstentions. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament. The session's up.
