ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.1.0	The session is open. The list of questions to answer in the Ple is enclosed in the folder. In accordance with Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning as the first item of the order of the day of this session. Also the record of the delegation of vote that, according to Rule 93 of the Rules, made the deputy Àngels Martínez Castells, of the Gruppo Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot, in the spokesman of his group, Mr Joan Coscubiela. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before starting the first point of the order of the day, I must inform you that on the 11th of June, unfortunately a woman died as a result of male violence in Badalona. According to the official data of the Department of Interior and the Catalan Institute of Donations, it is the third death victim of this year for male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime and express my most sincere condolences. Likewise, the new commitment of the Parliament of Catalonia to the eradication of any form of violence against women. [[Condol demonstration on the occasion of the storm at Atatürk airport in Istanbul]] They ask them, now also, that we make a minute of silence in record of the victims of the storm perpetrated last night at Atatürk airport in Istanbul. In the late afternoon we will also make a minute of silence for Orlando's dead, together with the entities that will accompany us. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]] Before beginning the oral questions to the Government, and answering the request made by the Government, the proposal, of compliance with which establishes article 81.3 of the Rules, alteration in the order of the oral questions, so that the Sisena asks the Government about the Logis Penedès is able to substantiate the last of the questions to the Government ; that is to say, after question number 9 on the management of the cases of enterovirus. Can this alteration be approved with your consent? [[Pause.]] The order of oral questions is modified in this sense. [[Ask the government about the prosecution and the trial of a TV3 worker]] [[310-00092/11]] The first question to the Government is about the prosecution and the trial of a TV3 worker, presented by Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.2.0	Yeah? Thank you, President. Counsel, the 2010-2012 Legislature is one of those who have made nominations that leave petjada. Last week we were able to have an exhibition. And they certainly have something in common with Mr. De Alfonso with the authoritative forms with which Mr. Brauli Duart, appointed president of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans on March 2012, applied to the process of gathering together, generating, therefore, discomfort to the staff, generating labor conflict. A conflictiveness of the epilogue of which is quite unpleasant, and tomorrow we have the exhibition: there is a trial against a worker, who is asked seven years of imprisonment for having, presumably, revealed a secret, that it was the preparation and execution of an employment regulation dispatcher. Tomorrow there is this trial, and the accusation, therefore, is this: to have, therefore, fished and revealed this regulatory expedition, which was followed by an investigation of Mossos d'Esquadra, a detention, an entourage for three days as if it were drawn from a public hairdresser, three days of incommunicado. We find, today, that these data, which supposedly revealed this worker are already public for the Law of Transparency, and we find, at the same time, that the labor conflict on TV3 and the Catalan corporation has diminished. And, therefore, we understand, by a band, therefore, that the display of force made by the Mossos d'Esquadra at that time, the disproportion of the penalty demanded and the insistence on demand, today, are part more of a political scare than not of anything else. Therefore, the question is clear: do you intend to place the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation so that you can drop the charge against the TV3 worker in Gustau?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.3.0	Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.4.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, there are comparisons that are hateful and what you have done at the heart of your intervention, I honestly believe it is. Precisely, you, as much as you talk about the de-governmentalization of public media, I suppose you know perfectly well that the corporation acts with full independence respecting the government and that you have recognized its autonomy, according to the law. So, I think it's out of place that you're talking about replacing the corporation with the government of the generality for what can be a punishable fact, from the criminal point of view. We are in front of an open court procedure; in the event of a labour dispute, Mr. Deputy. What I can assure you is that since the government we deeply regret the personal situation of the accused and that we respect his principle of presumption of innocence, I assure you. But in any case, we are ahead of a judicial process that is what will have to solve the events that happened in 2012. Certainly, the ERO was published a year later.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.6.0	That the corporation is theoretically independent is true, that it is a problem that affects everyone is also true; you yourself have reunited with the workers, did not do this thing that has done to me right now. Simply, it is a political issue that also affects the good functioning of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation and that is why we understand that the Government's position is interesting and influential. We think, therefore – and with this I insist on the question that we have asked – if it does not seem to the Government, that a possible condemnation would be a way of throwing salt at the wound, at the relations between the workers and the direction of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation, instead of contributing to passing the page. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.8.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Member, these facts to which you refer were, in concrete terms, the illegal entry into the computer and electronic correspondence of three corporate professionals and the filtering of data from all professionals, data still strictly protected by you. It is not true that the corporation has the obligation to make public all and every set of data that were filtered. These facts were placed in knowledge of the Squadron Mosses. He filed a complaint so that he could investigate them, and from that moment on, judges and prosecutors acted as offices to clarify the alleged violation of workers' rights. Therefore, we are ahead of an investigation ordered by the instructional court. Certainly, the same committees, both TV3 and Catalunya Radio – to whom I greet and with whom, of course, we met a few weeks ago and listened – denounced these facts very harshly and referred to their communications and their statements. Therefore, it must be the judicial sphere where these facts are to be clarified in coherence with what everyone, both the corporation and the very representatives of the workers, demanded at that time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about university taxes]] [[310-00093/11]] Second question, about university taxes. The question is posed by Mr. Joan Giner, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.10.0	Thank you, President. Some are very indignant because Mr. Fernández Díaz is still not in the prosecution. We share this, but we are equally outraged that the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation wants to be one of its seven-year prison workers. [[Some applause.]] That said, it's July. And what's good news for some, that vacations are getting closer, for others not so much, is that the students still don't know what prices they'll pay for the year they go to college, especially after the drop of 30 percent of the materials that we approved this Parliament in the month of April. When will the price decree be published? Will they take note of the parliamentary mandate, of what was approved in April?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. Business and Knowledge Advisor, Mr. Jordi Baiget, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.12.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, the Preus Decree, the preliminary draft of the Preus Decree, was presented at the last session of the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia and now the administrative process is taking place if, therefore, the Government. And the price decree will fit the presuppositional reality that we have: a situation of presuppositional prorogation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.14.0	The other day we saw in The Newspaper a letter from a father who wrote to his son because he could not pay for his university. I think the harshness of the reality she's seen deserves a more worked-out answer to get started. And we don't just give it to each other. The other day, the university community in a unitary gesture – rector, students and workers – were demanding this downgrading of subjects, demanding a change in the model of universities, and what I'm saying is that actually what they're asking is to fulfill a parliamentary mandate. It's as simple as that. Don't we think this Parliament is going to rise? What's with the sobriety? So, the sobriety is obeyed manar. And what we are demanding is that I leave the practices of this government to fail to carry out parliamentary mandates systematically and to complete the parliamentary mandate. Also, we have to see it, huh? The debate I was proposing was about free education, we have to see... superior. We believe that this is the model to be advanced – we, the rectors, the university community – and that it is a model that starts to hear university as a social good, higher education as a social good, and not as a co-sponsorship complement for some. And it's what you think – and it's a warning that I want to give it – that the university community, when it's united, is stronger than it looks, and the year that you can find the faculties closed, the students on the street next to the professors and the rectors claiming responsibility. Whose responsibilities? Responsibilities of those who do not respect the sovereignty of this Parliament, this people and responsibilities of those who do not believe in the Catalan university system. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.15.0	Counselor responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.16.0	Mr Miri, honourable Member, speaking of work-related responses, yours, before assumptions that there were more than 800_million and that allowed more resources to be available for social policies could also have been more well-worked. [[Some applause.]] Then, second..., according to what I want to do to you: when you talk about all the university and all the university community..., listen, we, as the government, will listen to all the proposals that the university community tells us. And let's hope and trust that they are more responsible than determining options and positions that are fan of the politics of these parliaments. Then, we, like the country, have to decide what we want, because we don't have infinite assumptions. And we have to decide what we want: we have to decide whether we want a free university education or maybe we care, or we want like the country and like society, that teaching from zero to three, that it is not free, and we also want there to be more democratic dynamism in this country, then, the free woman. Because we don't have resources for everything. Another thing..., they say: "The free university. There are countries that have free college, but they pay co-pay for sanitation. Not us. And that's a country option. And this... this is an option for this Parliament, and this is what we have to decide among all of us, but we feel responsible for it. Why, do you know what the top priority in the field of universities we have today is? Retrieving the 30_millions that for the first time were destined for universities and that for the first time they were stuck to the initial premise, and that so it is possible to consolidate, and now, as we do not have assumptions, we do not have them. This is our reality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the actions planned by the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food to improve the management of waste management and to ensure the viability and sustainability of waste management and the meat sector]] [[310-00097/11]] Third question to the Government, on the actions planned for the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food to improve the management of the branches and guarantee the viability and sustainability of the branches and the meat sector. The question is posed by Mrs. Violant Cervera, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.18.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor, agricultural production and timber is one of the basic pillars of our production system in Catalonia, namely 3.8_percent of gross value added. These days, that we are in the fruit campaign – and from here we hope that time will accompany us in the harvest – we also hope that the priests will be better and fairer. We would, however, like to ask it for another of our primary sectors, the ramader, and concretely on the pig sector, economic environment that represents 32,4_percent of the total agricultural product and that occupies more than twenty_ thousand people. We are all aware that rowing production, and in particular pig production, produces a very large quantity of residues that are very difficult to manage, and we, from Junts to Yes, want to value the effort of all rowers at the time of being able to adapt their farms to this need to respect the environment. This is a sector that, I understand the need, has been able to adapt to all the normal changes. At a given time, adapting to the welfare of animals; at another time, betting on biogas plants that turned these purins into fuels, which, therefore, produced energy and which, because of the state's regulations, were unworkable and the efforts of their investors; and also since 1990 in the better management of all discharges, with the modernisation of storage, the application of new technologies in the treatment, change of diets in animals or the adequacy of food systems. Also to reduce this amount of nitrates that today have the purins of the animals. Now, as much as the effort and progress that has been made in environmental matters, we know that the government considers it necessary to take a step further to give strict compliment to what community regulations set out in matters of water and soil. It is for this reason, Counselor, that we would like to be informed whether from the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food have more planned actions in order to guarantee the viability and sustainability of the farms and of the Catalan farm sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.19.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Serret, Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.20.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member of the Commission, I thank the question. From the Department of Agriculture we are promoting an integral strategy based on excellence in organic fertilisation with the aim of reducing nitrate contamination of our aquifers and to improve and guarantee the sustainability and competitiveness of the agro-branch sector and the carnic sector, by extension. And this strategy is based on three great axes. The first, better and innovative on the same farm, as you mentioned, to reduce the discards and improve its handling. The second great thing is to innovate and improve the application to the soil: to make excellent fertilization and to expand the use of organic adobs in front of the use of chemical adobs. The third great issue is better and better control, with a more continuous follow-up and much more analytical than soil, water and the same purins or adobes. And all these great lines we will implement through five great main tools. The first are computer applications, computer applications that will help us to make a more rigorous trace of the discharges and also a continuous follow-up through the application of Dun with annual declarations of these management plans. The second great tool is the Fertilization and Treatment Systems Office, which must be and is the neuralgic center in advice, training, innovation and research, and which must be the information control pole of how these management plans are developed. The third big line is help. Already from the PDR we are targeting 15_million help to the sector to help in this fertility strategy, and also pushing an inversion platform to access Juncker plaza so that treatment plants can be truly viable and sustainable and can give out to surplus purins, and other placards and other initiatives that we are going to make with the sector; and above all, there is only one decree; the decree, an adapted and effective regulation that we will bring here to Parliament in the proper weeks and that must gather all this strategy. As the sector and the department think we have to fold, we must maintain the sector's commitment to the sustainability of its activity and reiterate the support of the department to the sector because we are aware of its strategic value for socio-economic development, territorial cohesion and also for the country's environmental sustainability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the situation of Catalonia in the Administration of Justice]] [[310-00098/11]] Fourth question to the Government, on the situation of Catalonia in the Administration of Justice. The question is posed by Mr. Jordi Orobig of the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.22.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Councillor of Justice, a few months ago I had the opportunity to ask him about the impossibility of proving access to the law in Catalan. This June, his department made public the data on the number of judicial resolutions issued in catalá the year 2015. From the statistical and, therefore, objective data, it turns out that only a 8.4 of the judicial resolutions dictated by the jurisdictional organs to our country, Catalonia – I repeat, an 8.4 – have been dictated in Catalan, which is considered the worst given of the last two years. This data refers to the average of the whole country, except that demarcations such as Tarragona and Ebre Lands present even more alarming percentages of 3.6 and 5.5_per_cent respectively. The empirical knowledge that comes from more than three hundred years of relationship tells us that no solution to this problem will come from the Spanish Government, as well as the recommendations, warnings and, at last, toilets that have been made since the Council of Europe because of the lack of application of the co-official languages of the State in the field of public administration. And he won't do it because of his indifference, when he doesn't want it, to the most elementary fundamental human rights and democratic principles. And to such respect, it is only worth remembering that I kept confidence in someone like the current Minister of Interior, Jorge Fernández Díaz. It is such the impunity and shame of those who drive against democratic principles and at the same time the defencelessness that we live in those who legitimately claim to work actively in search of a state that guarantees for our citizens in a better and new country that, at this game of disarrays, would result from the fact that Mr. Daniel de Alfonso – who we hope today will cease his role as director of the Antifrau Agency of Catalonia – can expect to be appointed Minister of Justice of the Government of Spain, possibly as a reward for the services provided. Given this situation and the positive evidence of the lack of tools in the current competition regime, it is interesting to know to this parliamentary group what measures it believes should be taken to reverse the situation of the use of catalá in the field of the Administration of Justice and also if it is possible to adopt them within the legal framework in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.23.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by Mr. Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.24.0	Good morning, President. Mr. Deputy, thank you very much for the question. Certainly, the Catalonian Justice Administration is in a residual situation, in an emergency situation, and I think it is important not to relativize this given or to look for positive aspects, because they are not there. The year 2015 alone 8,4_per_cent of the feelings were dictated in Catalan language, which is the same as saying that 91.6_per_cent of the feelings were dictated in Spanish language and, therefore, before this reality the first one we have to do is – with pain, because it is an absolutely disgusting situation – not to share this situation and to highlight before the citizenry that we are in an emergency situation and that the català to justice is residual. And it is, not because there is a lack of knowledge in the field of Fairness Administration; because more than 70_percent of the staff of the Fairness Administration believe they have a knowledge of the Catalan language of level B2 or higher and, therefore, it is not this problem that explains that the Fairness Administration does not use the Catalan language in the most normal way, as is done in other areas. In fact, the Administration of Justice counts with many tools, counts with the linguistic dynamotizers to facilitate this task and, therefore, insists, it is not a problem of media. The Council of Europe – you have emphasized this – in a resolution of the 20th generation of this year asked the Spanish State to modify the legal framework to make it clear that the criminal, civil, administrative judicial authorities in the autonomous communities can end their work also with the use of official languages. And that is not possible, I have addressed the Minister of Justice and I have addressed the President of the General Council of the Judiciary claiming what measures they intend to take in compliment of this resolution of the Council of Europe, and the answer I have obtained by writing is that everything is fine, that it cannot change. Therefore, the Department of Justice will continue to engage in estimative policies, impulse policies, but what we will not do safely is miracles until the standard mark does not change. The standard mark establishes that in Catalonia, within the scope of the Administration of Justice, there is a language which is obligatory, which is the Spanish language, there is a language which is only optional and is not compulsory on the part of the workers of the Administration of Justice, neither for the judges and magistrates, nor for the readers of the Administration of Justice, which is the Catalan language. This situation of legal asymmetry explains that the català is residual in the Administration of Justice and, given the precedents, certainly only with the tools of a state we will have the possibility to reverse it, because we feel that some say that they will break their faces to speak in castle to Catalonia, but in change we have heard no word of concern because the català is residual to the Administration of Justice. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.25.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the evolution of the industry in 2015]] [[310-00099/11]] Five questions, about the evolution of the industry in 2015. The question is posed by Mr. Jordi Munell, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.26.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs, MPs, members of the government. Counselor Baiget, Catalonia has been, and we want to continue to be a country of industrial and entrepreneurial vocation. Today, industry accounts for 20_percent of the country's GDP, and more than 50_percent if we consider the different sectors of activity associated with industry. The more industrialised economies are more internationalized and innovative, generate a more stable and quality occupation and enjoy greater welfare and social cohesion. In parallel, the importance of two sectors such as logistics and tourism is also highlighted. All of them, with the industry, are driving the economy and flushing out other sectors, such as services and trade. Over the years, the government has promoted shared industrial policies with the economic and social agents of the country, which have adapted to the different realities and needs of the global, European and entrepreneurial economic environment of every moment, huh? We will remember the recent years of clustering policies and quality policies, but for the year 2000, passing through sectoral framework policies and strategic agreements for the competitiveness of the Catalan economy, the social dialogue. Also, further, all the themes of internationalization of the economy. They are all action plans that, as it was before, the Government has driven with the support of social agents always looking for this import and relevancy of industry as a motor of innovation and internationalization of the Catalan economy. The commitment and willingness to have a solid industry has also been one of the concerns of the different economic and social agents and the same government, as I said. More recently, the 2014 industrial strategy has been designed in line with the smart specialisation strategy, the RIS3 programmes and the 2020 industrial strategy of the European Union, or, last but not least, the announcement a few days ago by the very honorable President Puigdemont to agree a major national pact for industry with the involvement of the economic and social and political agents of our country. Today we have a diversified industry, small and medium-sized, but of high added value, innovative and competitive, internationally well positioned to face the challenges ahead. The impulse of industry must generate wealth and quality occupation, which is the best guarantee of the preservation and the best of the welfare state and is a priority objective in the economic recovery of the country; an objective today widely shared. Counselor Baiget, for this reason we would like to ask you what value it has made...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.27.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.28.0	... by the Government on the evolution of the Catalan industry in 2015.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.29.0	Reply, Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.30.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, as you said, industry is a very important sector for our country and our economy. And it's not just because it represents 20_percent of the country's total production, but because thanks to its services, it's around it and it generates, so we get to 50_percent. So it's important because it's an internationalization vector, it's an innovation vector, and it's a quality job creation vector. That's why every year of Action is producing an annual report on the industry in which it monitors what are the main results, and it can be said that the year 2015 the evolution of the main indicators is positive. If we focus on the most important ones, in the evolution of the occupation we see that the number of workers in the industrial sector, according to the EPA, grew to 23,700 people, which means an increase of 4.3_per_cent; it is the highest rate of the last two years. But we can say, "Well, there's not only the EPA. If we look at the results of social security affiliation, exactly the same; and if we look at how the recorded event evolves, exactly the same: it dropped a 15.2_per_cent, the best result since 1999. Therefore, it improves the industrial occupation in the year 2015, important. Growing up? The value added industry grew by 2.7_per_cent, the highest rate of the last five years and a point above what it grew in the euro area, and the index of industrial production grew by 2.6_per_cent, also – even – higher than it grew in the Spanish State and the euro area. If we look at the index of confidence, which indicates how it will evolve and how it will evolve, then the outlook of the industry, seen for the same industrial ones, therefore, the evolution is positive; it is also in exports, it is also in reverse and it is also in foreign investment; foreign industrial investment, which, yesterday, after three years of intense negotiations between Incasól and Acción, has materialized one of these investments that will be left to be heard: today it was made public the purchase of some land from Incasól to the Prat de Llobregat by Amazon, which will make there be 1,500 more skilled workers, one year from now to our country, and this is important. And we're still working. And you were talking to me for 2015, but I am advancing that the 2016 indicators of this first quarter are positive for what it does to the evolution of the growth of industrial production and for what it does also...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.31.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.32.0	...to the evolution...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.33.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.34.0	...from the creation of jobs to industry... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.35.0	Ask the Government about access to the staff of the Institut Català de la Salut. [[Ask the Government about access to the staff of the Institut Català de la Salut]] [[310-00095/11]] The question is posed by Mr Jorge Soler, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.36.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Comín, two days ago the oppositions of the Catalan Institute of Health were realized. How do you value them? What's your opinion about the organization? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.37.0	Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.38.0	Thank you, Madam President. Benvolute deputy, as you know, after six years, we finally managed to make a public offer of seats at the ICS, after six years. They offered 340 seats, they presented more than a thousand people, and you have to imagine that the first person interested in this admonition that works perfectly is the Health Advisor. We know that there have been incidents, and at this time, we are actually studying them and analyzing them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.39.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.40.0	Counselor Comín, you are well aware of the stated expectations that there is in any opposition: there is no opposition every year, you have said it well; the job insecurity at the Catalan Institute of Health is very high, and overcoming an opposition is almost – and unfortunately added – the exceptional opportunity that improves the contracts and job protections of workers. In the current opposition there are 44 places for family doctors, with 1,300 admissions; 136 places for infirmary for 7,700 admissions, and 55 places for auxiliaries, with 3,450 admissions. In one of the classrooms, the light went off and the students used their phones for two minutes, with WhatsApp and the Internet. Oppositions are based on equal merits and opportunity, and allow this to break these principles. There can be no directives from the Catalan Institute of Health and members of the court preparing oppositions. I will not talk about the response template found in Viladecans two days before the exam, with the name of an opponent. Organizational problems are clear and obvious. But, beyond the organizational disaster, we are also concerned, counselor, about the few places called. I suppose you've read carefully the report of Barcelona's Official College of Metges, as well as the reports of the nursing, auxiliary, etc. unions. Precariousness is inadmissible. We are talking about a call that does not meet the objectives of the opposition: to stabilize the workforce and ensure equal pay and work rights. If someone is not present, the work bag will be penalized. We're familiar with victimistic responses. Already I anticipate that today or they will blame Madrid, or perhaps those who do not approve of some assumptions, that they were unfair, as did the advisor that the previous one, or maybe today will charge another report to the Aquas, I don't know. Miri, in the last five years we've lost a thousand family members, and you've called forty-four seats; you've lost 786 infirmary seats, and you've called 136. His government took the interim to make them substitutes at hours. The staff's retail policy is far removed from what many Catalans would like. As you say, after six years, so these are the evidence. Thank you very much, Counsellor; thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.41.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.42.0	Yeah. Mr. Deputy, this is the meeting of the ICS working table with all the unions; it is a monthly meeting, and obviously the theme of the meeting will be to discuss the incidents that have occurred at this meeting. But I also told him a little bit about the information you give, which has not just been quite accurate. For example, with regard to information filtering, the ICS explains that information on questions has been leaked at the moment. And what's the proof? The same complaint filed. The same complaint explains that what has been found is the instructions to be followed by the head of the classroom and the barcode system to be used to identify the full response of the test. Therefore, if the same complainant already dismisses the facts as you report them, we should be a little more rigorous. For what he does to the heights of the light. Yes, yes, we are aware of the heights of the light. You will understand that this is an incident that could not be anticipated by the ICS. This opposition was made in five – one in Tarragona, Girona and Lleida, and due to Barcelona, Pompeu Fabra and Faculty of Law of the University of Barcelona – and, indeed, of the forty-four classrooms of Pompeu Fabra University where tests were made in thirteen, in the last minutes of the test, there were some sizes of light between three and seven minutes. This will be analysed and discussed directly with the unions. Now, let's go to the major, let's get to the subject. Did you know that this year this government was planning to make a public offer of seats at the ICS of more than a thousand seats? Do you know that this was the prediction that this government had? , convert a thousand inters into fixed, a thousand, which was a 25_percent of all inters that have been created over the last five years, in which for the Spanish law we could not oppose, for the Spanish law, and now, finally, we could convert to fixed 25_percent of the inters? Do you know why we didn't? Because this room has not allowed the approval of the assumptions. That's what keeps us from turning into a thousand inters. [[Some applause.]] Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.43.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the situation of self-employed workers]] [[310-00096/11]] Ask the government about the situation of self-employed workers. The question is posed by Mrs Laura Vílchez, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.44.0	Thank you, President. The Statute for Self-Employment had been adopted for nine years. Six years ago the Generalitat signed a decree for its application in Catalonia. Among other measures, this decree announced already in 2010 the constitution of the Conseil Català del Treball Autònom, a framework of dialogue where self-employed workers could feel represented and where their demands could be assessed. Four years later, in 2014, Ciutadans succeeded in adopting a resolution calling for the creation of this council. Last March we had to re-emphasize and re-adopt unanimously in this plenary session. A few weeks ago the Government published that the call for the constitution of the Català Council of the Autonom Work would take place between May and June. With these precedents, and by the dates we are, counsel, when do they finally plan to set up the Català Council of the Autonomous Work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.45.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.46.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, honourable Member, for the question. As you know, our intention is to convene the Autonomous Work Council of Catalonia. The problems do not come for Government – we are working there from the General Directorate of Social Economy, also from the General Directorate of Labour Relations – ; the problem goes for the representativeness of employers of self-employed workers, and this you know very well, that there is a lot of representativeness and there is no agreement in which it must be its representativeness in the Council of Self-Employment. We have donated this month as at the end, and at the end of this month, if they do not decide, as we did with the representativeness of employers to be able to summon the SOC and to summon the other organs, we will decide directly from the government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.47.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.48.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the truth is that the self-employed don't say that. They tell us this government forgets about them. And obviously the Català Council of Autonomous Work is neither expected nor expected. We believe that its constitution is urgent, because from here you will have to come up with bets decided by entrepreneurs and for the promotion of self-employment. As you well know, the Generalitat of Catalonia can do much more for them. They need funding, they need support programmes that are paralysed, they need administrative simplification and they need funding and training. This could begin to move the already, and, where they do not arrive, coordinate with the rest of the administrations, if not, do not hesitate that we will continue to insist here and where necessary. You have to know that the autonomous in Catalonia represent almost 20_percent of the working population and you have to understand that they cannot continue without even a clear representation as they do have other collectives. Review the budget of the state structures and invest in those that raise every day Catalonia. With all this, Counselor, the best thing I could do is start by recognizing that the self-employed are not their priority or have never been. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.49.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.50.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, I think the problem is that they're not his priority and he doesn't know what he's talking about. First thing, he told me about the council, the representativeness. I said so. You know that we are making a lot of efforts; so much effort that we carry from two departments: we carry it from the Department of Enterprise and the Department of Work together because they feel well attached to the autonomies, both those that start now with many projects of Enterprise and Action, like those that are consolidated with the projects from the Department of Treball. But, look, if you're so concerned, I'm sure you'll know that from Catalonia we only have the ability to do active policies and support programs, and that what the autonomes would need right now is to have more skills because what we want is to change the quota system, what we want is quotas that are adjusted to the entry and the fair taxation of the autonomes, to the suppression, to the end, of some quotas for which they have minimum income below the minimum wage, and that's where we don't have competitions. Therefore, we need to have a state, we need to be competent and we don't take off from Madrid, which is where you can ask these questions, which you can solve. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.51.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the management of enterovirus cases]] [[310-00100/11]] He asks the government about the management of enterovirus cases. The question is posed by Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.52.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, the past May 17th was made public by the Department of Health that an outbreak of neuroviruses with severe neurologic effects had been detected, and precisely the severity of neurologic effects was what called attention in this case, and that this outbreak had been detected, you had detected it on May 6th. You appeared before the Parliament's Health Committee on May 26th to explain in relation to this issue. Among other things, he explained to us that, from May 17th, of the department's first communication, he kept abreast of the evolution of this bud until that day, until May 26th, in which his words – he considered that the bud was stabilized and that, from that moment on, the information would be donated weekly. The latest information available is from June 22nd, and the information is that if May 26th was sixty, the cases, June 22nd were no longer ninety-nine: thirteen children admitted, four to intensive care units. On June 21, precisely, another alarm is set, which is the death of a three-year-old boy in Mataró, who, if the information given is that surely there can be no link, surely the fever of this information kept the alarm lights on. Counselor, we would like to know what is the current situation of this enterovirus outbreak, if the department has taken new measures to address it most effectively, and, taking into account the abnormality of this situation, for the number of cases of affected children, and for the condition, which is only in Catalonia, we would also like to know whether they are investigating who may be the origin of this outbreak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.53.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.54.0	Yes, thank you. Mr. Member, I want to begin by thanking you for the whole question, because I believe that in these fears it must be exquisite, it must be responsible, and I believe that you, with all of you, at least on this first question, have followed it. I'll give you the current data today. Today we have a total accumulated – I insist on that of "accumulated – of one hundred_one cases, of which today there are only three in ICUs, and six hospitalizations; therefore, of the six, three are in ICUs and three are on the floor. This means that the rest of the cases are cases that have already been given high, because when the cases are piled up, it does not mean that we are sick..., a hundred-one people at these times, but at the length of the outbreak there are a hundred-one children who have been sick at some point. The epidemiological raven, clearly – we had the chance to prove it the other day in a medium of public communication – is decreasing, which allows us to say that the bud has not finished, but actually the bud at these times is, as at least, decreasing. We, from the first moment on... – and you recognized it at my appearance in Parliament –, "we want to say the Catalonian health system, its professionals: the heads of service of Vall d'Hebron, the emergency officials of the rest of the hospitals, the teachers of primary care... – and you unanimously recognized it, all the parliamentary groups, which I appreciate – we have reacted with absolute assistance effectiveness. A care effectiveness so absolute that you know what's going on in these moments, Mr. Rodriguez? – and with this I don't want to give information that doesn't correspond to me. What happens is that professionals from the rest of the autonomous communities of Spain at these times are asking advice, information, they are asking our head of pediatric service in Catalonia, because it is likely that at these times there are unidentified buds or unrecognized buds in the rest of the State, and that is difficult. Because the fact that this outbreak is not identified in the event that it is confirmed, and therefore that special protocols have not been activated in the rest of the State, this may cause patients to be at risk at these times. Catalonia's done the opposite. To make a special protocol the same day that the bud was detected, I insist, the same day, May 6, that the bud was detected was made the table of emergences, did the special protocol and was acting with maximum epidemiological and care vigilance from the first minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.55.0	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.56.0	Is there no answer?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.57.0	Don't you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.58.0	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.59.0	[[The president laughs.]] The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.60.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. I don't think his answer had the same concern that we have expressed the question to him. Counselor, we know that there are those who demand responsibility for this situation. We do not ask them, we ask them for more responsibility and, on the other hand, we offer them compromises to put an end to this situation that is distressing many families. Occupy's– occupy's– from that which passes to salvation in Catalonia and band deixi other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.61.0	Thank you very much. [[For technical reasons, a few words of the President's intervention have not been recorded.]] Counselor responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.62.0	Mr. Congressman, you know who's taking responsibility for the Health Councilman at these times does it on the basis of a mistake that is to say that the protocol was sent past 17, or past 13, or past May 15, when the protocol everyone knows that it was sent on the 6th. So, clearly this time, what remains clear is that the responsibility of the council and the professionals has been maximum...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.63.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.64.0	...maximum.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.65.0	...has run out of time. [[Ask the Government about Logis Penedès]] [[310-00094/11]] Ask the government about Logis Penedès. The question is posed by Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.66.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, in this chamber have approved various resolutions for the development of the logistics center of Penedès; 2012, 2013 and 2015. Despite this, this action, which the director has approved, has not been developed for the Government of the Generality. What is the government's understanding of this performance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.67.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.68.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are conditioned by some elements that are relevant. The first is the performance of the General Administration of the State in relation to large infrastructures, which are those that can be used and enabled to this equipment. We are talking about the A-7, we are talking about the Mediterranean Corridor, without which it is obvious that they are never able to generate the demand that is required. This is a first element and the second is working to consolidate a territorial consensus. This is what the Government of Catalonia is doing at this time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.69.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.70.0	Thank you. We assume that when you speak, counselor, of consent you must be the same consensus that you must consider when you approved the Pla Director of the Logis or the resolutions that you said before. In any case, the region of Baix Penedès is the largest index of Catalonia, according to data from April 2016, the tax is 22.25_per_cent. In the face of this situation, the government cannot stand by, as it seeks actions that presuppose the creation of the region's occupation and economic recovery. In this sense, the logistics center of Penedès is an opportunity, according to a study of the University of Rovira and Virgil would suppose the creation of five thousand places of direct work and nine thousand indirect. On the other hand, we have to bear in mind that the majority of lands where this logistics center is to be located are already owned by CIMALSA, a company of the Generality specialized in the promotion and management of logistics centers, which has stated that with the existing infrastructures... – what you refer to at the first point –, said that with the existing infrastructures, at the present time, you could pull between a 15 and a 25_per_cent of the Logis. At times, a few weeks ago, the Generality's Catalonia Trade and Investment, meeting with political and social agents from the region, declared that the exit to the economic stagnation and occupation situation currently experienced by the region was logistical activity. How can it be, counsel, that your government continues to do nothing with the Logis Penedès when there is such a clear need, when they have the instruments to act and when the same public enterprises say that logistics is opportunity. Do they hold the government's action for discrepancies between Convergence and Esquerra over this issue? Do you think you can put up with this – like others – until the question of trust is resolved? Can you tell the country what you're thinking of doing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.71.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Counselor responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.72.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member of the Commission, in the end you have given your answer to this question. The question is: do they disagree much Convergence and Republican Left on this issue? Answer: No. We are doing well and we are working properly sharing some of the elements that you have put on the table: we share the concern about the level of progress, important, that has the region of Baix Penedès and we share the need that infrastructures should not pass through Catalonia but that they should connect Catalonia, and therefore these intermodal hubs, both the Logis Empordà, that of the Llagosta, that of the Port of Barcelona, that of the Penedès, are important. But what is decisive is to see how we do it – if you let me use the half-way of Russian children – and what we need is that there is a first piece that fits us, that are these great infrastructures that make this Logis feel. That is to say, with a 340 passing through the middle of Arboç, at these times not being able to capture demand for this Logis, it is impossible. And we don't know what the government of the State's grasp is with respect to A-7, or with respect to the Mediterranean Railway Corridor, that's the problem and that's the background problem. And, therefore, what are we doing? We have the scheme in place, we are working with the territory to achieve this consensus, but it is decisive: if there are not these great infrastructures, if we do not know a certain calendar, the problem is that operators will not come to us, we are going to the Mediterranean Corridor. Do you know the opportunities this country is losing just because of this unpredictability? Basf himself, in the Port of Tarragona, or Daimler, in the Port of Tarragona, or the problems we have with the Logis Empordà, this is the theme of the fund. And, therefore, what we would ask you is that the same firmness that you have at the time of requesting this intermodal hub, you also have at the time of demanding the Government of the State to unlock it once and for all the calendar. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.73.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the appointment of the new Director of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia]] [[317-00063/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political and social situation. The question is posed by Mr Benet Salellas de la Candidature d'Unit Popular - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.74.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, President. This week, the keystone of the State was unveiled from the hand of Opus Dei Minister, Fernández Díaz, and a director of the Antifrau Office, Daniel de Alfonso, a Spanish jutge and conservative – one, let's say, much to the Catalan judiciary – who was chosen precisely for an ICU-PP-PSC pact, it is to say, that this director who today we dismiss, this « cable of his National Police is the son of the remembrance of the 78th Regime, of his prison, and of the Autonomous Convergence, at the least that it was until the year 2011. His dismissal, we know it will cause the deputy director, Maite Masià, to take over the office. We have already said this many times, we do not trust this deputy director, who appears in the telephone interventions of the case of ITV, the case in which the former secretary general of Convergence, Oriol Pujol, is already accused. Well, for us, it's time to open a pre-republication stage in this Anti-Fraud Office and, for that reason, we have entered a writing, this same morning, to the Government and the Bureau of Parliament, which demands that it be given the fastest to designate – which is an obligation of its Government – to make the new proposal of director for this Anti-Fraud Office. Can we guarantee that your government will proceed with this designation as quickly as possible, because once the removal of De Alfonso has taken place, can we also quickly remove Maite Masia and start this pre-republication phase of the Anti-Fraud Office?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.75.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply Mr Carles Puigdemont, President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.76.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, first let's leave everything for the moment. The Government is indeed close to taking on the responsibility – the Government, the President – to make a proposal, but you will understand that, at this point in time, it seems to me that we should expect the debate to take on board the orientation that this body must have in order to be able to make some proposal that is in line with the maximum possible consensus. Let 'em, but, previously, some..., a couple of considerations about some of the reflections he's made. I thought you were putting us in the bag of the culprits. And we're victims. Because he tried to destroy himself. And we're victims of state keystroke operations. They wanted to destroy themselves and they paid themselves confidentially to make false reports and even we have to be double victims, because there are people who, from these rubble, have not been politically resolved. And I want to remind you that Mr. Trias was falsely accused and that someone, on these false accusations, accused us of mobsters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.77.0	Thank you very much, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.78.0	Yes, company Albert Botran, this morning, already addressed a question to his Government about the case of the accusation of a TV3 worker in which it was precisely explained that it is called seven years in prison for a leak of documents, right? In the case that I was commenting on, therefore, Mr. De Alfonso, for the little we know, for the little we know of this rotten iceberg, we know that he has leaked a lot of information to the minister of Opus Dei, that is to say, he has violated his obligation of secrecy, obviously, in a very long list of crimes. Tanmateix, nor Mossos d'Esquadra has proceeded to detain Mr. De Alfonso, nor has anyone said until today, nor the same government in defense of the institutions of Catalonia, which will proceed to denounce Mr. De Alfonso before the courts. He will understand that we have a certain sense of unequal justice: that the lower one is being asked for a very harsh justice and that the upper ones, like Mr. De Alfonso, can come out with an obvious sense of impunity. Therefore, what we would ask the government is, please, what steps it will take to ensure that there is no impunity before the leaks and the absolute, let's say, lewdness and violation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.79.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.80.0	...in secret that Mr. De Alfonso had?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.81.0	...has run out of time. Thank you very much. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.82.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. MP, you're talking to me about two bodies that are under the control of Parliament and not the government. And, therefore, it is the Parliament that has to make the decisions, and I hope that it will take them, both in one case and the other, or, in any case, of the pipelines that may be in each of these bodies. We are certainly ahead of one of the hardest scandals of democracy, which is the use of the State to attack political opponents. Maybe we're getting used to it, sad, but we shouldn't get used to it. And that happens and it's very heartwarming that, as this happens, as the minister escapes from giving explanations to the Spanish Parliament for using it in a way – and I quote from the Justices for Democracy – "illegal and abusive, to make illegal and abusive use of democratic institutions, such as the judiciary and the prosecution, just as this happens – while this doesn't happen – we know that President Mas, Vice President Ortega or Councilwoman Rigau will be sent to court to allow the exercise of democracy. What can we do? I'll tell you very quickly: so, leave as soon as possible, because in a state like this we can't take much longer. [[Greetings.]] And as a madrileny democrat used to say... [[The applause continues.]] And as a madrileny Democrat said now a couple of years ago, powerless before the possibilities of changing things, he said: "Vascos, Catalans, run away that you can. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.83.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the presentation of the question of trust before the holidays]] [[317-00064/11]] He asked the president about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.84.0	Mr President, a previa: I remind you that the Anti-Fraud Office does not depend on what you call "the state's cloaques"; it refers to this Parliament. So let's say things as they are. [[Widow's remorse.]] From here, remind him, Mr President, that a few weeks ago you lost the majority of Parliament, the majority in this Parliament. This forced you to present a question of confidence, a question of confidence deferred to four_months. This situation, Mr President, causes uncertainty, causes a situation of temporaryity in the government that you preside, causes paralysis in government action. And that is why we believe from the People's Party of Catalonia that it is necessary that you present this question of confidence immediately during the month of July. The question is: Mr President, are you planning to go on vacation between a few weeks like this, and will we see each other in September and present the question of trust, or are you willing to present this question of trust in July and then present a plan of government for the proper months?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.85.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.86.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, I don't know if the government has a right to vacation or not. I suppose you do, and you don't have to discuss the right of the government, and the president, to be able to take a vacation. I also remind you that, precisely, if we have just made some Spanish elections three days ago, it is because there was-there was the inopportunity of Spanish politics to resolve what was the burden of the citizens who there was a government that is set to work. This government works, this government doesn't work, this government works, as you've seen in some of the advisors' answers. Yesterday a reversal was announced that worked for three years. They will announce more things in the next few weeks, because the government is near the cane and will be until the end of the day, and will not delegate its responsibilities to anyone, nor will it escape the control of Parliament. It is more: it has put Parliament at the top of everything, at the top of the pyramid of the democratic system, and it is in the Parliament where I intend to give accounts, explain, gather confidence and know whether there is or is not, unlike what its candidate has done so far, which has managed to pass a whole legislature, very briefly, for sure, without having to compare a single time to give explanations to the Congress of Deputies. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.87.0	Thank you very much, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.88.0	Mr President, you still have no answer to my question: will you go on vacation as it is, without presenting a plan of action and without having presented the question of trust? If that's what it is, I have to tell her with sincerity that we think it's an irresponsible attitude. It's more like, I'm gonna tell him he's probably got a learner, huh? , which is Mr. Cameron, with whom they could go from the handlebar, who said he will present the resignation between four_months. So, well, I think I'm one for the other. Because, as I said, this situation creates insecurity from a point of view no longer only political or institutional, but also economic. And you were talking about investments and you were talking about money. Allow me to give you a quote: the foreign investment to Catalonia in the past year has fallen by 50_per_cent, and, for example, to the Community of Madrid, as little as we all think, has increased by 43_per_cent. Therefore, this makes it clear that it is no longer only and exclusively a matter of having a government, its own, that depend on an anti-system party, and that it is no longer just the months that have passed since the legislature were you under the mark of this anti-system party, but its future and the future of the government of Catalonia, and therefore the future of all Catalans, is in the hands of this party. And in the end, that ends up passing the bill. Mr President, we would like to remind you, and we would like to insist on the fact that we believe it is a difficult mistake that you insist on keeping your government paralyzed...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.89.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.90.0	...and, therefore, politics..., and trust in the Parliament of Catalonia and the Government of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.91.0	There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.92.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, I believe that the main anti-system is the Spanish government, and it is the Minister of the Interior, the still Minister of the Interior. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] And you, who liked democracy so much, had a fantastic occasion to ask that Mr. Fernández Diaz attend the Permanent Congress of the Congress of Deputies to give some explanation, because it seems to me that some explanation, this gentleman, before going on vacation, I hope that definitives, should give it. [[Rialles.]] I must thank you for comparing me to Mr. Cameron. I thank you very much, and I thank you very much. Because, yes, sir, it's a model of democracy. A Lord who allows you to vote Escòcia, a Lord who when you have doubts as to whether his people agree or not to belong to the European Union and summons a reference, and from the results of the reference assumes his political responsibilities, believe 'that it is a model worthy to follow his example. And I recommend you that your own president of the Spanish government follow exactly the Cameron model, because all folds would go much better. Among other things, it does many things that have democracy. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.93.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the hypothesis of the re-editing of a government of the People's Party State]] [[317-00065/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.94.0	Thank you, President. Well, today seems like a day of indignation. But we wouldn't want to miss the opportunity to express our concern about the fact that political life is still being judicialized and that it is still proceeding against Mr. But, against Mrs. Ortega, against Mrs. Rigau, against Mr. Homs, and that's bad news for democracy. We wanted to make sense of this. Look, there have just been a few general elections and we are still in the process of forming the new government in Madrid. And it is obvious that the nature and festivity of this new execution will end up affecting very directly, logically, the living conditions of Catalonian citizens and the yearnings of this country. While the obvious difficulty in the light of the results, I can assure you that the political space of change and transformation that we represent will work until the last moment in Madrid because we can configure the alternative, a government of change, and we would like the Catalan political forces present at the Congress of Deputies to contribute to making this hypothesis possible, difficult, but for which we will continue to struggle. In any case, president, how would your government view the hypothesis of a re-edition of a PP government, with the situation, the risk, of blocking that would represent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.95.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.96.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, I thank you for the show of solidarity with President Mas, Vice President Ortega, Councillor Rigau and Foreign Minister Francesc Homs, before what is, indeed, a hard failure of a..., the lack of democratic quality of a State that sends to justice someone who has allowed the exercise of democracy. I also appreciate you saying don't fill the towel. I did not expect anything else: that, despite the difficulties, you will struggle until the last moment for there to be a government of change. I must say that there were better conditions before these elections because there was this government of change. And you know that, because I knew that if I was well oriented, I could count on a broad support of many of the Members chosen in Catalonia. This is harder today. But if you try, and here you think there's space for us to find a necessary alternative to a People's Party government, you know you'll find a broad consensus. Now, I have to tell you that the prospects are not talkative and that we have to start preparing for what you say about the possibility that there may be a "re-editing, corrected and increased, surely, of a PP government that has been detrimental to Catalonia's interests." I believe that here we must make a reflection of the country, to which I also invite you to join.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.97.0	Thank you very much, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.98.0	Thank you very much, President. Actually, this hypothesis is confusing. And, to be sure, one of the most perverse effects that would have a re-edition of the PP government are the negative impacts on social policies, because we already know that Brussels has prepared the reception and some austerity and adjustment policies that will have terrible effects, could have them, on autonomy, that is, on the phone services that they serve. Therefore, we think that the very results of the elections, that in the field..., and, with all the difficulties, also, have allowed and have made Catalonia win, also in the Basque Country, the political space that we represent, a space of change and transformation that is decisively committed to the right to self-determination of the country. We think that what we would find..., and what this raises is the need to recompose a social majority around it and that it can unify the majority of Catalonia's citizens, forge their social cohesion and open up a perspective. We think that the objective of the reference, which is long and difficult, will also be, it will end, the perspective that can shed light on this situation and for which we will have to deal. What we think will not be possible is a full disconnection that finds unstoppable difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.99.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.100.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, due to the unstoppable difficulties of being able to organize a reference with a government presided over by Mr. Mariano Rajoy. This is a very unstoppable difficulty. And this is a reality that we're going to face and what we're going to react to, not what it could be some day in the case that... we're not in this scene anymore, Mr. Rabell. We are on the stage of a reality that, whether we like it or not, is what it is, and that, obviously, is not only to be respected, but that we need to relate, and we need to make decisions accordingly. We can't leave it in the freezer now and wait for the time when it's thawed or put it in the microphone when it touches. No, no, Now we have to make decisions with the country. And I believe that you too must feel questioned in this call to make decisions; which way this right to self-determination, which I actually believe is shared by a large majority of the people of this country, can be exercised in the most democratic way possible. I believe that here we have to find spaces of coincidence, that it seems to me that there are, and especially when the Spanish government, probably of the People's Party, with fragility will have to face, you have indicated it very well, to very hard details that will require the European Union. Es talks about the xifra of between 8,000 and 9,000_million euros. We know that the Spanish deficit is greater than the behavior of autonomy and we know the tendency of the Spanish Government to centrifuge the deficit to autonomy. Therefore, we will have to be very and very alert, and I am convinced that here too we can find spaces of coincidence in the defense of the interests of the people of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.101.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the project of the recreation and tourism centre of Vila-seca and Salou]] [[317-00066/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.102.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, without undermining in any way the importance of the transcendental themes that have been raised by other group presidents, I would like to land on a very – very – concrete subject, and I do not know if in a timely or opportunistic way, for the events that are produced around the project of the recreation and tourism centre of Vila-seca and Salou, on which I know that the Government is working and that it has good news to bring to the chamber. I'd like to recall... it's the third time I've asked you about this, and I'd like it to go back, in the sense that maybe with your answer you have the guarantees, in the measure that a government can give you, that this project pulls forward and that it has the social, territorial and also necessary investors complicitys. I have to remember how our compromise began with this project, which was precisely with the previous government, at the request of President Mas..., that our parliamentary group, after a negotiation in which we considered that it had reached a good balance between a reversal related to the game, a reversal related to tourism and a reversal related to housing..., could promote an investment that generated around seven thousand jobs. Then, from that signature on March 30, 2014 between President Mas and Pere Navarro, as president of the Socialist Group, there have been some political changes, there have been some uncertainties, there has also been some hesitation, at least it seemed, on the part of some of the investors, and we know that the government has followed this process carefully, tried to adjust the project, and it seems that these weeks can produce the definitive clutch. That is why, President, our group wants to continue to show its support for this project, to show support for those changes that can be maintained and to expand the consensus around such an important investment, and we would like to know what the Government's view is of respect and whether there is any news that you can share with the House.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.103.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.104.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, it's true. I think it was the first or the second question that you asked me; it was just about that, and I thanked him, and I told him..., if I didn't remember it badly, the expression that I expressed to him, I said, was that I was alive, that the project was alive, but there was a fear that this might have been left in a few limbs from which it would have been difficult to get out. And I recognized that it was a strategic theme of the country, that the government would work there, that it would work with discretion, that it would count on its group. And I have to tell him that, so, the job was done, it was done well. I should like to thank him for the efforts of his political group; I should also like to thank his political group in the territory for the help it has had in social, political and territorial development that we lack to grow, and therefore I would like to reiterate this thanks, which seems to me that if this goes well, and it goes well, it will be a success of all. Therefore, in this sense, I also believe that it was an act worth recognizing and I want to do so as president, and especially, to the people of Tarragona. We compromised ourselves that we would review and push. That's what we did. At these times, you..., the Vice President, the Department of Economics yesterday called, if I don't get it wrong, the recreational and tourist consortium tomorrow morning – there will find out how it was moving and reviewing this project – and at the end of the day, the extraordinary meeting of the Tarragona Urbanism Commission is planned to bring the initial approval of the PDU, which has been carefully reviewed in line with all of us. Therefore, here there was a very intense, very intense work of everyone. I also want to thank the work of the Department of Economics, the work of the territory; an interest because of this reversal – which we know is very important for some regions that need it, for a strategic sector in the country's economy, and especially in that area – not fallen. We've been in contact with investors, too. All of this was done discreetly so that we could finally get there and plant people – and I'll explain it to you with all the details – in what these modifications would consist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.105.0	Thank you very much, President. Don't they come back? Don't you? [[Pause.]] [[Question to the President of the Generality on the consideration of the release of the Regne Unit of the European Union as an opportunity for Catalonia]] [[317-00062/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. The question is posed by Mrs Inés Arrimadas, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.106.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, one of the most relevant news, no doubt worldwide, that we have known in recent days is Brexit. Unfortunately, we will see how a country as important as the United Kingdom will abandon the common European project. The consequences of this, even without the formal start of the exit procedure, we are already seeing them: an absolutely divided country, a spectacular drop in the stock market, a very important depreciation of the pound and announcements by important companies about their possible abandonment and change of head office to other countries of the European Union, among other consequences. In view of this, do you continue to think, Mr President, that Brexit is an opportunity for Catalonia for its precedent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.107.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.108.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, all that you represent giving a view of people, all that you represent democratic exercise will always be a referent, even though you go, in the case of Brexit, in the direction of which are the interests of Catalonia, who wants to be part just as a full-right member of the European Union, as an independent state. However, let me warn you that one thing is catastrophic announcements and the other is reality, which will be a more complex hair than you describe, not so simple, and in which many actors, not only the European Union, but also the United States, are playing, and we will see the evolution of the very day all those catastrophic announcements that have taken place around Brexit. We don't just stare at the world to finance. It is true that for the world to finance this has been a big blow, but there is, happily, economic life beyond the world to finance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.109.0	Thank you very much, President. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.110.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, the only ones who have been happy with this news, the only ones who consider it a precedent, the only ones who take iron away from the consequences of this, for it is you and Donald Trump and Marine Le Pen, of the French National Front, and the Northern League of Italy [[applause and voice of the background]] – yes, yes, it is true; it is true, it is true – the only parties, which are parties that call themselves far-right, Eurosceptic and xenophobic. What you say... [[Some applause.]] What you say you will do, which is to declare independence, means leaving the European Union. And this which here they deny the Catalans, and they deny the truth, you when you come out, the few times you do, in international media you have to say and you have to recognize that the exit of Catalonia from Spain means the exit of the European Union. Why? Why in international media they do not let you obviate written answers from the European Commission ; many, but I can read one textually from 2013, which says: "If part of the territory of a Member State ceased to be part of that state to become a new independent state, the treaties would no longer be applicable in that territory; in other words, and I am still reading textually, a new independent state, by the fact of achieving independence, would become a third country with respect to the European Union". This is a written response from the European Union, which you deny here in Catalonia, as long as there are such positions. Do not do the same as the British Independenceists, who have spent the whole campaign talking about 'Europe steals us' – does that ring a bell, Mr Puigdemont? .......................................................................................................................................................... Europe, we have to reform the, we do not have to break the, and exactly the same thing happens with Spain. But you are less and less decisive in Spain and more and, if not, ask Mr Tremosa, you are less and less decisive in Europe. The Catalans are going to start the processes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.111.0	Congresswoman, you've run out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.112.0	...to reform all of Spain and all of Europe.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.113.0	...I'm having a hard time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.114.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.115.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.116.0	Thank you very much. Home, I would now be a little more cautious than you have been if you refer to European Union independence and exclusion processes, because in these hours the Scottish Prime Minister is meeting with the President of the European Parliament; the President of the European Commission has announced that he has an interest in talking to her, and there is an important change: even the same Guy Verhofstadt, whom you know very well, has just made some statements saying: "Home, perhaps the European Union, with those countries that want to be part of it, is very friendly and very empathetic. Therefore, you will see how the European Union – in fact, you already see it – is radically and rapidly changing the speech it has in relation to cases such as that of Scotland, because it will have it on the table, and the case of Catalonia, among other things because the European Union did not have enough support, and you know that. So in this sense – in this sense – get out of the European Union..., look, do you know what happened to the Scotsman who created the campaign of why voting independence would come out of the European Union? That they have been left without independence and without European Union. Do you understand me? [[Some applause.]] That's what happened to them. And, finally, about Donald Trump, Marine Le Pen..., exactly Marine Le Pen made some exactly coincident statements with his own regarding the independence of Catalonia. And do you know where you will be when Catalonia declares independence? Same as Mrs. Marine Le Pen and Mr. Donald Trump. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.117.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality about the latest developments in the Spanish State in relation to the sovereignist process]] [[317-00067/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the latest political developments. The question is posed by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.118.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Many honorable president, these days have passed many things, some of extreme gravity and others, not for foreseeable, very important, too, and all point to us, together and separately, in the same direction and the same objective, which is that it suits us, when before better, to be an independent state. These days we've seen how the state's locksmiths act, or I'd say, better, we've seen a state turned into a locksmith against this process and acting to discredit, to destroy the honorability of many people. Quite simply, disgusting. These days we have also felt like a minister – said of the Interior, but acting as in the previous rule – it is precisely a sale to use tax, to use courts, to use media groups also with the same purpose of destroying people. And we have also seen these days, concretely yesterday, as these prosecutors and judges who tune in so much – and we see that they also tune in so much in time – so they will take to the bench of accused politicians to put the ballots and consult the citizens; a trial to democracy, a trial to 2,300,000 Catalans who went to vote. From here all the support for people who have seen themselves most involved. And, finally, we have seen some elections to the Spanish State that leave, therefore, all very equally, above all the same for what makes zero expectations of the possibility of minimal sensitivity for a reference to Catalonia. It is for all this, President, that we want to ask him what is the value of the recent political developments that have occurred in the State, of the events that have occurred on the part of the State, in relation to the process that Catalonia sees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.119.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.120.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Turull, you said that it suits us, when before better, to get out of the State, and you are absolutely right in the world, and that is what I have tried to explain before in the answer to the Parliamentary Group of the CUP. And I would go further: we don't just need to change from the State, we need to change from the time, because all that's going on is from another time; it's from a time almost in white and black, it's from a time when we thought we could get out of it, that we wouldn't get out, because this was the expectation that there was at the beginning of democracy, and we see sad – sad – and not with joy that this was a fraction. Therefore, not only change from State, change from time to time, because the light also of the results of the Spanish elections, the light also of how it was managed the result of the elections of 20 December, and, therefore, the inability to manage complexities, it is obvious that, between one thing and the other, the options that the Spanish government that emerges from these elections..., to summon or agree a reference with Catalonia are options that these are indeed wandering through the outer space for the time of time. So the sooner we get through, the better for our people. Moreover, I would say that at these times there are Spanish democrats who are looking with disappointment at the results, who are beginning to understand why Catalonia is willing to make a new state that is based precisely on democratic references like those that are still here today, in this chamber, they are criticized, when they awaken admiration in the universal world – the United Kingdom is a democracy of the past, and if I have to assemble myself to some state I prefer to assemble myself to the United Kingdom, with its mistakes, which I do not say to the Spanish State, with all sincerity. So there are many Spanish democrats who at these times begin to understand that the only alternative that we have with the country is to be able to walk decisively and irreversibly and to form ourselves as an independent, European, democratic state, exemplary in forms and that is inclusive and that it is not possible for an Interior Minister to persecute his political opponents using public resources, using the judiciary, using the prosecution and everything he has at the abst, thinking that there is his property and oblivion that is right there in the service of the common good. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.121.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Procedure for revocation of the Director of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia]] [[299-00001/11]] The second point of the order of the day is: procedure of revocation of the director of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia. Before starting the debate and voting on the motion for revocation, I will give a reading of the proposal of the Committee on Institutional Affairs. "The Commission of Institutional Affairs has processed at its sitting on 23 June 2016 the request of the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia for the parliamentary groups of Junts per el Sí, Ciutadans, Socialist, Catalunya Yes, it is Pot and Candidature of Popular Unity - Cree Constituent. This request is well founded in the cause of cessation which establishes the letter g of Article 11.1 of Law 14/2008, of 5 November, of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia. The request has been processed in accordance with Article 11(2) and Article 177 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. The facts which motivated the submission of the request for revocation proceedings are the information given in the last few days in the communication media on some of the actions of the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia which would have severely compromised the compliment of the debts and obligations inherent in the charge. Daniel de Alfonso Laso, director of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia, was summoned to the committee session, who attended and used the word. The committee, in agreement with these precedents, the development of the session – of which there is a consensus in the Diari de Sessions of the Parliament of Catalonia – and the public character of the information disclosed by the communication media about the content of the conversations between the director of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia and the Minister of the Interior, which has not been forgotten by the director of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia, considers that these facts, to, clearly, pose an improper conduct of the charge, clearly incompatible with the values to be defended and promoted by the Antifrau Office of Catalonia, of which its director is to be the maximum example; b, assuming a notary and difficult failure of November to comply with the obligations of the Special Antifrau Office of Catalonia, of which the Director of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia is required to make an example; and b, assuming that there is a notary and difficult failure to comply with the requirements of the provisions of the Special Anti-Collusculations, which require the reservation of the 14 Consequently, the Commission of Institutional Affairs agrees: a, to propose to the plenary the revocation of the appointment of Daniel de Alfonso Laso as director of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia for having incorrect in the cause of termination which establishes the letter g of Article 11.1 of Law 14/2008 of 5 November, of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia; b, to refer to the prosecution, to the effects that legally correspond, the record and the transcription of the session of the Commission. Palau del Parlament, June 23, 2016. Signed: the secretary of the commission, Neus Lloveras, and the chairman of the commission, Jean Castel. Then, according to what was established at the Spokesman's Board, we will open a round of interventions by parliamentary groups for a maximum of seven minutes for each group. To start this turn, has the word Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.122.0	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Citizens, like the rest of the parliamentary groups, except the People's Party, has promoted the revocation of Mr Daniel de Alfonso as director of the Anti-Fraud Office and of course will vote in favour of this revocation today. The talks between the Minister and Mr De Alfonso have not been denied by any of them and have therefore taken place. That Mr. De Alfonso spoke to a minister about the dirty rags that may be found by political rivals disqualifies Mr. De Alfonso from acting as Director of the Anti-Fraud Office. That seems obvious to us outside of any discussion. The Director of the Anti-Fraud Office cannot be revoked freely by Parliament, and this is to preserve precisely the independence of the body. Therefore, cessation should be a causative cessation. And the cause exists to be overturned. Mr De Alfonso has failed to fulfil his duty of confidentiality and confidentiality; Mr De Alfonso has questioned the objectivity of the body he runs for political reasons; Mr De Alfonso did not pursue politicians for being corrupt or committing fraud, he was pursuing them to help the political purposes of the Minister of the Interior, and that is very serious. It wasn't objective. The independence of the Anti-Fraud Office is in question, as it appears to be submissive to the Minister of the Interior. He has therefore seriously failed to fulfil his duties as director of the Anti-Fraud Office. Mr De Alfonso is therefore "inadequate to lead the anti-fraud agency. Citizens support the existence of the Anti-Fraud Office and also its workers, who, by the way, made a statement demarcating Mr. De Alfonso's activities and expressly denying that they had given support to Mr. De Alfonso. Citizens support the office and the workers; however, we are very dissatisfied, and we have expressed this on many occasions, with the stage of Mr De Alfonso, who has been unfruitful in the fight against fraud, has been uneffective, they have brought little work to the budget of which they were endowed. And finally, also, and then we will refer to it, Mr De Alfonso, as second, as a position of trust, appointed, nothing more and nothing less, than Maite Masià, of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, involved in the ITV case following a listening that was made, and therefore of the most politically marked profiles and more "inadequate to be in the Anti-Fraud Office". We will also talk about that, because here there are many who are making a lot of victims, but they are part of this slug system – slug system – that we have in Spain, and that we will have to clean up and renew those who want to do it, and not live in the old ways of politics. Mr De Alfonso had the opportunity to defend himself and to claim what he wanted in the committee, and he did, frankly, only reaffirm the purpose, of this parliamentary group, of revoking him. He stood as a guarantor of fraud in Catalonia, despite what had been seen with the wiretaps; he said he was supported by his team, which was not so; he hinted at things against..., as if he had information from the political parties that had to cease him. He said in the media, days earlier, that if he was revoked, he would pull the blanket. A person like that, how are we going to keep her in her position? And this, not to mention the chapuza of the Ministry of the Interior, of the Minister of the Interior, who urges an anti-fraud body to investigate its political rivals and record it in the office; in the office of the Minister of the Interior – the chief of the police – there are recordings, and then these recordings, in addition, are made public. It's a shame, Minister of the Interior. [[Greetings.]] This mistake, this chapuza of the Ministry of the Interior has given wings to its political rivals, to those who wanted to destroy unlawfully, to those for whom he sought information that, illegally, served him to fulfill his purposes, has given wings. And now, these gentlemen, who have used the crisis of exhaustion, the serious concern and patience of Catalan society, these gentlemen, now, use that for their benefit, as if the ITV case, as if the Palau case, as if the 3 percent case, as if the Pujol case had not existed. These gentlemen now try to show that all the illegalities they are committing for a legitimate purpose, which may be to achieve independence, but through legal and constitutional paths, and not illegal and unconstitutional, are showing that this perversion of the Ministry of the Interior supposes that we are judged by a proto-Franchist state, as the leaders of the UPC have said, and has given them wings, in short, with this chapuza. And what we say is that Spain needs to be reformed, that we don't want populist politicians here taking advantage of a minister of the Interior, and we don't want a minister of the Interior to give wings to populists in order to complain about something that is shameful, the way in which what has happened here has been known in such an undemocratic and deplorable way. Look, today we're revoking Mr. De Alfonso. I hope this is a first act of cleansing for Spanish democracy. Here, in the Catalan chamber, we are doing what we have to do: to cease or revoke the person who has proved to be ‘inadequate to the position he holds. But the politicians we're here have more work to do. We have the job, not to skip the law to satisfy the cravings for populism and power of some, and to lie to the population, but to try to change faces, renew the parties that need renewal, and proceed to a cleanup of Spanish democracy that prevents these facts from ever happening again. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.123.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.124.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselor, vice president, deputies and deputies, we are here, as has been said, in a debate in the process or procedure for the termination of the director of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia. An act, a debate that has a point of contricio act, must also hold it, because we have, as in the chamber, and especially the groups that we have something to see, a responsibility in choosing and, probably, a responsibility in watching. We have known, we have been familiar with interesting conversations, revealed by fascicles, between the Minister of the Interior and the director of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia. It is important to point out here, as far as has already been done, that the existence of these conversations, the very existence of the conversations, their content and all, the forms with which they developed have not been discussed or denied by the two people involved, who assume, we understand, tacitly, the truthfulness of everything that has been published. At the same time, it is said that the recordings have been obtained and differed unlawfully – and we will have occasion to return to this – or it is intended to convince that the content and the whole of it are within normality or, even so, that the minister and director will do nothing but fulfill their duty. By a lot of determination or vehemence that they seek to affirm, everything becomes a weak and futile bulwark, in contrast to the transcripts of the conversation. Or should we consider an independent director of the Anti-Fraud Office who said to the Minister of the Interior: "Consider me a corporal of your National Corps or ‘I am at your command, Minister? Not anymore. The independence of the director has been questioned more recently. Or should we consider the director objective and impartial when he calls the political adversaries of the minister as enemies? Not anymore. Moreover, we have to assume that he shares the Minister's animosity for these political opponents, feeling, certainly, as in some passage of these transcripts, he says: "They have TV3, they have newspapers there, as we have already pointed out to the Committee on Institutional Affairs, where there is a ‘we, and this absolutely breaks down and poses in question the objectivity and independence of the director of the office. Should we consider it normal and from the office manager's offices that this suggestion to the minister who is reserving information allegedly compromised in place of harshness to the prosecution or before justice, to do so political chanting to the minister's opponent, as we read that he did? No, no, no, no, no. We cannot consider this to be part of normalcy, because what the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office has to do if in his actions, if in the actions of the office, is detected evidence of facts or conduct that may constitute a crime is to immediately communicate it to the prosecution or the judicial authority, and this is stated in Article 21.2 of the Law of the Anti-Fraud Office. The other major line of defence of the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office is his confidence that the recordings, having been obtained unlawfully, will be declared null and void. Maybe that's what it feels like before the judicial body that knows the case, we don't know yet, we can't know. And perhaps, so, Mr. De Alfonso avoids the criminal consequences that probably emanates from his conduct. But what is clear at this point is that the jaws have fallen, that we already know and know how the two interlocutors are led to the head of the institutions that they encapsulate. Do you really believe Mr. De Alfonso..., do you really believe this chamber that Mr. De Alfonso can continue to the head of the Anti-Fraud Office after everything we've known? I think the answer is obvious. For what we are dealing with today, that is the termination of the director of the office for the cause provided for in Article 11, apart first, letter g, of the Law of the Office, which speaks of the notoriety and difficult negligence in the compliment of the obligations and deures of the office, all that we have known is relevant, sense of doubt, but we may not have known it, could not have been made public. Now, when it was made public, it was the detonator of another series of events that we have also known for the communication media, because the same Mr. De Alfonso made statements before the communication media, which are as much the cause of his cessation as these converse contents. And it's that Mr. de Alfonso, before the fact that he was missing, had no reaction other than that which, by the way, sometimes practices those who are persecuted by the Anti-Fraud Office, which is the strategy of the squid, huh? , to see if the cloud of bruteness that escapes in the fun of the subject's background. And so he failed to complete the right of reserve he has with the director of the Anti-Fraud Office, making public investigations that until that moment were not around, for example, our same party, the party I represent, accusing him at the same time, slandering him, accusing him of having ordered or performed these recordings with what intent; accusations, obviously, false. We told Mr. De Alfonso that he would find our answer in the form of a complaint; today it is already filed with this complaint, and we will wait to see what is the result of this. But really what is most interesting about this is that these statements also cast doubt on their suitability to follow the head of the Anti-Fraud Office, because they involve the breach of the reserve duty, as we have already said, and clearly lost objectivity if, in their personal defense, therefore, it involves this breach of the reserve duty. Mr. De Alfonso can, therefore, take refuge as much as he wants in slander or in insidious insinuation, as he did a few times in his parliamentary office, and our answer will always be the same: that all the captives should be raised here, that all the clues should be given before the prosecution or before the judicial authority, and that he should explain very well when you do so because he had not done so until that moment. Because Mr. De Alfonso can see himself as a Croatian of brilliant armor, but the only thing that carries the hair well up, like the hair, is the ignominy and the proof of his action, and he has put at risk all the work that has been done by the Anti-Fraud Office so many workers are trying hard to finish, and he has therefore put at risk the good name of this institution, and I believe that we cannot allow it and therefore that we must proceed to its cessation as the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.125.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next is the words of Mr. Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.126.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, many things have been said; I would also like to highlight an aspect which, not because of the appearance of Mr De Alfonso to the Committee on Institutional Affairs, is no longer important and relevant, and it is that we find ourselves before a political scandal of major dimensions, a scandal which in any country of tradition and democratic culture would have assumed not only ceases to have been able to cause sincere governments. We have had the..., we find ourselves in front of a minister of the Interior who uses the devices and prerogatives attached to his responsibility to develop what he cannot qualify in any other way than as a provocation – provocation – activity, and it is terribly difficult that in the face of an interior ministry there is a provocation. The fact that Mr Fernández Díaz has been re-elected in the last electoral contest does not have to imply an amnesty, as it seems he has read, on the part of public opinion or of the citizenry. His behaviour is absolutely undemocratic, it's pre-democratic, it's close to a minister who is an heir to Francoist tradition and culture, and there's no choice but to get rid of it and save it, and this Parliament shouldn't lose sight of it, and it should denounce it, huh? With all the letters. Well, the responsibility we have, it has been said, is, therefore, to proceed with the cessation of that which has been appointed for this Parliament, which is Mr De Alfonso. A lot of things have been said. Mr. De Alfonso, when he was defended before the Commission of Institutional Affairs – he defended his action – therefore, he acted in a way that made his case worse. He acted – and here I do use the word, I don't have to learn it – in mafia terms, threatening to reveal information that could compromise all the parliamentary groups present and branding this threat like a chant. This fact alone disqualifies a person to be at the head of a public body belonging to this Parliament of Catalonia, this fact alone. His explanation is that..., and I remember that defiant attitude with which the Rules spoke: "You cannot revoke me if it is not in application of the Rules; you must show negligence. But negligence is quite demonstrated, he said here, and it has been in attitudes that interfere with criminal behaviour and we – I can tell you –, our parliamentary group today presents a complaint to the public prosecutor's office that there has been..., asking him to investigate whether there are elements of crime in the conduct of Mr De Alfonso. And we think that there has been prevarication; there has been the use of reserved information; there has been a lack of responsibility, of loyalty before this Parliament; there has been submission before the Minister of the Interior; there has been a lack of all dues inherent in the fact that Mr De Alfonso was wearing it. I don't think at these times anyone – anyone – is going to go out and save Corporal De Alfonso, huh? I believe that Parliament is clear and will proceed accordingly. Allow me, if not, briefly, to make a parenthesis, because it came out of the way before... The fact that we reprobate Mr. De Alfonso does not, but rather, require an organization such as the Anti-Fraud Office that has a recognition and prestige in Catalan society. And, therefore, they cannot have people like this in front of them, because effectively the struggle against corruption, the struggle to have clean institutions, forms part of the longings and the demands made by the Catalan society. And, therefore, we cannot lose sight of this. But leave me, as I was saying, to give a parenthesis, because it's been written down before one thing. In the last revelations that have appeared these days there has been a special and bloody conversation about Mr. Trias, in which we have heard expressions like "we must strike when the beast is going to die, right? , expressions of this type, which indicate, therefore, the tarann and the intellectual and moral quality of the persons who pronounce this. Let me say, because it has been remembered before, as I said, that, on the charges against which Mr Trias was objected, with whom I have had a relationship of many years as an activist and as a venerable leader, not only before these charges did some defend before the city council, his honorability, which is relatively easy in Barcelona, but others, such as Mr Coscubila, have done so at the Congress of Deputies, in Madrid, which has a little more merit– and parenthesis–, because effectively disagreement or political misadventure can no longer be resolved in an attempt to destroy or attempt to disregard another person or place the debate in a land that is not confrontational. Well, I think the most important thing has been said and now I correspond to this Parliament, so do the duets; do the duets, but do the thinking. We cannot forget that it is the responsibility of this Parliament to appoint and sort out for a consensus and for an accurate sorting of those responsible for placing the body responsible for the import of the Anti-Fraud Office. I don't want to bring the gallows back to the wound, but we have to look at how we do our casts and also how we do our decorations and decorations, some recently, huh? I believe that those responsible for the Interior should most likely be forbidden to donate medals so that some may place them in the yards and others, unfortunately, to people we are today to join, I hope, with the final decision and vote of this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.127.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The words "Mr. Santi Rodríguez", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.128.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my intervention with only a few first words that we fully agree with Mr Rabell: we are ahead of a political scandal of uppercase dimensions. Point. End here absolutely agreeable; nothing more, but end here absolutely agreeable. What's the political escandol? Well, then, the only crime that we have until this moment in knowledge, that is the illegal recording of a conversation at the desk of a minister of the Interior, which I haven't heard of yet absolutely no one. This is the only crime that we know of at this time, with what all this entails and the unknowns that today still has to do with this recording. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's the one who's not... I feel expressions of surprise. Or aren't we talking about a recording on the Interior Minister's desk? Who's doing this recording? What's the point? I didn't hear a congressman worry about this. What's the purpose of the recording? The Minister of the Interior or is he the director of the Anti-Fraud Office? Did they spy and record more of the minister's meetings at his desk? Did the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office record any more meetings? Who was interested in knowing the contents of the meetings or of the minister or director of the Anti-Fraud Office? What interest did the broadcast of this recording have in the moment it was made? Nothing you're doing here today is meant to give any response to these unknowns. What is being done here today is to confirm a feeling that some people have already written beforehand and surely a long time ago. The words of the President of the Generality are very clear: "It was not one of ours. And that for some was unbearable. Second consideration. Are you only interested in the Director's conversations with the Interior Minister of the PP or are you interested in all the conversations that the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office could have with other senior officials? There aren't all the games. Is there any interest in knowing who else he met? We've asked the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office's agenda to find out who else he's been meeting with. Has anyone else been concerned about the meeting relationship? When we have this relationship with the meetings held by the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office, will those who have done so explain to us the reasons for their meetings and the contents of these meetings? I don't suppose anyone's going to have anything wrong. Third consideration. The address of Mr. De Alfonso of the Anti-Fraud Office has not been comfortable for anyone – for anyone. The later appearance was an example, but they can sort out any other: there was no such thing as commodious appearances. Clearly, some, after the public picabaralles, were hoping to promise pau in exchange for something. I suppose that doesn't completely disable anyone, it's perfectly legitimate. So, this, the address of the Anti-Fraud Office doesn't have to be convenient to ensure it completes with its functions. One last consideration. Who else are there after this revocation that you approved today? I remember the controversy of the appointment of the deputy director, granted with the only votes of Convergence and Union and of the Socialist Party in extremes, surely after some call, because, if not, the appointment of the deputy director was not approved. The case of ITV escorts has been discussed. Let me recall that famous report concerning the Palau de la Música Commission which was the only report that concluded that in the case of Palau de la Música there had been no illegal financing by Convergence and Union. So, this person, the deputy director, is who will be taking the direction of the Anti-Fraud Office on an interim basis. It is clear that after that they would end up proposing one of their own, independent, clear, independent; someone like, for example – not because this person has to take up this responsibility, but as an example of the high levels of government that exercise responsibilities – the director of the School of Public Administration of Catalonia, who is directly entitled to a deputy of the People's Party. So, someone as independent as this person is definitely where you're going to look so you don't bother too much, right? Clearly, it's independent if it's yours. Today we have seen..., we have followed with great attention, as always, the session of control to the President of the Generalitat, and today we have seen as the President of the Generalitat it is allowed to say that to Spain those who like it are the democrats, the others do not; independent are only those who are of ours, the others do not; democrats are only those who think as we are or who care for us; the others, nor that they have won the elections, no, democrats, they are not. But we can't agree, as we can't agree, so we can't agree with the fact that the election of the new director of the Anti-Fraud Office can come to an absolute majority. Therefore, we will propose them to what we have already proposed – already proposed in this chamber – which is to delete the second round; to delete the second round, which would allow an absolute majority of independent MPs to choose the director of the Anti-Fraud Office. We are like the Catalan Corporation, we are like the Audiovisual Council, and that with only a reinforced majority of the Parliament can choose the new director of the Anti-Fraud Office. I'm done. It is symptomatic, and they will allow me to repeat a quote that I believe is the authentic leitmotif of what we are discussing here today, is a quote from Congresswoman Anna Gabriel to the committee of the past you said: "To declare Spanish is a self-condemnation and a moral prevarication. Fi of the date. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.129.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr Benet Salellas, of the Parliamentary Group candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.130.0	Thank you, Madam President. I will try not to spend much time answering the intervention of the People's Party, which you always go before us is a distortion of our role in this Parliament. I will limit myself, only, to remember, if it is not enough, that, despite many criticisms – and always in defense of the idea, the law, the staff and the great effort that has been devoted to the Antifrau Office of Catalonia – you cannot say anything, because the Spanish Antifrau Office does not know how it works. There is no equivalent anti-fraud office in the Spanish State. There is no independent body, no longer if the director is or is not to be, but you are certainly cautious, so that you do not uncover all the corruption of your party, of its administrations, where they govern, so directly you already have the indecency not to propose the existence of independent bodies. But, said that, only six weeks ago we asked the government about who controls the controllers or who watches the vigilantes, right? In an inquiry which ended with the approval of a motion for this chamber with a very large majority, the motion entitled 'Caltar Republic, zero corruption, no? And, somehow, in that youth, therefore, the importance of assuming our anti-corruption commitments was already on the alert, and some of them affected the Anti-Fraud Office. We come to claim the content of that young man and ask him as he begins to put himself into practice. In fact, today we have entered a writing in which we call upon the Councillor of Transparency, the Councillor Romeva, and also at the Bureau of Parliament, to adopt, to anticipate some of the measures that we have taken in that motion and that for us they are on the line of the triple error, which we have repeated many times, but that is not why we will not fail to insist on it, is it not? , which are the need for recognition, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition of what has happened with Mr. De Alfonso. In the first place, and in relation to the question of recognition, which for us is essential..., for us there is a need for a genuine investigation into what has happened to De Alfonso and his action in relation to the Minister of the Interior. For us... – and in this, somehow, we have also tried to denounce in the question that we asked the president–, it was necessary for the police to intervene, it was necessary for Mossos d'Esquadra, to anticipate so many times in so many other circumstances, in this case also acted, not only to protect the Anti-Fraud Office, but also to protect the sources of information from the investigation that must be undertaken in order to clear the responsibilities of Mr. De Alfonso. That's not enough... – and I'm saying it with all the affection for Si's company that's Pot, isn't it? – there's not enough to go to the prosecutor's office. There's not enough to go to the D.A. in a case where it's proven that the D.A. is in the garlic. So, the prosecution, in the Spanish State, in the Kingdom of Spain..., in fact, not only the prosecution, but also a good part of the judicial caste to which the same Lord Alfonso is not independent; he is not independent nor wants to be independent. And, in fact, the same Constitution establishes the hierarchy of the same Minister of Justice in relation to the same prosecution. And, if not, in some way, let them say it..., in this non-independent prosecution and in this judicial caste to which Mr. De Alfonso belongs, not independent, let them tell the accused for 9-N– to Mr. Mas, Mrs. Ortega and Mrs. Rigau –, to whom we express our maximum anti-repressive solidarity; or that they also say it to Joan Coma, our governor to Vic, or to Montserrat Venturos, Mayor of Berga, the first of them accused by siege, in order to have, precisely, given support to the 9-N resolution. So, saying we're going to the D.A.'s a little naïve, huh? We need, in this sense, to be much more forceful and to establish mechanisms to clarify and to recognize exactly what has happened and what has happened together, the series of crimes that Mr. De Alfonso has committed. Second place, repair. For us, the best way to repair the Anti-Fraud Office is to dignify it, another time, make it stronger, allocate more resources and make it much more independent. The best victory against the taxman De Alfonso is to show that this office works and that he has felt, as the very workers of the Anti-Fraud Office have claimed in a letter addressed to this chamber, and, above all – above all – to choose a new director quickly, because we do not need De Alfonso's right hand to run the office, and this corresponds to the Government. And for this reason we have placed you today, in this request, that within a maximum of fifteen days proceed, please, to propose to the chamber, a director to replace him. And, finally, guarantees of non-repetition. We've been claiming this whole zero corruption thing. There we talked about a Catalan mechanism to fight corruption and fraud. Let's get it started: start thinking about it, start developing legislative and governmental initiatives because we have to be relentless. We don't just have to be ruthless against corruption, but we also have to be ruthless against impostors, who, like De Alfonso, in the name of the fight against corruption, have tried or converted, let's say, into the worst representatives of the state's keykeepers. And, therefore, we also need to prove that there is no impunity with people who act as De Alfonso. Because, of impunity, when it is the power that is delinquent, when it is the powerful who are delinquent, there is still much in our house, and it is absolutely asphyxiating. Only fifteen days ago Fèlix Millet was acquitted by the Supreme Court of the case of the Palau hotel; only one month ago, also, the movements accused of losing an eye to Esther Quintana were also acquitted for this caste justice we have at our home. Therefore, it is important that Mr De Alfonso, who we have already said is pure clave, is dismissed for this Parliament; but not only that, but that he is persecuted, punished and cleansed so that he does not come back to justice. Because the worst thing that could happen to us is that after what has happened, we must continue to see the keystone of the State passing through the passages of a court in Barcelona. That would be a real fraud. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.131.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms. Marta Rovira, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.132.0	Thank you, President. MEPs, MEPs, look at the appearance by Mr De Alfonso last week, in Parliament, threatened the Members and Members of Parliament or an improperly committed party – according to him – or a summary criminal court, the one who is involved in this intervention, first of all, is to justify that there is a strong case for continuing the procedure of revocation and to cease it immediately at this session. Therefore, as the President mentioned earlier, in the motion for a resolution approved by the Commission, we refer to Article 11 of the Law, in her point g, and try to see, as the other parliamentary spokespersons have done – the majority of them, at least – that there has been a notorious and difficult negligence in the compliment of the duties and duties of the director of the Antifrau Office, in person, Mr De Alfonso. In the first place, we consider that he has neglected in his charge for four reasons, basically. The first, he diverted from power. And it seems to us that it is absolutely believed that it has perfectly confided its functions. He has strayed from the object, he has made a partisan and political use of the institution, a particular use, he has not acted by virtue of the general interest, which, in any case, was to pursue... – persecution has dedicated itself... –, to pursue corruption. He's dedicated himself to pursuing, to discrediting, to destroying certain political settlements. Therefore, he did not agree with the general interest. This could be seen thanks to this information that we have had through the communication media, from these audios that have certainly been taken from the very first moment for the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office. A _second reason: we understand that you have violated, in the exercise of your mandate, therefore, the rights of objectivity and independence, articles 8.1 and 8.3 of the law governing the Anti-Fraud Office. The lack of objectivity is very clear, it has remained absolutely accredited, because it has proved itself – and, finally, in his appearance he is defending it itself – that he has prioritized investigating certain concrete cases according to certain political interests. Therefore, that it has put certain resources of the Anti-Fraud Office in favor of investigating some cases and not others, depending solely on the political convenience. Obviously, the prioritization of certain shippers of the Anti-Fraud Office, according to absolutely subjective and non-objective criteria, according to a general interest, what it has done is to stop investigating some cases – that, therefore, we have also not rejected many complaints for a long time – of cases that have not been investigated or widened over time, with the risk, obviously, therefore, that they have lost the multiple and varied procedural effects or penal prescriptions. Therefore, a lack of objectivity absolutely accredited in the exercise of its functions. A lack of independence, too, in the exercise of its functions, as has been said. Obviously, independence has not been guaranteed, the separation of powers in the exercise of its functions has not been guaranteed. It has received direct instructions and instructions from a Minister of the Interior, and obviously it has not taken into account any criteria for the exercise of the task as a function of the independence of the office and of objective criteria, according to a general interest, but directly perverted or directed to another institution. Therefore, it is also an absolutely credible fact that it has lost all independence in the exercise of these functions. The Minister's instructions cannot be considered either as administrative cooperation, or as advice, or as collaboration to improve the fight against corruption, which is what he tried to attach during his appearance; they cannot be... – what we have all heard – do not fit in those possibilities of exercise of the charge that regulates the same law, to the third chapter, which is of the relationship with other administrations. No, there have not been meetings here to pursue corruption; there have been direct conspiracies here to pursue certain people and certain political ideology. Therefore, it is clear that there has been a lack of independence in the exercise of its functions. That said, we still see another motivator that justifies continuing this cessation and making the vote always followed, which is the... – it has also been mentioned – the violation of the principle of confidentiality and the disclosure of secrets. All investigations that are being carried out at the Anti-Fraud Office – and that says the same law – must be protected by the duty of confidentiality. All the information that comes, too, from these same investigations, even those that affect personal information, personal data. And it's obvious, this, that it also jumped through the air and we heard it, we all could hear it, we could hear it directly. And not only with information, but also – as pointed out in some of these recordings to which we have been able to access – even documents, because it is about certain documents. Therefore, it is also absolutely accredited and contrasted that there has been this lack of confidentiality principle: leaks, contacts with prosecutors, journalists... Therefore, it also obviously competes for this cessation for having crebbed, for having violated Article 18.1 and 19.1 of the Law of the Antifrau Office. It is obvious that we are not making a criminal trial here – we are not making a criminal trial – but I have counted up to four disputes and various complaints from the spokespersons who have preceded me, and we will continue to study whether there has been a crime of prohibited negotiations, forcing any of the parties to obtain political or electoral benefit, whether there has been a crime of violation of secrets, of prevarication, of influence..., and this we will continue to investigate where close, which is not in Parliament, but also today, we want to put it on the table. For all this, and from what is derived from his appearance, from the recordings that everyone has been able to listen to, for us it is absolutely believed that the exercise of the functions of Mr. De Alfonso, director of the office, has been irregular, negligent, in a notorious, manifest, difficult; it has violated and incomplete the law regulating the Anti-Fraud Office, and with an ethically indignant act has generated an absolute loss of confidence of the deputies, most of them, in the exercise of their functions. That is why we will vote in favour, as it could not be otherwise, of revocation and cessation. Here we do not make criminal judgments, therefore, do not serve if the recordings are illegal or are not; we do not make these criminal judgments. Certainly, you do use some of the lists that have been obtained illegally, such as the Falciani list, to pursue certain crimes or alleged fiscal crimes. Now, those recordings that affect them, you don't make them serve, consider them absolutely illegal. It's the same, we see here today the negligence and violation of the debts in the exercise of this director's office, and our obligation as deputies and deputies, and our intention is to guarantee an anti-fraud office to the people's servants and to the general interest of the fight against corruption. And this is only a first measure. We encourage parliamentary groups to continue studying and take action so that the Anti-Fraud Office actually serves what it should do. It's to say, if the one that fails is the controller he controls, we have to re-impose it; if what it's about is to regenerate it and make it a reputation, let's do it. Now, I'm just saying one thing. That said, no one is wrong: we're going to raise the Anti-Fraud Office again and we're going to put it in the service of the citizens, I'm not convinced, but with this we're not going to solve a problem that's a lot harder, that it's the locksmiths of a state. Because the problem of funds is not the Antifrau Office, that we will regenerate it – I am not convinced – or just its director, that we will put it new; but the problem is of a minister, of a president of the Spanish Government. It is to have a minister and a Spanish president who use an office to fight corruption to make political corruption and political fraud. [[Greetings.]] And let me also say that the problem is not of a president and a minister, but of those who yesterday... – and I read that today, and they have given no explanation – of those who today perpetuate the State we know, that they are the People's Party, that they are the Socialist Party and that they are Citizens. [[remorse of the voice]] , which prevent the Minister of the Interior from appearing in the Courts. [[Greetings.]] Why do they want to be accomplices, then? Why do they want to be accomplices...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.133.0	He's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.134.0	...that the minister will not appear...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.135.0	He's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.136.0	...and the president of the Spanish government to give explanations of these recordings...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.137.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.138.0	...of the use they make of the State...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.139.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.140.0	...against certain political ideas. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.141.0	Please, Congresswoman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.142.0	I just said that so today we're doing what we're doing, like MPs and MPs, we're doing what we're doing: returning the Anti-Fraud Office to the citizen. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But let me tell you that we only have one way left and that you also have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.143.0	Congresswoman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.144.0	...we won an argument. We only have one way: to make a country just and clearly and also to return dignity to the citizen of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings. Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.145.0	Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.146.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.147.0	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.148.0	Let's see, Mrs. Marta Rovira, I think you don't know what happened at the Bureau of Congress. The Secretary General of Congress himself said that no appearances could be requested now in Congress, and Citizens what he claimed was that the Minister's appearance was requested on the same day, July 19, that Congress be constituted. Therefore, do not continue airing this lie that some media have. We have asked for the minister's appearance here and we ask for it in Congress, what happens is that we were not left on the part of the secretary general of the Bureau. Thank you. [[Some applause. Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.149.0	Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.150.0	Mrs. Rovira, insolvency or bad faith are the only two explanations of the words she has addressed to the chamber in the last few minutes of her intervention. (Applause.) There is only one precedent in the history of democracy of an agreed appearance at the time of the Permanent Council, which is to explain the Galaxy operation. It's the only antecedents there is. For the rest, what the General Secretary of the Congress of Deputies says and what the Rules and the Law say – I understand that you are anxious not to pay too much attention to it, but we do. [[Greetings. Marta Rovira and Vergés ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.151.0	Mrs. Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.152.0	First of all, to see that we will have the majority in the Congress of Deputies to see the Minister of the Interior present, which I am absolutely glad and hope will last. Secondly, if there is only one, there is only one precedent in a parliament such as the Congress of Deputies, there is not enough reason why this precedent weighs so much because in a political capital scandal such as the one we have the minister present. [[Greetings. Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.153.0	After the interventions, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for revocation. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] I recall that for the revocation procedure a majority of three_five_parts of the chamber, that is, a majority of 81 Members. If this majority did not settle in a first vote, we would proceed to another vote in which the absolute majority would only be warm. In this sense, the votes claimed are in favour of revocation and the votes denied, against the motion for revocation. The vote begins. The revocation was approved by 121 votes to 11, with no abstentions. [[Perlongats applause.]] [[Member's compatibility situation]] [[234-00095/11]] The third point on the agenda is the compatibility situation of a Member. The second secretary, Mr David Pérez, will read out the opinion of the Committee on the Status of Deputies, which has also been published in the plenary's file.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.154.0	‘The Commission of the Statute of the Deputies, at its plenary session on 8 June 2016, granted the following opinion: Once the new data declared for Mrs Meritxell Roigé and Mrs Pedrola concerning her profession and the public authorities she occupies, in accordance with Article 19.2 of the Rules of Procedure and the applicable legislation, were examined, the Commission proposed to the plenary the compatibility situation of Mrs Meritxell Roigé and Mrs Pedrola, in addition to the provisions of Article 18.2 of the Rules of Procedure. Palau del Parlament, June 8, 2016.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.155.0	Thank you. Is this opinion approved unanimously? [[Pause.]] Okay. [[Proposition of the Law on Urgent Measures for Rationalization of Student Time for Academic Activities outside the School Time (totality debate)]] [[202-00021/11]] So now we move to the fourth point of the order of the day, which is: debate of totality on the proposition of the law of urgent measures of rationalization of the time devoted to the student to academic activities outside the lectual schedule. [[Widow's remorse.]] In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative is presented, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Sonia Sierra. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] And as always, we ask the deputies to come out quickly and quietly, please, so that we can continue with the session. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.156.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. And good morning to all the members of the chamber and to the guests who are with us today. "Occupying and working because of the fun seems foolish and very childish. On the other hand, having fun to worry about later seems to be fine, because fun is like a rest, and since men can't be working continuously, they need rest. Aristotle tells us in his Nicomacian Ethics. The latest studies have been published by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD, and the World Health Organization, which warn about the misuse of academic activities outside the lectual timetable in Spain, which we know, popularly, as deures. In the case of the OECD report, they are alerted that homework increases the gap between the most and least socioeconomically-favored classes, as families with a lower socio-cultural and socioeconomic level cannot help their children in schoolwork. The help they can get students, depending on their socioeconomic situation, is not the same and makes students with higher entrances or adults with higher students can give a reinforcement to their children, who are not at home with lower entrances or with families with a lower level of study. And this is especially difficult in the case of migrating people. It may be recalled, in this sense, that Catalonia has the lowest number of school children of all Spain in immigrant populations. And it is not, of course, a question of the families' will, but of the preparation at the time of being able to guide, at the time of being able to help the children with the school fees. And that, of course, is more complicated as we go up to academic level. This inequality has a negative impact on a lack of fairness in our education system, and, by extension, it has a negative impact on social cohesion, because, as all studies tell us, at a lower level of equity, lower social cohesion. Many of the tasks assigned to students require supervision by adults, which complicates the lives of most families due to difficult family and work reconciliation. So, not only do students feel the pressure, but their families too, when they arrive home after a long working day, as we have here in Spain, have to help their children and, in many cases, they have to fight 'hyper to be able to start doing their dues. For its band, the WHO warns that 25_percent of girls and 34_percent of eleven-year-olds feel a lot of pressure for dueres here in Spain. This exceeds the European average, which is 24_per_cent in the case of girls and 22_per_cent in the case of girls. These figures are even more alarming in high school, as they reach 70_percent of girls and 60_percent of boys in 15-year-olds, while the European average is 45_percent. I repeat, huh? : 70_per_cent in the case of young people here in Spain and 45 in European midjana. We're almost double. Finland and South Korea, which, as you know, always have a lot of good results in PISA reports, while Spain has some reports, so, a lot, a lot better, show us that more hours of dues do not involve a better school return, years against. The excess of school tasks lowers the motivation for the studies, according to the opinion of many pediatricians and children's psychologists, and, moreover, it can create family tension and a feeling of anxiety and irritability, which you have to see with these data that the WHO also gave us, since this pressure for the dues has an influence on the health of the students and the estress can lead to: headache, headache, abdominal discomfort, as well as nerves, tension and sadness. This pressure also implies a lower self-perception of salvation and worse satisfaction with life. And we don't, as I said, have any studies to show that dues are used to improve school income; we were talking about Finland and South Korea, that they have a median, in the case of Finland, of 2.8 hours per week for dues, and South Korea, of 2.9 hours, against 6.5 hours spent in Spain, and then we see that the results to PISA are very different. For this reason, and with the objective that during compulsory primary and secondary education the student and his family background may enjoy a proper balance between the time available to them for socio-sport or artistic activities, or simply for free time, we present this proposal of law, which introduces a maximum of time that must respect both the programmes and the educational curricula of compulsory education. For what the student spends on his duties outside school hours at the weekly time, what we introduce is a measure to try to rationalize and reconcile family life. And that in no case can we assume, nor do we want you to suppose, a reduction in the culture of effort, which we think the education system should promote. On the contrary, what we intend to do is to reduce the risks of pathological situations of the student due to an excessive or inadequately distributed academic load, while encouraging, and this is very important, coordination between the teaching staff, because what is currently going on at the school and the institute is that one teacher does not know the dues of another teacher. Then, on one side, coordination with the teachers, and on the other side, coordination with the family background on the part of the school. Now, it must be made clear that, obviously, this law proposal does not seek to prohibit debts and, not least, the extra-school activities that each family considers relevant. What we think is that we cannot, like now, have stressed students and, moreover, with low academic performance, and what we need to work on is in line with the welfare of the scoundrel and the good academic results. In Citizens we are very compromised by the rationalisation of hours and the reconciliation of work and family, and we understand that the rationalisation of the right forms part of this broader project, and that we know that the Catalonian Parliament is also very involved in this issue. The rationalisation they intend to achieve with this law is an ideal measure to achieve an adequate reconciliation of professional and family life. We, in the later term of office, submitted a motion for a resolution to the Committee on Education and Training, in which the Government of the Government of the Generalitat was called upon to draw up and submit to its Parliament a report on the guidelines on the subject of dues, which I will explain in more detail later, but which was rejected by most groups with the argument that "now it does not touch. Let's hope, even though I see that it won't be like this, but we expect it to be right now, and that's why we're putting forward a law proposal for rationalizing the time spent on academic activities outside the school hours, and we propose that hours spent on homework should not exceed two hours per week in the case of primary education, or five hours in secondary education. Obviously, this is a proposal that, if the law can be dealt with, it could be put into debate and it could be matisar. And we insist that it is not a matter of ending the culture of effort, but the opposite, that this effort is truly practical and that it serves something. What we think is that things have to be done in a more rational, more coordinated way between the different subjects, and they are – this is also very important – in keeping with the recommendations made by the international bodies specialising in education. Moreover, we believe that it is essential to follow up and evaluate the subject, since the dues must have a clear academic and pedagogical purpose. That's also very helpful. If extracurricular tasks are in place, they must have a clear understanding of their academic and pedagogical function and must be in the service of meaningful learning. You don't usually feel like you're putting in a pile of absolutely memoristic deures or filling holes. Above all, it is a question of opening a debate with pedagogical criteria, on educational quality, in line with what is happening in the rest of Europe. We don't ask that you haven't done it or done it to other countries. We need to let the experts talk and we need to let the education community talk. And also, as a matter of principle, teachers must be trained so that the tasks outside the lectural timetable are coordinated and so as to suppose, in fact, an authentic educational tool. Our proposal is based, on one side, on a better pedagogical approach, and on the other, on equal opportunities, in order to achieve a more equitable society and greater social cohesion. It may be recalled that at present, and this is very sad, the socio-economic situation of families is what has the most to do with the academic outcome of a student, and this is totally contrary to equal opportunities. That is why it is urgent to change this, if we really believe in the education system as a social lift. Our proposal is, therefore, a social and progressive proposal, and only from conservative positions and from thinking that it is all right, despite the fact that the international external indicators tell us once and another time that things are not right, only, I insist, from conservative positions we can veto the debate for a better amount of education; a debate in which we can make statements, decide whether the hours we propose seem right or not, whether we should leave more room for manoeuvre and not lay such clear hours. It is, in short, a matter of opening a serious debate on education so as to improve what does not work, which, as I said, is very much. Other parliamentary groups and even the whole educational community have tried to initiate, in this Parliament and during this legislature, a debate built to improve the LEC, but we have unfortunately seen, on every occasion, how conservative forces have united their votes to prevent it. In Ciutadans we will continue to do everything possible to improve an educational system that, unfortunately, does not work as well as it should, as the PISA reports show, the WHO and OECD reports. That is why we are asking this Parliament to allow the debate, that you will not be able to talk about the subject and that all the things that can be improved, that surely there is, can be put together. Preventing the processing of this law proposal is closing the eyes before reality and wanting to make it all right, and no, it's not all right. We have a few results, let's say, a few stimulants in PISA, we have very high figures of the European middle school in distress of the students, and I repeat this because it's a given that seems to me astounding: we are the autonomous community that has worse results in immigrant students from all over Spain. Our proposal, I repeat, is that what they want, above all, is to start this debate from a progressive point of view, and to the Commission of Education, in the last parliamentary term, has already brought a motion for a resolution that asked the Generality to make and submit a report that closed the existence or not, on the part of the department, on the debts, the weight or percentage of the debts during school and holidays, the impact of the debts on the family reconciliation and the time spent on minors, and a comparison with previous data with OECD countries. At that point, he voted against it. Looks like now, another time, we can't even start the debate, because conservative forces, like their own name says, don't want to change anything, huh? They want to keep what we already have and what doesn't work, and continue with the mantra of the success model, despite the fact that all independent reports tell us that this is not a success model. In fact, there are no independent reports either, there is no way to talk to the faculty to know that there are many things that do not work and that need to be changed. We hope that a new correlation of progressive forces will make it possible to advance in the quality of the Catalan education system and, if not, that we will stop vetoing educational debates, as has been the case every time that a proposal for an education law has been made to this Parliament during this parliamentary term. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.157.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, to defend the object to the totality, has the word Ms. Marta Pascal, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.158.0	Thank you; Madam President. Councillors, Members, Members, well, as has already been said, we are presenting, so, in total, it addresses this proposal of law presented by the Ciutadans Group, and it goes so far as to ensure that what we are doing here is a debate. Therefore, we, presenting a statement to the totality; in no case are we denying any type of debate, on the contrary, we are doing it here. And the attempt to unravel a little what are the arguments and considerations that lead us, therefore, to present this theme to the totality. It is obvious, honourable Member, that this is a controversial issue and that it is a matter, and that it is not just in our most concrete space, in Catalonia, in Spain, but at European and world level. Therefore, from the outset, we should fix ourselves, therefore, on certain conditions or on certain aspects that have to do with social organization, with timetables, with some traditions that prevail in some countries. So, in the first place, I think that what we have to do is put ourselves in context, right? , to put the general mark on this subject. And, in fact, we can go much further. Look, I'm going to put two examples of legislative areas very, let's say, very long in which it's space and in time. France, the year 1956, legislated banning the deures to schools, but reality is so rough that today French schools have deures to students. But the year 1956 France already legislated in this sense. In Austria or California, therefore, they do absolutely the opposite, legislation because this work is produced, right? , at ease, reinforcement at home by the students. So, from the start, disappeared from reality. And it's obvious that at the social level this controversy exists, and it's obvious that we've spent moments when the issue of dues fluctuated to put it on and at other times fluctuated to not put it on. Therefore, debate does not exist. Now, what is important to remember is that putting deures on the students supposes that here there is a teacher who has programmed, who has worked, who will also do, therefore, a whole follow-up; therefore, putting deures on the students obliges the students, but obviously obliges the teachers. And I think we also need to bear in mind that, therefore, this generates a responsibility in this faculty. And in a context in which we are, therefore, bringing the system to work for competitions, and obviously we bet for the autonomy of centers, we also enter into a totally different dimension. I recognize that depending on the age of the students, therefore, the duets have one impact or another, and probably the number of hours, therefore, must be able to vary; and, in fact, the bound of their proposal already said, right? : In the first place we put a quantity of hours and in the second place we put another. I understand you're actually going this way. But, of course, you're also referring, aren't you? , does a comparative analysis, quotes, well, some reports. I also have here, so the PISA report for international comparison for the best schoolgirl, that is to say, it is true that this issue is recurrent. But we find various considerations, and there is, in any case, no pedagogical recommendation to say that the hours of charging dues should actually be reduced at home. So, well, relatively, this is on the line that you pointed so much – so much – forcefully. Of course, you are proposing to us a modification of the Law of Education of Catalonia, so you are proposing to us to modify what is the general mark, the integral mark of which we have been endowed. In fact, in this Parliament, there have been changes in laws, therefore, partial ones, and this has been done over time, for example, the subject of school councils, to the autonomy of the centres; this has been done, concretely. But there's no idea... at any point in time what happened is to regulate an activity that goes outside the center, because you're planning to regulate an activity not from the center, but outside the center, and so that's why we don't have, so, a premeditated situation. We understand that changing the Catalonian Education Law, which is, I insist, a general framework, a global framework, which is a flexible framework, which must allow each government to deploy it in a concrete way, is not it? , of the establishment of the government plan and the electoral program of that government, so we believe that if that's what it is..., if you're asking us to change the Catalonian Education Law, then that's a mistake, because what you're doing is making it rigid. And, on the other hand, the statutory declaration of decrees that can be derived from this law does indeed allow us, therefore, to maintain this general mark, which is the Law of Education of Catalonia; which, of course, the Spanish State, from that, in a nutshell, because the legislature that makes, the new government that has, the educational law that makes. On the other hand, in this Parliament, which we have given ourselves, I insist, a general framework, a framework of consensus in what is the educated world, so we believe that this consensus and this dynamic of stability of the system of the head of the ways must be broken. Therefore, from a legal perspective, it seems to us that you are not opportune: you are not using the adient mechanism to want to regulate something like this, I insist, if it is to be regulated, because we, therefore, do not just agree. They do one thing: change the autonomy decree of the centers, huh? If you, then, at some point govern, do this; and if not, I urge the government to do it and let's talk about it again, but in what is the mark of the LEC, I insist, it seems to us that it is not close. Articles 18 and 19 – and I quote them, because I think that's a good part of the system's core, so – that's what this is about, and that's where the autonomy of centers is, isn't it? In this decree, therefore, it gives each centre the capacity to maintain its own profile, and to consider the general mark, I insist, which gives us the educational regulations of which we have been endowed. You make us a proposal that, from the point of view of time dedicated to deures, then, eh? Five hours in high school and two hours in primary school. I, when I did the exercise of looking, on a comparative level, what happens in some countries either of the OECD or of the same European Union..., therefore, listen to me, this is very different. If we look at the case of the Spanish State, from 2003 until 2012 we have been close to eight days to close to six. You're setting us up, in the case of high school, five hours. I don't know if we need to modify a law for an hour of difference. I don't know if we should continue to tell them, to the centers: "So, through your organizational autonomy, organize as you like this aspect. That, I insist, obliges the faculty, because it supposes, therefore, work, programming, follow-up and, obviously, evaluation. Therefore, from the outset, from the point of view of time, we are not so far from these trends that, I insist, they are not clear or unique; but, in any case, they can mark a line of work. We can also look at it from the point of view of work conciliation. We could say: "Home, it is obvious that arriving at eight o'clock on the evening home and having a lot of work to do, so let's plant ourselves, like the country, if that's what we want. So, probably not. But what you're asking and demanding is a comprehensive reform, isn't it? , and a country bet for which is work and family reconciliation, but not changing an aspect of an educational law. And if we look more at the pedagogical point of view, we here, so call, as I said, the autonomy of the centers. And, therefore, it seems to us that if we pose in this..., if we modify the law and pose this aspect that makes reference to school dues, what we do clearly is limit the autonomy of our centers. And it seems to us that this is one of the treasuries of our educational system. And, therefore, we understood that by 2009, when the law was done, and we are still maintaining it. Therefore, this has nothing to do with conservatives, progressives, labels, ideologies... No, no, no... this has to do with what is the hope and what is the treasure of the system. And it seems to us that the treasure is the autonomy of the centers, so that the teachers have, therefore, the value that they must have and that they are dedicated in body and soul in the fact that the students obviously have good academic results. Therefore, the question brings me back to whether deures yes or deures no. And I think that this should be situated, once more, in the decision to take that teacher in function, therefore, of the internal coordination that you have made in the center; in function, also, of the work of competitions, and in function of the dynamics and the style propitious to what each center is endowed through its educational projects. And that, for example, in so much..., that we like all as much as the days of open doors, that's where the center is explained, it's x-ray and it says: "So, we do things this way, we make this bet and we work this way. This is where we can probably place the debate. There's one more thing, which is the social impact. And, in fact, you're also referring to it, aren't you? The question will be – or I imagine the question is –: do school dues serve to overcome the class and differences in the performance of students? That is the fundamental question. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You say yes, make it with the head. I say to him, "Let's go a little further. What really makes it possible for us to overcome the differences in yields is to address this problem from a very comprehensive perspective. And that means... – that's what Finland is doing, and then we'll talk about it, but that's also what Catalonia is doing – so, for example, eliminate differences through much deeper things. The personalized school support that's already done in Catalonia and what do you see, huh? from the previous mandate with Constellera Rigau and that Constellera Ruiz, therefore, gave it continued. Because, in addition, the centers are comfortable and in many autonomous communities in the Spanish State they are asking us and they are telling us how we work, as we do, this works well for us, so let's get it done... So it's this attempt to define and see which students need it and at a complementary time we stay and make a reinforcement. And this is a comprehensive approach to the system. This is what Finland does through which they say "compensation programs". Therefore, it is obvious that we cannot only think that dues are the ones that really help us to address the differences and inequalities for what it does on the subject, therefore, of the performance of the students. If we have to solve it – which we want to solve – I insist on this need to do it from an integral perspective. And if you really are a question... in depth, the subject of school dues, I say to you: "Home, but you don't talk about the reinforcement and dues made during the summer. If we question the instrument, we question ourselves - not only during the year, but in everything...., eh? Let's ask ourselves the truth. Do you want to ban them? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I'm asking. If this really is the layout... man, they do the layout in all its size. There are examples of practical bonuses here, huh? For example, the courses made by the Barcelona consortium, penjat materials, on behalf of the XTEC..., well, students of earthquake that if they have certain needs, therefore, they can do a job throughout the summer and that this September is evaluated and has an effect on the notes that are held in the first trimester... Well, things are being done in this sense. So, and to finish, it seems to us that with all these ideas, what we do not have to do is change the Catalonian Education Law for what it does on the subject of school fees, we have to continue to bet on the autonomy of the centres and we have to continue to bet, therefore, on this work of competition and to give comprehensive solutions to integral challenges, such as, obviously, the theme of educational success. And I let him say that I follow him thinking that a quality education system does not drink of either ideology or labels or families; well to hear and want to see that the quality of the system rau in the teaching, rau in the students, rau in a good educational programming and rau, obviously, in a confidence in the system that we must give among all: couples, families and, obviously, educational community and those who at some point it is up to them to define the general mark that is also this Parliament. Therefore, we have presented a statement to the totality in this sense. Thank you, counselors, deputies and deputies. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.159.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, for the turn of the line, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.160.0	Thank you, Madam President. Annotated I find myself..., and I will start at the end, because..., that a person from Convergence and Union spoke of the importance of the faculty, to me who I have been twenty years as a teacher and I know what it means to a Government of Convergence and Union for the faculty – and if they don't believe me, this late the representatives of the educational community will be here – indeed it is because the face of shame falls. That's what I'm saying. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm starting to answer. The most ferocious details that have been made to the educational community in Spain have been made for this Government of the Generality, the rest of Spain are reversed and here they are not reversed. So, please, I'll stop talking in favor of the faculty because they don't have any legitimacy to do it, and I'll talk more about it later. Now I'm going to answer the answers you've made... the proposals that Mrs. Pascal's made. You see, in a debate about a bill's proposal, it's absolutely vetoed in a totality statement. We're not debating the law. If we leave each other, we can improve many of the things – I have already said in my intervention – of this law. You, as you have done systematically – at least in this legislature that I bring here... –, prevent the debate. But it's not what I'm saying, it's that a person from his group, from the Education Commission, told me: "We when a group presents a proposal of law respect the law, by system – by system – slaughter it, because we make a statement to the totality and do it by system. And that's what they said about your party. I have repeated on different occasions that we do not want to ban the dues of either summer, winter, or any season. And, in fact, with the motion for a resolution that was made in the past parliamentary term, a specific report on the subject of summer dues was called for. Then... man! With all that has evolved education, setting an example of the 1950s in France has not just been relevant, because I assure you that the whole subject of pedagogy has evolved much. In fact, we have already said in the intervention that what we want, precisely, is to give the word to the teachers and experts so that they can talk. I mean, at the moment we're trying to impose nothing, unlike other people who do tend to impose with the issue of education. Then, we have placed these hours simply because it was the most likely possible example we have found most favorable, which are the ones in Finland and South Korea. I've explained it, too. I think he didn't listen to me when I was talking. He was already carrying an argument, he read it, and he wasn't very attentive to the things I said, because they're not really related. Then, obviously, the faculty has responsibilities. If you want, I can teach you, because I keep all of you from all years with all the love of the world, my teacher's books, and you can see the thorough follow-up I did when I was right. What I said, because it's true, is that there's no way of coordinating between the different teachers. And that's it, that's why these figures come up so high, because there's no coordination, just. Later, the LEC has the support of the Parliament, but not of the entire educational community. I've... now, if I want to, I'll show you a few posters of all the major education unions against the LEC. If they have the whole educational community against the LEC! How can it be that there is a great deal of consensus here? So he'll have a consensus between you, but not with the educational community, which is to be given the voice. After, from their group... this, they told us that as soon as there was any attempt to change the LEC, the LEC melo does not work and what they do by system is the whole thing. Well, for me, that means being conservative. Don't want to change things? Be conservative. Want to change things? Be progressive. To want to change things to move forward is progressive and not to want to change them, because they think it's okay, it's to be conservative. Legitimate? Absolutely, but it's a conservative stance. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I don't know why he denies it, because it's very obvious. Then he asked me if the dues have an impact on the different social classes. I replied: "Yes. And I can answer it with all the certainty of the world, because it's because I've devoted myself to it for 20 years and I know what it means to a family that, for example, doesn't have a domain of the idiom. Imagine, for example, a dictatorship, therefore, in Catalan or Spanish in a Maghreb family. How are they going to do this dictatorship, for example, huh? And my nephew's been put down by dictatorships, huh? It's been four days. Don't say they don't have these kinds of duets because I saw him at my house. I didn't put them down, but I saw them, huh? This is happening, and, besides, a pretty innovative school. After that, support teacher and teacher for students with special educational needs..., we'll talk about it quite late, but really, I don't know how they can assume that it helps people who need it the most when we have – and I've repeated it two or three times – the worst numbers of school children in immigrant populations from all of Spain. If they really care about education and they really care about teaching, we can see it this late with a joint motion for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.161.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will now proceed to the turn of interventions to fix the positioning. In the first place, has the word Mrs Esther Niubó, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.162.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. In the first place, therefore, to thank Ciutadans for bringing this debate to the Parliament of Catalonia; a debate that concerns the families in a way that is growing, that is the object of the debate of the educational community and that has been a mot of reports and recommendations by different international organizations of prestige. In fact, since the Socialist Party in Catalonia we have also put forward a proposal for a resolution to the Commission of Education on the question, which we have not had the opportunity to debate at all times. Go so far as to believe in the culture of effort that dues or academic and study activities outside the school hours can provide to acquire skills and above all as measured to reinforce the learning that is shared in the classrooms, complement it or enrich it. And, said that, indeed, we are concerned, indeed, and therefore share this concern with many families, the impact that these academic tasks outside the lectural timetable can have on the physical and psychological salvation of children and adolescents, especially if it is an excessive burden. There has been talk of numerous studies, reports by the OECD, the World Health Organization, which warn of the harmful effects that these tasks may have on students outside the school hours, in the form of extremes, which may involve various pathologies – as has been said, headaches, backaches, abdominal pains, tidal pains, etc. – and WHO also notes that the percentage of Spanish students who suffer is due to their debts is from the highest in Europe. There was also a recent comment that spoke precisely of this influence of the dues on salvation. At eleven, 34_percent of children and 25_percent of children say they feel pressured by dueres, and at fifteen, the anguish of girls for these tasks can reach up to 70_per_percent, over 60 expressing the young, and this takes into account the fact that Spain is engaged in the middle of six hours and spends the week doing school work outside the centre before the middle of five hours in the rest of OECD countries. But, in the band of this impact of salvation, which is very important and to be considered, we are particularly concerned about the impact that the generation of inequalities can have, that is, its negative impact on equity, as long as the rights can contribute to increasing the differences between students according to the level of family income, because not all infants and adolescents have a family environment that can help them or accompany them to do these activities. In some cases, they cannot have this support, simply because the parents, therefore, are not at home, do not have time, but in others because of lack of cultural or educational resources of this environment. And, in this sense, we are particularly concerned that the exercise and development of these academic tasks in time cannot deepen inequalities already if very slow and difficult to reverse between those who can enjoy a follow-up in this exercise and those who do not have any type of support. And that's why it seemed very uncertain to us, as I said, therefore, to address this debate, if we think that it should be carefully done and always taking into account, therefore, the most immediate political and social reality, in this case the Autonomous Community, Catalonia, and obviously and especially the educational community and in concrete terms the experts. Let us think, as we put it in our motion for a resolution, that in the first place the Department of Education and the Department of Health can assess in a real way the effect that these school fees have on students, the pedagogical effect, whether they are useful or not to strengthen learning, or they generate dismotivation; on salvation, and also the social impact according to the criteria of equity, of the hand, as I say, of the experts. And plan, in its case, to plan a reduction in time devoted to these activities outside the lectual timetable, respecting the time, the need of the student, ensuring that they are a complement to the teaching activity, without ever becoming a social resource-driven breeze, and, obviously, also ensuring that they are never harmful to salvation. It is important to note the fact that a major load of these tasks does not generate a better academic, and this shows, therefore, cases such as that of Finland or others that have been commented on, that in the PISA report, therefore, they have very remarkable results, and therefore the Socialists and Socialists plan to limit and rationalize these tasks of the mother of the educational community in the context of the autonomous community, but probably also in a broader _framework of rationalization and rethinking of the timetables in general. Because, apart from the dues, it would probably be wise to make a broader debate, which I understand is taking place from the committee to the hourly reform, than reflections and proposals in the hours of the children; for example, at the school, which lasts to hold classes in order to perform a good performance, if all have to last the same, at which hour they must dinar, and also, therefore, outside, obviously, in the extracurricular hour, because it does not seem to be too much for the creatures to make a jig of activities every late, even though they are sports and artistic, and arrive home at the hour of supper, because, indeed, then, the stream that they can assume the dues, because it is scarce, therefore, to the extent that they may be overtired, even though it may be more difficult to accumulate. And, therefore, we understand that it is not appropriate to assimilate from a pedagogical perspective the working hours of couples with the hours of infants– the schools are not parks–, and, in change, it seems logical, therefore, to age for an adequate balance between educational activity, extracurricular activity, and thus to enjoy leave or the same rest. But, said that, it does not seem to us to correspond to the legislator, it is to say, to this Parliament, to determine the exact number of hours that the students must devote to these activities, including the deures, as Ciutadans claims. We think that the text of this proposal of law, therefore, can result in excessive interventionism, that it runs the risk of not respecting autonomy and the right criteria of teachers, teachers, experts, pedagogical autonomy, in short, and therefore we understand that we are not the deputies to whom this determination is to be made, but the experts. We do share the need to approach this debate, to instruct the Government, therefore, to study the question, as we have said, and then yes, from an expert assessment, to work for a rationalization of the time that also implies a reduction of school fees, if scale, that should contribute precisely to improving academic performance and also the physical and psychological salvation of children and young people, and vitulating for equity and equal opportunities in the most disadvantaged areas. It would also probably be advisable to coordinate more closely among the teaching staff of the different centres in order to distribute this load properly, which is not always the case. In short, however, we do not share the 100_percent of the foundations proposed by the Ciutadans Group in this proposal, but we do share the need to address this debate, to assess the hands of experts and the educational community more closely, hence the pedagogical and social impact of academic tasks outside school hours, and to ensure, in accordance with the conclusions, a reduction in the negative impact on health or the inequalities that may have taken measures, therefore, designed to limit the effects of improving in terms of equity and health. For all this, therefore, we will not give support to the threat to the totality, but the feeling of our vote will be abstention, thinking of working during the process, if it thrives, making contributions in the form of statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.163.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next is the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.164.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Sierra, we are grateful to City for placing this issue; we believe that it is a topic we can talk about and that we have missed a lot to talk about in the wider democracy process in this country. We believe that out-of-school activities have left them too often in the hands of centre autonomy. I agree, Mrs Pascal, that center autonomy is a treasure, but it's also a tailor's cove that we put in everything that we don't want or don't feel like we can regulate, and we tank it between and let the center crash, and we can't locate it at this point. We believe that we have sometimes left it too much in the autonomous, personal decision of each teacher, that it can be very different, and we have not wondered that sometimes the excess of, let's say, educational tradition almost always schooling us can place a little bit of the new social uses, of the new uses of time, of the new uses of knowledge, of the new uses of the relationships needed to society today. In any case, in this topic, what is obvious is that we have not had a social debate as well as we have done, for example, on other topics and other aspects of education. Now, Mrs. Sierra, the proposal that you do not solve this, I do not solve it; nor do I convince us of the form that you have given it, nor do I convince us of the opportunity – sometimes it would say "opportunism, but I do not say it because I do not know that... – because the text, and I will be forgiven, is a simple hair in that which you have presented, very reductionist and a naïve point, in order to solve a difficulty of society that is enough more extensive than social debate that would need to be done. Therefore, I also say to him, like the PSC before, that we will abstain from the debate to the totality presented; not because we do not believe that we can touch the LEC and open the melo – that we believe that it must be reformed –, not because we do not think that we cannot regulate for the law the educational social uses, all the educational social uses, but because we think of something as simple as making a much lower expected debate with the whole educational community. Previ; here's the key. That is to say, we agree with what, but we do not agree with how you put it, above all for a question: because this is an essentially pedagogical – essentially pedagogical – debate, and not a political one, that it must be done socially and that it must be done with the whole educational community and that, as the conclusion of this debate, it can end up having a political regulation, through a legislative amendment or through a new law. But I want to do this pedagogical debate on time. That is to say, we believe that the law's proposal should be the last step in a dialog process and not the first in an improvised way and without counting on the parent of the agents involved and affected. We think that we could start a broad debate with the educational community, for example, in the framework of a working group, which we would propose in the motion for a resolution on which the Socialist Member was speaking a while ago and which we hope and ask them to support. Now, why do we think the dues issue needs to be reviewed? - and we do. Above all, two reasons; one, you pointed out: that the OECD tells us that we are the fifth country where there is more academic activity outside of school hours is not a fish argument, no, no, but it does place us in the magnitude of the space that we occupy between the countries of our environment; with an added burden: that this quantity of deures, and above all its quality, does not guarantee nor lie down nor correlate with good academic results nor with the absolvement of competitions. And a second theme. At present, as a fan – and I repeat it, as a fan – deures are an important element of inequality between infants. Or isn't it true that there are favors for those who can pay for private schools and classes to do some activities that they couldn't do at school? Or is it not certain that the family members, their acquaintances, the family workspaces, do not allow adequate satisfaction with school requirements? That is, duets help some centers to be a breeding tool for social inequalities on account of a overcoming tool. I think you have gathered the petition of thousands of people made in a Change. Org. Of course it must be a repte, although it is a very little formal question, but it is a repte, giving answer to this issue because it is a manifestation of a concern, clear, social; there is, that concern. But we do not think that we can let go of three aspects envisaged if we want to offer solutions and not just put lines: first, we place the subject in the framework of a global, integral and participatory education, we place it here; second, we need to talk to the teacher in questions that directly affect his/her pocket – before–; third, we need to open a pedagogical debate to see what we need to do: if we need to eliminate the dues, if we need to reduce them, if we need to reorient them, if we need to transform them. Three aspects. First aspect. It would be unresponsible to address this issue without rethinking, for example, curricula and methodology, which are the direct cause of the way in which deures are conducted. Current school failure taxes – which the counselor knows perfectly – and low academic performance are not to be done but are not for the burden of dues. There are other concerns that are fears that we should seriously rethink, regardless of the issue of dues, how it could be to rethink the contents, how it could be to rethink the evaluation mechanisms, how it could be to enhance democracy in the centres, how it could be to improve the formation of the faculty, reduce the rates, improve the participation of families in the decision-making process of this system, which, overall, would be very worthwhile if we reconsidered in a serious way, rather than rethinking it again. Of course we cannot change legislation every four or five years, no; but perhaps we would find a new national pact that would be serious, and then its legal correlation, to ensure that educational laws, all educational laws, continue to be instruments of social cohesion and struggle against inequalities. For what it does to the second aspect, we cannot legislate a reform without taking into account those that have to apply it. We've been through this. We made a magnificent law, the LOGSE, and came to apply it without taking into account who should apply it, and from this magnificent law came all that came after us. Nor can we do this without taking into account all the diversity of centres and without taking into account all the diversity of the students. It is clear that what is happening now with duets in many of our centers should be avoidable. We cannot mechanically transfer to family hours, which do not have pedagogical control and which should not have academic content, but rather social, above all social, to which we have not been able to resolve at school hours. Over-curriculum? , perhaps yes, or due to methodological defect, perhaps also. And that's why an extensive and anticipated debate between the faculty on his pocket is essential. Last but not least, we need to rethink the deures model. We can't just set up a topall hourly, whether it's five hours, as if it's four, as if it's twenty-five, as you do in your proposal. We need to talk about the meaning of the dues, the meaning of the dues and their usefulness. What's the point of taking credit for? We need to talk about this seriously and we need to talk about it socially, but at the pedagogical level. We need to talk about the fact that students are not homogeneous, nor are they just the teachers, obviously, as we all know. We need to stop using our dues as a resource for what we haven't had time to do in one of the European Union's widest lectile times, and this indicates that something is failing us. We probably fail in methodology and probably have enough curriculum load. In conclusion, what we are raising is a broad debate on the timetables and educational times outside the centres, which do not represent an element that deepens social inequalities, nor do you represent an externalisation of the tasks that should be done at school. We believe that in this matter we must be able to broaden our eyes, and to place elements of personal growth in the family and social environment that the school task can achieve. In the hours the student is not at the center to enhance cultural habits, to promote social values, to acquire social skills, to reflect. We can do many things at this time, more than let our children play, that our children are related, that our children take advantage of to learn to esteem in a socially comfortable environment, that this is also their job, that they have to do at home. If we want to reduce our debts, if we want to transform them, if we want to make them go away, first we need to talk to families, teachers, students, we need to review methodology and curricula, we need to review materials and we need to review evaluation mechanisms. But above all, we need to think about how our children and our children must be socially competent. If we don't do all this before we legislate, we can fall into a simplism that means, in terms of solving a problem, as I said before, putting bullets and a much harder wound. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.165.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, there is the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.166.0	Thank you, President. "You are caste, they tell us. "You are privileged, they say. "You are there living from the tale, they tell us. So, what's the policy response? Many times, what is our answer before these accusations and before this clix? So, many times, I would say a few frantic legislative activisms, it is to say: "Come, I have to do something, I have to present things, I have to present myself to my constituents saying that I have made forty proposals of the law, I don't know what, I don't know how many, don't I? And like more laws, more colorful fears, more or less felt, so, you seem to have worked better, don't you? And, actually, we might be more frantic, but they don't make any more laws, but they'll just start to take the laws and say, "This is what we're going to do, this article is what we're going to do, here we're going to do fifteen articles... because in the end they're going to tell us – they're going to tell us – how we're going to string our Sabbaths, who we're going to read exactly to the schools, what we're going to dinar, because healthy habits are that we're going to dinate vegetables, I don't know what, so come on, all families are going to dink vegetables three days... So, listen, we have the right that we're going to die, too, the citizens, the right that we're going to die a little while we're going to die. And so, we have here a proposition of law that what it does is intervene directly in the hours of duets, or so, if the centers can say how many hours of duets we have to pose exactly. And this is an educational debate in which there is a plurality of opinions – there is a plurality of opinions – and therefore we will vote against this proposal, because what we want to do is precisely cancel plurality, impose a criterion, a single criterion, on a topic that is not closed, that is open, that there is a lot of debate, that there are many opinions and, therefore, we want each centre to be so simple that our model of education is very simple, it is not clear why we do not understand it: it is that each centre listens to its educational and pedagogical model and that each family listens to the centre that it wants. And if it can be, with a school girl so that there are no inequalities and that each one can go to whatever he wants. [[The timer laughs. Rialles.]] Well, listen'm, no... [[The timer laughs.]] Well, let him know that the German government, of the German green left, the only region that rules the green left, are in favour of differentiated school, so, I don't know, maybe they're from Opus, too, I don't know. She was just telling me about this. In any case, we have this model and, therefore, it seems more like a debate... I have to say in any case, honourable Member, that I am after the debate, and that it is a debate that does not cease to be important, that it is an important debate, but that it has not been a legislative debate, that it is a government debate, it is a debate of educational policies, it is a debate of the educational community; it is that we cannot regulate everything absolutely for the law, right? Perhaps it's a debate on educational policy, it can be a debate on the rule of law a time has been talked to the community, and it's true that from here I invite the government to reflect on this issue with the educational community, because as you said you have to see... – said the deputy, also, of Initiative and have said others – equity is also at stake in this issue, right? And it is true that if a family has bad material conditions or little tradition, therefore, of a culture of deures, of a school culture, it can actually harm them, right? But I'm also a little short of this talk about the extremes of infants and the extremes of infants. "Listen to me, give the lefts: "Life is fought – and life is fought. And we'll put people in the middle of..., people in cotton or so, that if..., well, listen'm, yes, then, it's clear that the tests also stress, it's clear they stress. And talking to Parliament can also stress, yes. So what do we do? We're not talking, are we? It's that life causes stress, of course... [[Rialles.]] Life causes extremes and we have to try to reduce it, but it matters, because it's that a few years from now a generation will come out that will have a frac and then it's going to sink all over the world, isn't it? And it seems to me that the problem – that the problem, the problem – is not so much the dues, that it can be; the problem is that like we don't have time for parents and mothers – like we don't have time – we point out our children – that we can, because it's true that others can't – so, in karate, in English, in summer and in revenge, and the poor kid, then, it does come out a little stressed. But the problem is not due, the problem is about parents and the seas, the problem is about the time model and the solution, as the Socialist MEP said, is hourly reform. And I'm advertising why we're on the clock reform committee, actually, right? And that's where a debate can be raised – that's where a debate can be raised, that's where a debate can be raised – school time – school time. Maybe I should extend it a little bit and then this time of deures that we're out, so we're between, right? What happens is that it's true that also..., listen to me, say: "We don't want a memory model. Well, yeah, but it's also... for example, the science, isn't it? , physics. Physics, in the end, you have to make problems and you yourself have to know how to solve problems, and that's what you or yourself have to face before the problem. And that can't only be done in class, it may have to be done when you're alone or alone at home. And what do we say? One hour. What if you go slower? "You're past the hour, come on, don't do the problem. So, it's that things are a little more complicated and so we think that the solution is time reform; the solution is also to give tools to families, and I also think that the debate is interesting and that they correspond to the Government with the educational community to do it, and in the end they correspond to each school and as I say – even though I don't like the company – that each family sort out the model they want. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.167.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word "Mrs. Mireia Vehí", of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.168.0	Thank you, President. That it is not used as a precedent, but I quite agree with what the Member of the People's Party was proposing. [[relays]] , minus the educated model, obviously. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. The joker laughs.]] I've already announced that I won't be so fun, but I'll try to be quick. A previa, I can't be: conservative-static, progressive-dynamic, seems to us that it's very simplistic, I had to say. And, besides, it's totally, let's say, flaunted by a political practice and it seems to us that we would have to... I mean, from here we would have to raise debates with a little more depth. And in this sense, it connects me with a paradox that a party like his, which is declared liberal and normally in favour of deregulation policies, wants to legislate the hours of dues. It seems to be quite paradoxical. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. The joker laughs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.169.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.170.0	We're tired, we're tired. So, you guys are planting... in the middle of... everything's been said, huh? I'm thinking about a model... a reflection of a model that's educational to the background, etc. But, of course, we are discussing the merits of conciliation, of equal opportunities, of the culture of effort... It seems to us that it would be much more coherent, instead of talking about conciliation, talking about hourly reform or talking about the ILP, which in this Parliament could not be discussed. Instead of talking about equal opportunities, we should be able to talk about school segregation, about material conditions of existence, why there is no equal opportunities, and not about hours of dues. Instead of talking about the culture of effort, maybe we could talk about the model of private education and we could give it some time. And that, therefore, coincides with all the previous interventions that this must be a debate of public educational policies and that a bill on rights does not see it relevant. Still, we will not support the whole thing; we will abstain from it, it seems to me that as Catalonia's Companions Yes, it is Pot. And why should we abstain? In the first place because it is a way to open a debate about the LEC, which has not been possible until now, so we understand that, therefore, we will take advantage of it and that, I mean, it is an instrument that can lead us, perhaps, to talk about an educational model that we, from the CUP - Constituent Creed, are very interested. And the other is because we understand that point 5 of Article 54 is an issue that concerns the educational community since long ago and that therefore we will not deny it either. Still, and I'm done, a fundamental education debate is essential, and now the place is yours, essential. It is imperative to bet on equal opportunities by changing the material conditions of existence and not putting down dashes, this is also a waste. And finally essential, it seems to me that it has also been said in this chamber, to put forward legislative proposals that vaginate from the hand of the educational community, that in this country we have not had enough to impose educational legislation totally alien to the participation of the educational community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.171.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We are calling for a vote, because once the debate is over, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a totality tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes. [[Long pause and remorse.]] Let's take a moment... yes, there's a congresswoman who doesn't look well, let's take a moment... [[Pause.]] The doctors are coming, aren't they? The medics are coming. [[Long break.]] We're celebrating the congresswoman's recovery. [[Greetings. Widow's remorse.]] The vote begins..., we vote on the speech to the totality presented for the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes. The vote begins. It was adopted by 72 votes to 25, with 34 abstentions. As far as totality has been approved, this initiative remains rejected. The session is suspended until a quarter of four in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.172.0	Good afternoon. [[Proposal for a resolution on educational needs for the 2016-2017 course]] [[250-00505/11]] Let us resume the session with the fifth item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on educational needs for the 2016-2017 course. In accordance with Rule 165.1 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposed resolution may be submitted by the group(s) of the members of the Parliament who are the authors of the proposal. Since the motion for a resolution has been tabled jointly by five parliamentary groups, we shall proceed, first of all, to the turn of these groups, for a maximum of two minutes each. It has the word, therefore, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the illustrious deputy Mrs Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.173.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all the members of the chamber, and especially to the companions of the educational community who are accompanying us today. Before I devoted myself to politics, I devoted myself to teaching for 20 years, and fifteen years to public school, with which I am very clear about what Convergence governments mean for the Catalan public education system. I have said this on other occasions and I repeat again: the mandate of Mrs Rigau was that of the pherotic detail, that of the worst working conditions of the teacher and, what is still worse, that of the worst working conditions for the students. As an example, I will explain that I had to buy an anorac of lead to be able to donate classes, of the cold that I did in the classroom. And, look, still, I was winning my son, it was my job, and what we're gonna do, but the students came in with coats so they could warm up, 'cause he couldn't be in class. That's right, then it's all about filling your mouth with the Catalan school's success model. Mrs Rigau took advantage of a crisis situation to make details in much higher education than the details of the premise, and, in addition, some details that were only applied to the public school. Mrs. Rigau doesn't believe in public education, she's not her model. And that's why the Jaume Bofill Foundation came to the conclusion that it was about ideological detail. Mrs. Meritxell Ruiz is left behind by Mrs. Rigau and she doesn't believe in public education. These things are difficult to store, because, one way or another, they are passed on. On February 10, during Mrs. Ruiz's appearance before the Committee on Education, I asked her about the best educational results of other autonomous communities respect Catalonia, and her answer was, I read it textually: "You spoke of other communities, which if they have better or different results. It is also true that there are communities that have aspired to other models, where the private system has a very high level, and the private system makes its choice, makes its programming, etc. This is not the system we decided in Catalonia. When I got home, I had to see the video to make sure I felt what I thought I felt. I do. Indeed, I had said so with all the letters, and here I have the transcript in case anyone has any doubt of my words. In response to my question about the best academic results of other autonomous communities, Mrs. Ruiz's answer was that the private system has a very high level of competence in other communities. He literally said that. I mean, more of the private system, better results, according to Councilwoman Meritxell Ruiz. Or what's the same: more of the public system, worse results. These words I have here at the transcription are a lack of respect for all people who, unlike the teaching counselor, do trust in the public school, a lack of respect for the families who choose this model and the professionals who leave the hair every day to maintain a good level of educational quality despite working every day in worse conditions. As I have already said, neither Mrs Rigau nor her wife, Mrs Ruiz, believe in public school, as demonstrated by the ideological details or the words that I have literally quoted. And today we find ourselves with a new example, which is why this joint motion for a resolution, which has fully agreed with the opposition; a motion for a resolution in support of the directions of the school centres, which have denounced the details announced to the Government, which directly affect the attendance of the student and the quality of education; some details that precisely damage the student that needs the most support, the student with special needs. This student has to focus much of our efforts, because if they don't, we'll have a less equitable and unequal society, which is directly antisocial cohesion. In fact, in Citizens we are proposing to all of Spain to invest more in support staff at the beginning of the teaching, which is how much more it can affect. What is called for in this joint proposal is basically to stop dismantling public education. They're asking for tiny things, huh? Really. First of all, keep the seedlings, the professional education supplies, which are already under what they should be. I give another real example: when I joined my institute in 2007 there were four people in the department of psychopedagogy; when I left 2015 there was only one left, which gave more classes. I mean, he wasn't just dedicated to student care, he was teaching classes, and the poor were always about to take the bass because he couldn't do it anymore, the job overload. It is also called for to cover the needs..., better staff and specific resources derived from the schooling of students with specific, special educational needs..., and attention to diversity, because there is no talk of inclusive school and no giving resources, because if it is not a deception. And it's also asked – and that's very important, and during trading no one wanted to give in, obviously – to cover staff cuts from the first day and from the 1st of September. This is a key demand for the quality of the education system, because right now students can be up to fifteen days without a substitute teacher. And, yes, they're guarded – so, guarded – for the guard teacher. But this professor, if he's, I don't know, Catalan, he's hardly gonna be able to teach chemistry classes. Personally, I wouldn't see it with color. And in this way, students, while being with a teacher in the classroom, can hardly advance matter with quality. Finally, the Government is urged to ensure that the supply is sufficient to cover the demand for all applicants for food aid to complete the barems. I think this is one of those points in which, regardless of the ideology of each of us, we all agree, because we can't accept from any of the ways in which it is here in Catalonia that we don't have basic needs covered, and that's more basic than a good diet. Finally, I would like to finish my intervention by making a direct reference to Councilwoman Ruiz, who throughout this process blamed the opposition of these details for not having approved the assumptions, and specifically designated the UPC, because here we have gone from the "Spain in clothes" to "the UPC does not leave us. Miri, Mrs. Ruiz, with all due respect: I stopped blaming the opposition, you took on your responsibilities and trusted the public education system, because thanks to the public school, where I, unlike you, did study, today I can talk to you from this rostrum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.174.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Group, Mrs Esther Niubó is now quoted as an illustrious Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.175.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. First of all, a greeting to the educational community, in concrete terms to the different members of the MUCE who accompany us to the rostrum, and also to the people and other entities who can follow us through the networks. The truth is that the last two weeks we've had political moments a little worrying. We were witnesses of a whole attempt by this Government to use the educational community, I would say in an unworthy manner, communicating the suspension of the expansion of nine staffs in view of the course that will begin in September and guilty of this decision by some concrete party, and of the whole opposition, for not having adhered, and said adhered, to a presupposition presented, for sure, without any type of willingness of dialogue and negotiation with the rest of the groups. It seems to me, frankly, a bad practice that takes into account two things. One, as I said, is the government's irresponsibility to attribute these new details, which would be added to those that suffer from the education system since 2012, at a time when it has failed to try to approve assumptions without any kind of dialys planned with the rest of the groups, when, moreover, in many places the decisions taken do not depend on the approval of these assumptions, but there were already agreements of government, concretely on May 31st, not linked, therefore, to the approval of our assumptions. And, secondly, especially in order to play politically with urgent needs that the public education has to strengthen the endowments to guarantee a true model of inclusive school and to attend, therefore, the students with special educational needs, as well as the centers of the most disadvantaged and at risk of social exclusion. It is to say, arise for a moment to leave unanswered the most urgent needs of the education system without guaranteeing minimum conditions of fairness and quality. In this sense, the PSC at once publicly expressed itself to the Government to stop looking for blame for its irresponsibility and to take all necessary measures to ensure the resources provided to fight against educational inequalities and for an inclusive school model, correcting its decision to suspend the expansion of new staff for the coming course and demanding that the education professionals and the educational community's conjunctions not be abandoned. I would like to point out that it is not a trade union demand, I say between comets, but to guarantee the support and the resources necessary to ensure quality education and to adequately attend to the students, as they deserve. In concrete terms, what did the department communicate to directors and directors? So he was communicating details of seedlings, teaching staff and other professionals who had worked in the centres during the later course – and, by the way, on the margin of current assumptions – which would imply a loss of quality in the attendance of the already educated students. And, on the other hand, the non-incorporation of support endowments provided for the new course, when it is expected that it will increase with more than eight hundred teacher endowments for us groups and secondary classes, educational cycles, childhood education and primary education, as the number of students has increased to all levels of education, and taking into account, moreover, that this increase in the studenthood has been produced for years without the corresponding contract of new staff. And this is done after approval of the 31 May government agreements, which already agreed to improve the assignment of the teaching staff to maximum complexity centres, beyond the CAEs, for the proper course, which implied an increase of 240 endowments in 149 schools and 160 in 79 institutes; assigning us teaching staff resources in the inclusive school framework and beyond the many times announced inclusive decree – certainly not yet presented; improving the presuppositional assignment in the concept of permanent formation of the teacher, abandoned from years ago, from the entrance of the Government of Convergence; recognizing also the quarter and fifth stage of promotion docile of the staff involved and of religious work, based on perpetuity, between the legal, and institutional coverage. That, yes, he was always doing so by using the right of the teacher as the currency of change, because he was planning, therefore, to withdraw the reduction of the two teaching hours available to the teacher of more than fifty-five years, a measure that affects seven thousand people, and also to renounce the payment of double pay to the substitutes of more than six months that are right, that affects five thousand teachers and teachers. It is to say that with these nine right-wing retailers, of 21,000 docents out of 70,000 existing, generated a savings of 24_million euros to finance the previous measures. And there was also a later measure in the agreements, this if only the one that gave rise to the approval of assumptions, without which it is difficult to extend the salary and to touch Chapter I of the Government, which is what it had to see with the summons of objections. However, as we say, with the exception of this point, the remaining agreements were already closed, compromised, without presuppositional implications arising from a new assumption, which could certainly have been approved, and even though it might not have been effective until the course principle had entered well..., and which had not even been foreseen in the extended 2015 assumption. Therefore, they were not conditional on the approval of a new premise, but, in any case, they were necessary measures to cover the need for schooling in conditions of equity that require the government to initiate the solution. And, therefore, taking into account the urgency of the matter, which affects the initiation and planning of the course, which the centres should leave closed in the next few weeks, we decided to proceed with this motion for a resolution at the request of the MUCE joint in order to try to find solutions to the problem as quickly as possible. And we don't know whether it has been due to the attendance of elections or the pressure effectively exerted for the educational community that the department has rectified, which we celebrate. Now, the rectification has occurred in the middle. Think it's still insufficient. And that is why this motion for a resolution continues to be heard. Because what we are asking is the government to develop the instruments provided for in the law to obtain resources to keep the plants of the professional education that we leave behind this course, to cover all the needs for the correct schooling of the student – the creation of nine classrooms or public centers, and in particular to assume the best resources to strengthen the inclusive school and fully cover its needs – and, finally, to incorporate the replacement of the basses from the first day and from the 1st of September to all the public centers of Catalonia. Clearly, we saw the papers presented by Juntes for the Yes, which initially seemed to us to be concrete little, which really compromised little. But after a last-minute negotiation, this media, in short, and the acceptance that the MUCE has had, we have moved on to a little more drafting, to specify certain endowments. And, therefore, let us hope that if it is approved it can be brought to term. Now, there's a lack of significant compromises on the subject of bass coverage, which seems to us to be phonental to reinforce the student's attention. And neither do they – and, in fact, here the department has already recognized that it will stay out of the solution – of the formation of the faculty, so oblivious and so necessary at the same time. And obviously, in order not to talk about many other needs, better pending the education system, such as construction, remodeling, many centers and a lengthening etc. But ultimately, with the actions we have experienced, which addressed and touched upon urgent issues and before which solutions have been found sufficiently precarious, this government continues to welcome this Parliament and the educational community. And, in fact, we are still waiting for a major compromise with public education, with inclusive school, including the approval of the decree, with adequate attention to a student each time more diverse, with the faculty, especially as the foundational pillar of the system that carries on its retail spaces since 2012, without tools as training can be, and with the fight for equity, especially at less-favorable, at risk of exclusion. And, therefore, we ask them to take those presuppositionary measures that convince from the wide margin that they all have, that mark the law; that they do whatever it takes to get a decent start for everyone, and that they start working from now on, too, on a premise that takes into account the LEC's mandate to reach a 6_percent educational investment in GDP. We know we're still far away, but at least I'm taking it very seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.176.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word the distinguished deputy Mr Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.177.0	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, say hello to the MUCE's company and friends who are here. For us, for the group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, it is all an honor, a pride, to be able to be useful today in the demands of the MUCE with this modest function of representation that the educational community constantly poses in defense of the teaching, and more in concrete of the public teaching. This is a motion for a resolution tabled by all the smaller groups together for the Yes, which certainly had the opportunity to sign it initially. It is the answer to one of the most unworthy moments that Catalan politics has experienced in the past few years, and I am surprised that we have not experienced some. And it will allow me, Madam Counselor, when I speak of unworthy moments to you, to look deeply at you, to look deeply at you. Because we have witnessed the indignity of a whole government that, in order to cover up its incompetence and political fear of not being able to approve some assumptions, among other things because it did not guarantee the necessary votes, among other things because it refused to talk to certain opposition groups, among other things because they had important discrepancies in the government, it turns out that when the assumptions do not come out, it decides to launch a systematic campaign of lies, falsehoods, so that Vice President Junqueras says that he never does, but that he has to be in charge of other members of the government because they do so in relation to the impact that this law has of assumptions. But, like you're telling lies, you've only been cheating seventy-two hours to be flushed. Because I think that indignity, too, in politics has a few limits. You have used the educational community, the schools, the institutes, the directors, the teachers, the families, as real ostatges, as real human listeners of your party politics. Until today I thought it was for electoral reasons, for the 26th. Listening today to Councillor Comín – then we'll talk to Vice President Junqueras – I think this is much more structural. It is that you have decided to place yourself in a strategic, constant, structural way, in this lie, which I suppose you want to repeat for a long time, that you can't do anything because you didn't approve the assumptions, when you know that this is not true and your own behavior has shown it. You have been able to instruct your territorial delegates to summon school directors and institutes to tell them that what they had bought with them could not be done because of the opposition, which some school directors and institutes were pleased to do, because they are not used to being so much indifferent to them, usually if the instructions were sufficiently bureaucratic. That he's summoned him was fine, but that he's summoned him in this way and to tell you this I don't think he was adequate. Even so, you dared to organize a trip... organized by certain school directors and institutes in the Catalan Parliament. Because sending them here, to the Parliament of Catalonia, was a very clear image: the fault is of the Parliament of Catalonia; the Government, at the Plaça Sant Jaume, or the Council of Education, do not have any type of responsibility. You have caused a level of anxiety, insecurity, to the centers – to which you are already subject, you know, to the tension, in these very complicated course endings, of scheduling the course with a few minimum conditions – absolutely unnecessary, which has further affected certain collections that are just the sectors that need the most protection of the public sector and of public powers: inclusive schools, centres of high complexity... Because to announce them at times when they were announced that they would not have the resources necessary to start the course because it turns out that opposition groups had carried poorly, they were very painful, and insensitive, they did not have a social feeling, it was a lie, Mr. Vice President, that is repeated. And I hope you stop doing it, because if you don't stop doing it, we will continue to insist on the qualification of falsehoods and lies. Interestingly, seventy-two hours after you signed this before the institute directors, you find the solution. The solution they had not found seventy-two hours before, they found it. Or, it may well be that the measures can be agreed upon with a high degree of presupposition. I could do it. Of course I could do it. I have the Presupposition Prorogation Decree, I have the same Public Finance Law as the Generality. But you, for some reason incomprehensible to me, from the point of view of what is the responsibility of the education council, decided to follow this strategy. Madam Counselor, you, I suppose, are aware of the situation that is experienced at the centre at the end of the course, of the tension situation that is experienced, of the tension situation that sees the joint of the department to square all things. I know it's not easy. Do you really think it's legitimate to have forced the distress situation that those people were living when the solution that was then given to them, even though it was partially, could have been perfectly predicted, because there were no assumptions made for some time that it might have been predicted? In fact, for other games, you had already predicted it. Then we'll talk to Mr. Vice President about how some parties do have a solution and others don't. So, well, these are the reasons for our joint resolution proposal. But, logically, it is also the response of all groups, less together for the Yes, to the petition of the MUCE, the Marc Unitari of the Educational Community, who came to us with a certain despair because we gave a hand, because the Parliament played its function of control of the Government and forced to adopt a series of measures that at that time the Government and the Council were not willing to adopt. The proposal that we have put before you is a proposal of the least, and you know it, that I do not solve all the problems of resource plants, of precariousness of the doctrinal conditions, of the lack of planning... I do not solve them, because they can not solve easily, and I have no problem to recognize them - it. But it has some basic aspects, the proposal that we have proposed, such as guaranteeing the compromise of 540 more endowments, 400 for special complexity centres and 140 for inclusive education; as one thing that we do not resolve today, but that you cannot continue to elude, which is the situation of substituting for the download. Nobody tells him it's easy. But the situation that centers have today with the replacement of the bass is unsustainable. One of the things that the directors give us the day we met with them is: "Do you know what it is to do as directors, at last, this replacement of the downloads that the department doesn't give us? The directors or directors... but that's the situation where the seedlings of many of these centers are distressed. Miri, they didn't have an alibi or an apology. But for some reason, for some incomprehensible reason, you decided to use this as a weapon against opposition groups. Well, they've rectified. Turns out, there was a possibility of finding resources. Not all of them, because in the end they resolve it only partially, but there was – there was. He said: "The vice president has authorized me a series of expenses. But that's what you could have done by now. If I do it every day, you! You know that they have mechanisms to modify credits, transfers, expand credits, that allow them to do this. I've done other things. You say that you have 211_millions available – I think I remember 211_millions of memory – to be able to develop certain types of policies and that they can't use them now because they don't have assumptions. I replace it, Madam Counselor, because we clearly discuss who are those things that were included in the assumptions that cannot make use of the credit modification mechanisms provided for in the Law and in the Public Finance Law of the Generality. The place and we're discussing it. And if you tell me there's something you can't do, and the vice president can't... we'll suggest a mechanism. For example, what the Public Finance Law of the Generality provides, which is the approval of extraordinary credits. You know that, because they did it. Well, in fact, then I'll remind the vice president again, in the first four months of the year, this was done with 450_million euros, the set of games. Because, if resources are there, they have so far told us that they are there, which we are beginning to doubt, what it is necessary to do is to enable the necessary credits to be made in order to fulfil the presuppostarial commitments. And that's, yes, that's what we're planting today. Well, in the end, because the Marc Unitari of the Education Community has asked us, and we like to represent ourselves properly, we have done it and we have accepted some transactions, which I honestly believe do not solve the problem of funds. But they've asked us, and we seem to have an opportunity. Clearly, I have already warned them, and I am telling you now in public, that we have done so because many of them are trade unionists and believe that if one thing votes for the whole Parliament it is sacred. It's that they believe in the covenant I'm serving, that the agreements are to be completed. What they don't know is that here we have a rule of resolutions approved, whether unanimously or not, that they all have the same value, of the Parliament of Catalonia that the government doesn't complete..., or after that it does have with this layout. I'm done – I'm done – they just say one thing: among the great things that remain pending today..., it's the subject, clearly, of substitutions. It cannot continue to function, the education system, with the precarious situation in which the educational centres are found in the matter of substitution. And, please, ma'am will advise: avoid any moments of indignity like the one that starred us during these weeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.178.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs María José Cuevas has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.179.0	Thank you, President. Well, I join in welcoming the previous speakers to the MUCE members present at the plenary session. Well, the situation of Catalan teachers, of officials attached to the Generalitat, in general, is beginning to be unsustainable and profoundly unjust. These Catalans suffer from a comparative aggravation in relation to the other officials of the State, which is only explained by the managing inability of the Catalan Government, its scale of values, twisting and mistaken, and its lack of commitment to reality. That we have been through the worst economic crisis in a long time and that we have all had to make adjustments we know. As we know, the worst adjustments, in quantity, intensity and duration throughout Spain have been applied by the Catalan Government to its officials. It has not applied them to its high offices or to its state structures, it has applied them mainly to public education and health, worsening the working conditions of public sector professionals and virtually eliminating the minimum investments needed to maintain these quality public services. But we also know that throughout Spain the economic situation is improving, and also in Catalonia, as the Government of the Generalitat knows, which a few weeks ago presented us with a budget for 2016 with more than 1,200_million increases in expenditure. An increase that Vice-President Junqueras justified because of the increase in collection and the lower cost of debt. Greater collection by improving economic activity, as in the rest of Spain, the country which is growing the most today in the euro area, and reduction of the public debt of the Generalitat thanks to the financial support of the Government of Spain, which can access the markets to certain types that are today banned for Catalonia, precisely because of the disastrous economic and financial management of those who have been ruling the Generalitat these years of crisis, which, logically, generates very little confidence in any investor who does not act out of solidarity and territorial vertebration, as the State does. And finally, we know that throughout Spain the cuts to officials are being reversed, because those cuts were raised as a timely and reversible effort, as a solidarity effort that now has to be returned. Officials throughout Spain, except in Catalonia, are recovering wages and working conditions. In Catalonia the cutbacks were stronger: three extraordinary cutbacks, compared to one in the rest of Spain. The cuts are not reversed, and even now, in recent weeks, we have learned that the Government intends to apply new cuts in education for the next course. And the excuse is that, since the budgets have not been approved, the planned measures of increase and consolidation of staffing cannot be implemented. The excuse is that, as the CUP did not vote for their budgets, nothing can be done to increase public spending. I mean, it's the CUP's fault. I suppose that of all those who voted for the amendment to all the budgets. The approach, the Government's explanations are not serious. In addition, you are distorting the information that reaches people through the media, or through the directors of educational institutions themselves, that you all already know that you were called to meetings in your respective territorial services a couple of weeks ago to explain all this to them. And so that they could transfer it to the rest of the educational community: that the templates could not be expanded, that they could not attend inclusion, that they could not cover casualties, that they could not call oppositions, beyond those three hundred places of FP that remained a little unconcrete; that the thousand barracks were assembled to stay, that the substitutes would not charge in July, that the older than fifty_and_five years would return to the time overload of the worst years of the crisis, and that, well, they would ingenuate them as they could in their institutes to give class to the new high school groups without new teachers. And all this because the evil opposition groups had not wanted to approve their 2016 budget proposal. The truth is that it is difficult to imagine a more partisan use of the public educational structure, transferring incorrect, opaque, incomplete information; ultimately, pretending to intoxicate the educational community by deceiving the, and with the aim not only of not taking responsibility for its management in these years of crisis, cutting before and more than any other community, but also of blaming the parties that we neither govern nor decide on what public money the Generalitat is spent on. Of the 37,745_million_euros of public money planned to manage the Generalitat in 2016 [[the speaker shows a full camera]] – here they have it, this comes out of the official budget portal, on the Generalitat website –, only 32,738 arrive at the Generalitat subsector; the rest, 5,000_million_euros, remain on the way, paying public entities, foundations and consortia, not all of them justified and of course virtually uncontrolled in their budget management. There are 393 public entities, according to the official information of the Ministry of Finance – here we have it, in a press release–; we are the autonomous community – here they are all – that more public entities have, and many more than any other: we have 236 public entities more than Madrid, which has 157; 278 more than Galicia and Valencia, which each have 115; in fact, in Catalonia we have more public entities than the sum of the entities of Madrid, Galicia and Valencia, and these are the ones that have the most, with the exception of Andalusia, another example, such as Catalonia, of efficiency and responsibility in public management, which has 331 public entities, and yet it has 62 less than Catalonia. The question is whether we really need all these entities that do not need other communities that manage the same services as Catalonia. And then there is another issue, which is the cost and budgetary miscontrol of these entities, which depend on the departments of the Generalitat but which go a bit for free. Thus, looking at the budgets of the Generalitat we find wages improper for the public sector. At times, the department's General Secretariat does not control them, such as the over €90,000 in salary that some directors of these entities have, or the artificial reductions that are made with these entities, which are closed, but all staff are transferred to another entity at their cost. Or the irregularities and excesses that are committed, which are not constituting a crime, are not acceptable, and less so in years of cuts, and all of us who have been in the Committee on the Union of Auditors know that. Therefore, there is much to rationalize, cut and rethink with these entities that cost us 5,000_million, some doubling functions of the state of the Generalitat before cutting in education. But, of course, these are the foundations of the famous state structures that an autonomous community does not need but a state, of course, yes. The truth is that we believe that it has been very daring to pretend to build an independent state that is not and that it has not been easy in years of crisis and restrictions; in years of cuts in essential services to pose new expensive and unnecessary structures we believe it has been an unresponsible audacity. That's why former President Mas has failed with his national transition and that's why President Puigdemont is also failing with his process, because people don't understand that our rulers spend money on unnecessary, mere futuristic things, when they're not paying the necessary and immediate things. And that is why we do not vote for the budget presented to us by Mr Junqueras with a Catalan tax agency that we do not need, or an external action for which we have no competence. Because politics and public spending must be at the service of the people and not of the government party and its political project. That is why we are voting against the budget of the process, and that is why we are now presenting this motion for a resolution, because the government, while hiding it, has mechanisms to adapt budget implementation – if it recognises reality, of course. That is why Parliament can be asked to make specific budgetary amendments which we can, logically, or not approve. I have consulted and I have been told that yes, there may be credit changes. And it is clear to the Government that we will not approve budgetary amendments so that the Romeva Councillor will travel around the world explaining the process, nor that Vice-President Junqueras will set up a tax agency in which he does not trust even the own tax inspector who signed up to set up the. But the government can count on us – and I would say that with all the opposition – to approve budgetary amendments to consolidate staff in education and health, to return the extra to officials, at least in 2012, and, ultimately, to guarantee the minimum quality that we can demand of the priority public services for which we are paying the highest taxes in Spain. That is, in essence, the justification for this motion for a resolution, calling on the Government to use the legal mechanisms at its disposal to normalize the situation in the education system, to alleviate and resolve the shortcomings that are already beginning to be structural in our education system, which has not only been attending to more pupils with fewer teachers and teachers for years, but is also discouraging those teachers who have been striving for less and less in return. Look, this is not the basis of any quality public education system. We believe that the Catalan pupils do not deserve it, we believe that it is not justified and that it is our duty to try and get the Government to rectify, as will the government's obligation to fulfil what this Parliament approves, if in any way it values the prestige of the Catalan institutions, the institutional loyalty between the Government and the Parliament and the democratic quality of the Generalitat. The rest, ruling outside parliamentary resolutions, reality and people, is nothing but authoritarianism and the desperate action of those who know without objective and convincing reasons. Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.180.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word "Mrs. Pilar Castillejo", of the Parliamentary Group Candidate for Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.181.0	Thank you, President. MPs, councillors, this month of June, a few days ago, the councillor informed about the details that she would make in teaching staff, from other professionals to the school plants. And with this explanation he specifically, quite clearly, said that these details were motivated by the non-approval of the 2016 assumptions. It's true – it's true – that with high presupposition there's not everything you can do; it's true that you can't extend the expense floor, but you can do a lot of things. As it has just become clear with the proposals he has made today, the proposals he has made to the motion for a resolution and which we will finally approve with this proposal today. It is clear that many things will come to an end with this enlargement, with this presuppositional extension. Everything that I go back to with this proposal that refers to seedlings, endowments, groceries..., all this was already foreseen to the 2016 presupposition proposal and is what we will now incorporate with this extension. The first conclusion, therefore, is that these details he announced a few days ago were not the consequence of the non-approval of assumptions. Then why did he say otherwise, Counselor? The directors explained to us that you brought them together and that you literally told them that the CUP..., because you had not approved the assumptions, you had to make these details. He told them to gather the cloisters and explain them to the teachers that because of the CUP and that they had not approved the assumptions, they had to make these details. They explained it to us, directors explained it to us, teachers explained it to us, that you literally told them that way. And this, we just saw with this motion for a resolution, it clearly lacks..., it lacks reality. The conclusion that we have, she advises, is that she has used teaching politically; she has used it, I understand, to campaign politics. Because... well, that's what we could arrange during the June 26th campaign, which used the CUP to campaign politics; that's what Convergence did during the campaign, attack the CUP and campaign with it. So the councillor also did it with the directors, attacking the CUP. So, well, we think that's how they went – that's how they went – with this campaign they've been making. The second conclusion that we can draw from the proposal that we are bringing here today and that we end up approving the proposals that you have also incorporated together for the Yes, was that why then had these details been made, if they were not necessary because of the assumptions? They weren't needed, because, in the end, we were able to make this capital increase, we were able to make this credit expansion, and you can keep the seedlings and you can incorporate the new teachers. So, why did he do all this stuff? So, I..., the only conclusion we come to is that he did them because he wanted to, because the object of this council we understand is to attack the public. He began by trying to detail the quality of public education, with the definite closure of many groups and lines of P3 to the public school and lost the opportunity, without having to increase teaching skills, to lower the rates to increase the quality of education; the first detail we have had this year. We went on with the details, clearly in democracy, because the refusal to debate the Teaching Law with the talk of the totality to the ILP of public education that came to this Parliament backed by 95,000 signatures is also a detail in the debate; a debate to improve, to defend, to protect public education. We continued with more detail on labor rights in May, with the decree this May, and that was pre-emptive to any decision on assumptions. The Government, by decree, decides that the minor will not pay the replacement staff in July, that he will deny the reduction of school hours to senior teachers of fifty-five years and that he will not call for opposition from either primary or secondary schools. So don't let us be surprised by this latest announcement of details that the council made taking advantage of the advent of the non-approval of the assumptions. Finally, we see that all this has had to go back. It does not, therefore, provoke this anguish to the directions, to the educational centers; it does not, because in the end we have to go back. Hello, Counselor? The lack of truth in the raons driving the retail trade and this new attack on the public school have put the entire educational community in little war. They have managed to stand up against the unions, to stand up against the gloom, the directions, the whole of the MUCE, the whole of the Marc Unitari of the Educational Community; they have held demonstrations on the street, they have held joint communications about one hundred and forty public centres, and finally this motion for a resolution which today we jointly presented all the forces of opposition and which we finally managed, with an agreement also with Juntes for the Yes, to present in a way..., an agreement which will unanimously approve the whole Parliament raising public education. Isn't there enough of this line we're proposing right now, with this motion for a resolution that we're going to approve today? We don't think so. We don't think there's enough of this. It is not – it is not – the agreement we want; we continue with groups, with closed P3 lines, and they keep these locks. It's not the deal we wanted. We've said it a lot about the principle, since they started announcing these lockouts already in the pre-registration period: if they're to lock groups for low birth, we should take advantage of it to reduce the concert, the concert, that they're private negotiations, and keep the public school, that's the school of all. Nor do we believe that the endowment they have put in for the fellowships is sufficient. We believe that with the increase that they have put in there will not be enough to cover with the criteria that we are putting in; with these criteria it will not be enough, with the money that they have put in there. But, well, we don't think they're enough. And a topic that came out of all the groups and what we were also trying to talk about in this motion for a resolution and in which we have not finally been able to reach agreement with the government or with Joints for the Yes: the topic of substitutions. We believe that it is essential to cover them from the first day and that from the first of September all the substitutes, like at least all those who have to cover all the places of the course or places from which the territorial services are already aware, is indispensable for the educational community that are covered from the 1st of September. It can't be that on the 12th the students arrive and the masters arrive. It's known that there's always a lot going on, they've always been there and they'll still feel it, but 99 percent of the staff can be there on the 1st, and it's necessary for the educational community that's going to be there. In short, we believe that since the first moment the councilwoman has failed in truth, that she has wanted to instrumentalize the educational community. We believe that the Councilwoman has wanted to impose new details on public education, but we believe that the struggle and defence of rights have prevailed over all this and have forced her to go back, that the pressure has managed to find resources for a substantial part of the demands, and that the fact that today has been approved, that we approve this proposal for a joint resolution for all parliamentary groups, for the recollection of public education is also very important and has been instrumental in making this step back with the details that ended..., which she was announcing. And last but not least, that we have to keep doing it, that this pressure is necessary, because there are still many details that we need to reverse. We must continue to press and seek resources to defend the public school. He will advise, we believe that his daughters will not allow us to end concerts with Opus' elite schools, even though this Parliament approves it, but what we are sure is that we will not allow his fobies to be destroyed in public school, because they are all, because we will defend it in Parliament as we are now doing all the parliamentary groups, but above all – at the side of the educational community, which will always be at its side in all the struggles that I have raised. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.182.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, for the defense of the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si, has the word Ms. Anna Simó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.183.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, vice president, deputies, deputies and people of the MUCH who have accompanied us since dinner time and who I am now here and who have been here about..., you see, every one here has exposed his preferences, his priorities, his fantasies, and so on; we go to the grass, which is what he touches. Very strong things have been said from this Faristol: "You do not believe in public school. You want to boost public school. You're liars. You are an unworthy government. But what's this? But what's this? What are we talking about? We're still a bit serious and strict, too, because if we don't, we're going to get the opposite of what I'm convinced is that everyone in 135, the people who can be looking at us at home and the people of the MUCE who are here and who they represent, who are a quality education service, with the resources they touch and with the percentages of GDP that we all want. Mrs. Sierra, who agrees with all the opposition to do something has nothing to do with being good at entering, cony... – with him– [[relays]] They agreed to veto the debate on certain assumptions – I said ‘with; correct it, please, in the diary of sessions –, to veto the debate on certain assumptions, on certain assumptions that they recognize in their resolution proposal that they were good, because the statement of reasons is all said there..., part of what was incorporated in the Proposition of the Law of Presumption 2016 for which it does to Teaching. But I said that I would go to the grass, so... well, no; one thing, yet: there was also talk of'lie' and'lie' counselor, no; it was talk as if you had a Jewish conxorx to make the professional and the director of the centers serve as hostages. Please! As I put it out loud, when I met with the MUCH, this question and some others, why? What's the point of all this that you say the machine department? Why? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Go, man, go – go, man, go! In an election campaign, Mr Coscubila, feel yourself saying, on the ground, sea and air « retail! Go, man, go – go, man, go! Well, as if we're not questioning Mr. Coscubiela, I'll leave it here. But in any case, we go to the papers, which we have done together for the Yes because the MUCE asked us to be all the parliamentary groups, because the MUCE asked us to get what I think will be ratified today, which is why we did the papers, because the MUCE asked us to do so. Let's go to the exams. The first thought. The first point was: « The Parliament of Catalonia notes that the non-approval of the Project of Law of Presuppositions for 2016 prevents the approval of the Presupposition of Teaching for 2016 and the endowment of 211_million euros that it incorporated respect the presuppositions 2015. This item has not been accepted; obviously it has not been accepted. [[The joker laughs.]] These presuppositions 2016 here are said to be "austericides, continuists, antisocials, benevolent; now, apply them, please, for what it does to Teaching, tell us. The issue number 2, which is the one we have managed to deal with globally, says that the government is transmitting the assumptions necessary to cover the following actions: those that to the direction of the centers were communicated by them. In the direction of the centers– wrongly or not, I think it's good to be transparent–, if I say: "Lords, gentlemen, we have this; if this doesn't get better, that we are now working Teaching and Economy to improve it, we will find ourselves with these plants..., because there has been more new students at the beginning of secondary school. So, as we have to tell you, and fifteen days ago, the communication of seedlings was delayed, we say, "Let's keep working to get it done." And this is what has been done: to keep plants and equipment of the professional adjuncts in order to satisfy the needs of the 16-17 course, which are these 800 teachers; to keep the 400 most professional equipments in the high complexity centers; to cover the needs of the inclusive school program – 360 support and increment techniques of 140 teachers. Certainly, Mrs. Niubó, the decree is pending presuppositional availability. I find it will be, that the department, once there has been a job I think that deep and very interesting with all the actors and agents, say: "Here we have the decree, we will bring it to the School Council of Catalonia, when we can guarantee that it can withdraw. Now there's the guarantee you can take off. I think you're gonna do it that way. I continue; with the permission of Mr. Coscubiela, I continue. And then we added the 12-million question to the scholarships, which wasn't initially there, but we think it's good to follow, because it's money that has been rescued from the 2016 Presumables Bill Project, and so we have... So, rectification report; no, Mrs. Niubó, I don't buy it there and deny the Major. I don't buy it, I don't deny it, I don't buy it, I don't deny the major. Report of human shields, Mr. Coscubala; I do not buy it and deny the Major. Substitution theme. Is there a political will to be able to make the most of the substitutions to the centres? Obviously, because this is causing problems of organization to the centers, brutal, and attention to the centers, brutal. We have approved this in this Parliament, too. Of course I do. To be able to advance the contract of interns before September 12th, man, of course, for what that means. Now, that's an extended assumption, now for now, it can't be done. So, what's the point that we proposed to them and that they wouldn't accept us? The Catalonian Parliament urges the Government to prioritise the better allocation of substitutions in public centres while it is not possible to presuppositively cover all substitutions from the first day – which is not the first day, which is the third day, but we already understand it –; two, to work because it is possible to cover the incidences of course iniciaries as far as possible from the classroom iniciaries, and three, to add new criteria that agile the coverage of substitutions during course 16-17 with the aim of improving student attendance and facilitating the organization of centres and the task of the teachers. This is the political, serious and strict commitment of the Government, which, if approved, would be by writing approved in this Parliament. Well, and voted for Junts for the Yes. Because now you see the other question. And I would like to point out that they have made the claim of a full-fledged paper vote in this Parliament, even if it is unanimous. And I say "no; all that together for the Yes, negotiates and votes in this Parliament is compromised to the cent_per_cent of the Government of the Generality, as it could not be in any other way, because we believe in this Parliament and because covenant is served [[applause]] , pacta são servanda, and if you vote here a motion for a resolution or a motion, it is executed – the motion, obviously. [[Rialles.]] Anyway, like we've come to an agreement and I want to thank everyone, but especially the people of the MUCH, their time, because that's the way it is, so I'll leave it here. The vote will be taken separately from the point e. And I want to say one last question. With a motion for a resolution or without a motion for a resolution, the government will push ahead with what has been bought at the centres, and the rest, that each person qualifies it as he or she wants. I could call it many ways, but I won't... I won't. And if they want, then, in the question that will be made to the Vice-President and Councillor of Economy, that is the only Councillor of Economy that there is in this Chamber and in this Government now, and that there are many people who have ideas to improve the presuppositional management, so, if they want, there will be the prose, there will be rigour, there will be the seriousness of what can be done and what cannot be done – because, if they want, they will – for the public education of this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.184.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Subsequently, according to Rule 165.2 of the Rules, the proposed parliamentary groups have a final two-minute turn to indicate the text they put to the vote and the documents they accept. There's the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.185.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. And the LGTBI collection, which celebrated its proud day yesterday, would be very pleased to know that the laws of this Parliament apply, because I believe they are waiting even though it has begun to apply what was approved in the previous legislature. For what it already does to this joint motion for a resolution, in the first place, we have said it already, but I want it to be very clear that this motion for a resolution is a motion from the MUCH, with which we feel a little bit about it..., that we have to be aware of the decisions that they make for what they do to the papers; points that, as has already been said, have been literally negotiated until the last moment, today at dinar time. I must thank and appreciate the work of Mrs. Anna Simó, not only with this motion for a resolution, because she has worked hard and tried to reach agreement, and it is not the first time she does so, and, from the ideological discrepancy that it is obvious that she separates us, so her effort must be recognized to try to reach agreement. I've already said that this is a minimum proposition. I have said this and have already said it, too, the companies that have intervened, because what it is about is not to continue dismantling public education, which is found in the highest levels of precariousness after the governments of Convergence and Union and now of Together for Yes. When we talk to the faculty about anxiety, they talk about dismotivation because of the circumstances in which they are working. Today, Mrs. Pascal spoke of the importance of teaching, sommes, miri, works are love and not good intentions. It does me the effect that they don't talk very much to the faculty, possibly because when we are having joint meetings – that we haven't done many in the last few days–, there are never any Joints for Yes at these meetings..., forgive me, Convergence. There are people from Junts for the Yes, but not from Convergence. And I'm saying that it does me the effect that, Marta Pascal, who is from Convergence, apart from Juntes for the Yes, I don't answer this information that we get from the other groups, from the anxiety of the teacher for the conditions in which he is working, and as the teacher... – and it's not what I say, all the companies that have spoken before have said it – as the teacher with the iron that today deals with us, he felt misled, felt used and felt that he was making use of a little like... well, yes, he almost excused himself to start an electoral campaign, and, in concrete terms, against a party, but against all opposition. For what Mrs Simó has said, it is not always good to agree, and she has set an example of the assumptions. Sorry, we didn't agree to vote against the assumptions, did we? Each group decided it for the sun. The thing that happens that you only wanted the approval of the UPC and with the rest did not speak. As I said, the exams that have been accepted or ceased to be accepted...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.186.0	Mrs. Sierra, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.187.0	... that Mrs. Anna Simó has already commented on this, they have been the ones who have decided by MUCH that they would accept each other or that they would no longer accept it, because we have always respected their will, because, as I said, this motion for a resolution is theirs. We will continue to work to remove public education from current precarious levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.188.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The debate is over, so let's proceed to the vote. We're calling it a vote. Let us, therefore, proceed to the vote of the Motion for a resolution on educational needs for the 2016-2107 course, with the incorporation of the negotiated issues. [[Pause. Marta Rovira and Vergés ask to speak.]] Mrs. Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.189.0	To ask for a separate vote from point 1.e. [[Pause.]] Yeah? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.190.0	If it seems to them, we will vote first on the point and then on the rest of the motion. Does it look okay to you? [[Pause.]] Okay? [[Pause.]] So, anyway, now we're going to vote the point. The vote begins. It was approved by 71 votes to 62, with no abstentions. Next, we will vote on the rest of the resolution. The vote begins. It was adopted by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Condol and condemnation demonstration for the homophobic storm of June 12 in Orlando, United States of America]] On behalf of the Parliament of Catalonia, I would like to greet the representatives of the LGTBI collection who are accompanying us today. As I announced this morning, we will make a minute of silence on account of the homophobic storm that took place last June 12th in Orlando, in which fifty people died. With this minute of silence, the Parliament of Catalonia condemns those facts and expresses its solidarity with the LGTBI collection, with the city of Orlando and with the people of the United States of America, and, at the same time, confirms the institution's commitment to peace, human rights and civil liberties. You have, in particular, freedom of orientation and of emotional and sexual identity. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]] [[Question to the Government on the planned initiatives before the withdrawal of the draft law of assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for 2016 and of the draft law of fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures]] [[300-00066/11]] The sixth item on the agenda is the question to the Government about the planned initiatives before the withdrawal of the draft law of assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for 2016 and of the draft law of fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. To expose her, has the word Mr. Joan Coscubiela. [[Widow's remorse.]] And, as always, we ask the deputies and deputies to leave as quickly as possible in order to continue the session. Thank you. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.191.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice President, at the end of the day, the government suffered a severe political defeat and you recognized it, even though you then tried to build it up. He saw how the Parliament was returning the first assumptions of this legislature, proved that there was no stable parliamentary majority to govern, and that only passed five months after the constitution of the government. Before this complete defeat, the government reacted in the worst possible way: by raising smoke curtains and handing out blame to everyone, the policy of squid ink. But what is more denied, what is harder, I say again, the government's reaction has been to try to use citizens as hostages, as human shields, as weapons against the rest of the groups of this chamber, and, especially, against those you consider, therefore, the most dangerous: Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the CUP. From the very first moment, the government, in dealing with the assumptions – as we said, we repeat it – has acted with great political fear. To present assumptions without having guaranteed votes to approve them; to refuse to discuss them with all parliamentary groups, except with the CUP, is an option, but has its consequences; to maintain ostentatious public discrepancies between the president and the vice president about what should be done, for example, with the issue of the IRPF's autonomous tram. All this accumulated and when it turns out that the papers are approved to the totality and you are obliged to withdraw the assumptions and after the Law of fiscal measures, it turns out that the guilt and responsibility is for the rest of the world and not for an incompetent government that is not able to get its first assumptions approved. You've tried to cover it up... some of you have decided that the best defense was a good attack. That's very classic. We have decided to cover all of us with an alloy, again to tell him, of lies and falsehoods that continue today, the singing of anything that is said to him: "If you have approved the assumptions... there is nothing to do. They always go on systemically. Finally, today we have been able to hear that the situation of abusive taxes on the university system turns out that it is because priority must be given to the zero-three-year stage. And they said so, without changing, with this tranquillity that gives the fact of being repeatedly barbarized like these. For what we have seen..., for what we have seen today it seems that what seemed to be a purely natural election question, motivated by June 26th, can be converted into his repeated speech for all that remains of the legislature, and I must say to you, Mr Vice President, another time than this – this layout – to say that you cannot make certain things because you are not approved of the assumptions, with these terms of radicality, of universality, is absolutely false. I'm not telling you – obviously, I can't tell you, it wouldn't be strict – that approving assumptions or not approving them is exactly the same; for example, inversion parties cannot be the same. I don't know if anything is going on, because, of course, with the investments that you predicted with the premise of this year, the truth is that the lower – the lower – the more you can no longer be. But you insisted on this issue, but you didn't have any kind of scruple... – I told the Teaching Councillor before, but today I want to repeat it to the government's side – you didn't have this kind of scruple trying to use and encourage social sectors to preserve their political incompetence. You've done it with the educated world, you've done it with the health world, you've done it with the social entities, to which you two have assumed parties... you have money and you pretend to do it... you pretend to explain that it's the opposition groups' fault, that we haven't approved the assumptions. For weeks we have seen that you have not had any kind of scruple in this sense. And we told them at the time: pose a question of trust as a reaction to the political defeat that you have suffered..., it is absolutely legitimate, and so we recognized it. Now, using citizens as hostages, as human listeners to cover up their own responsibilities and try to get out of this political agenda, it's not. A while ago friend Anna Simó said: "This seems like a Jewish-Christian conspiracy, I don't know what we can claim. So I can explain it: in fact, he explained it very clearly TV3 for two or three days, TV3 and Catalunya Radio, they explained the image of Parliament... So it turns out: "The educational community sneezes the CUP and Catalonia Yes, it is possible for not having approved the assumptions. What do they mean? Very clear: to us, to stay for the 26th of June and to the UPC to stay for the confidence motion..., for the confidence question. Well, that's not good. It's not all possible. I said it before: I think it's behavior... I didn't say it's an unworthy government, I said it's one of the most unworthy moments of Catalan politics. I think it's unworthy behavior, not all of it, from this point of view. How unworthy, for example, to explain it to some social entities, concretely to the special work centres, which bear a burden with the collection of earthquakes, that the fault is also ours. And when they demand this payment, the special work center, it turns out that a deputy director sends them a letter saying: "No, if you can do one thing: ask for a credit to this entity that will give them 5.75_per_cent. With resources that, moreover, come from the sectoral conference in Madrid and that you may not have refused, but which you have guaranteed, from this point of view. For example, there are not many, from this point of view. And then this inquiry seeks to give you an opportunity, Mr. Vice President, which you clearly tell us what you intend to do before the situation of non-approval of the assumptions. You say it's our fault, I think it's the government's responsibility, always. But in any case, the dilemma is another: what do you plan to do during these six months that remain to ensure certain situations? I can make some progress. You know that... – we told you at the time and I'm going to tell you now – you know that you have at your disposal, with the 2015 Law of Presuppositions, extended today, and with the Catalonia Law of Public Finance, you have presuppositionary mechanisms to face this situation, not fully, but to face it. And every time you bring us a proposal that seems fair to us, we will approve it. Actually, it's not because you have mechanisms. Many of the things that can be done, from the point of view of modification of credits, are expandable credits or simply transfer of credits between parties. It's not that you can do it, it's that you've already done it. During the four_months of 2016, you have made transfers of credit per import of 400_million euros, which you have allocated..., of one place..., you had to, with a presupposition of 2015 extended, spend on one thing and you have allocated it to another. But it's more like you do it all the years; governments do it all the years. I've told them a few times. 2015 was closed with a settlement of 4,025_million euros higher than the initial assumption. And how was that possible? So, well, using the presuppositional modification mechanisms that you provide for the law. And you can do it. Miri, you can do it... as obvious as you know 2015 wasn't Any Ramon Llull, right? It wasn't, was it? Then it came in 2016, there was no presupposition game to be able to do so, and you have set them up to transfer 600,000_euros from other parties to Any Ramon Llull. Well, we can agree or disagree with these things – it doesn't seem like we really want to go to Havana to do concerts to celebrate the Any Ramon Llull, I can tell you that it's a part of this €600,000, but this is a topic that we can discuss at another time – but you haven't found it. So, well, they haven't found it, and it turns out they haven't found it, for example, until a while ago, on the subject of educational teaching needs or to address some questions of social emergence. You, if you have the tickets – that you say yes, because they come from the increase in transfers from the State, from the best; that they come from the best of the resources that are good, from the taxes that are given and good; that they come from the estrangement of half of the interests expected for the debt of the year 2015 – you can use all these parties to transfer credit;, if you have them, that much I am afraid that you explained to us that you had much to do not know what and even if it is already spent, that this would be another hypothesis, and now you want to hold us responsible. Well, worry about your going on. Today, Councillor Comín just said, he said this morning that he cannot do the internal promotion of a thousand members of the Catalan Institute of Health, why? , because of the non-approval of the assumptions. Look, I might be wrong, huh? But I read the Presumptive Prorogation Decree of last year's dismemberment and I read a resolution approved by the Government, which you sent to all members of the Government on June 15th, specifying the procedure they have to do the internal promotion competitions, and telling them that they must use a bold additional provision of the 2015 Presumptive Law. If that's the case, explain it to you, please, to Mr. Comin, why don't you do it to us too..., give us the guilt that the internal promotion in the Generality is blocking itself at this time. Well, it's not legitimate what you're doing, it's not legitimate to explain that you can't play the game. The shock plan could have started to apply you from the '1 of generation of 2016, which happens that you used it as a pressure element in your negotiations with the CUP and now you use it as a pressure and complaint element with all of us. It can't be; your political responsibility is yours, not yours. From this point of view, the place you tell us what you intend to do, which is the policy of the government, presuppositional, during these remaining six months. And I just asked him to answer a question, too. You decided to withdraw the Tax Measures Act before it could be discussed. There was some possibility there to make some discussion; for example, you know that we offer you more tax resources for 2017, by way of the IRPF's autonomous tram, by way of inheritance and donation tax and by way of the assets tax, and by way of the green tax. This is a possibility, which we are willing to discuss. We would also like to know your opinion on this question, do not know that you are willing to seek resources from there if you know that you will not drag them, because you will never be able to execute them because you are declared null by the Constitutional Court – you will be able to put them, but there will be no euro of revenue – and, in any case, you will not want to do so in relation to those things in which you can get resources because you touch the interests of your powerful, powerful people in this country. Well, this is the layout of this inquiry that we want to do. And we would ask you, if you please, Mr. Vice President, that, if possible, between your abilities and your instructions, ask the rest of the members of the government who stop lying in the matter of supposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.192.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.193.0	Good afternoon to everyone. Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Coscubiela, before I explain to you what are the limitations in a situation of extension, let me begin with some statements that I would rather not have to do but I feel obliged to do so. You, along with your interventions, have repeatedly qualified this inquiry and above all the previous intervention, have ensured that the members of the government lie, that they say falsehoods, that they stare in unworthy moments. Mr. Coscubala, here who is the protagonist of unworthy moments is you. You are the protagonist of unworthy moments. You're lying. You say falsehoods. And, plus, he says it over and over again. And it uses concepts that are embarrassing, from my point of view, in this chamber. You say the government uses citizens as hostages, as human ears. No, you're a disgrace, which means you're not ashamed. [[Some applause and remorse of voices.]] I suppose I have... I'm in use of the word. Yeah? And they don't know how hard it is? [[Pause.]] Perfect. All right. Clear... [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, if you insist, I can shut up again until you shut up and then I'll start again. [[Pause.]] All right. Made this previous finding, which I feel bound by a question of truth, why, I insist, huh? It seems to me that your interventions are profoundly unworthy, I try to clarify some of the questions that you raised and reiterated, with true myths, with honest falsehoods, with straightforward lies, in all possible versions. First of the acclamations. The extension is configured in the presupposition regulation as an exceptional – exceptional – situation; therefore, underlies the execution of the presupposition to various restrictions. The most important of these restrictions is that total expenditure credits cannot exceed those of the previous exercise. Therefore, the first limitation, the total of the credits, the total of the disposition, cannot exceed that of the previous exercise. Therefore, there are limitations; however much you say there are no limitations, there are none. The first is this one. The reason for this limitation is that the Parliament can authorize, it is the Parliament which authorizes the Government to make the total expenditure. And the last authorization this Parliament gave to some government was that of the 2015 assumptions. Therefore, in rejecting the 2016 Presumables Bill Project, the limit is 2015. Therefore, it is not true that there is no limit; there is a limit, which is that of 2015. I'm going to cry. The extension also carries other limits. For example, they can't extend – they can't extend – much so that you say they can, much so that you say they can... – because they are specialists to say that they can, for example, lose more than 1_million votes; okay. But you say, "There is no limit to it. And I say to him: "Yes; you can't extend the programs or investments that end in the previous exercise, you can't extend, you can't. As much as you say ‘it is possible to extend,'there is no limit, etc., that it is clear: it is not possible to extend the programmes or investments that ended in the previous year; therefore, in the 2015 programme. They can't. [[Widow's remorse.]] Let's keep it going. I heard that I've endured you telling us to lie, to lie, to be unworthy... so now you're holding on to my intervention, and if I interrupt again, I'll shut up again and wait for you to shut up. [[Pause.]] You make reference, without mentioning it, to article 42 of the Law on Public Finance, which makes reference to the presuppositional modifications. Article 42 says that it allows for presuppositional changes, but also – and this is true – and that is a high point that you never say, that you don't remember or that you don't know – you also say that, in a situation of extension, you extend the initial credits – Article 33 – and, like all expenditure credits, you have a limited amount – Article 35 – that is to say, they operate as a maximum limit of expenditure, not as a forecast of expenditure. Therefore, the presuppositional change in prorogation is much more complex – much more complex – than without prorogation. More limitations, which affect us in this case. With the state legislation on fiscal stabilization approved in 2012 and the subsequent standards that develop it, the Ministry of Hisenda has control over Catalonia's finances. This includes that monthly the ministry, therefore, Mr. Montoro, proves that it is completed with the deficit objective, monthly; a deficit objective unilaterally decided for the same ministry, in this case, for Mr. Montoro. Without a law of assumptions, which is the situation in which we are, without an approved law of assumptions, before making any transfer, before making any change of belief that allows for an increase in expenditure in any area, all the limitations that I said a while ago, before I could do that, would justify the completion of the assigned deficit. So, what's going on in this situation of prorogation? That it is not a situation of prorogate any: it is not that we are about to approve some assumptions that came together to the previous assumptions and therefore the difference between the approval of the new assumption and the extension of the previous one was minimal, no, no; we were ahead of some expanded assumptions in more than 1,100_million more strides of spending in the joint departments. Therefore, it does not come together in relation to an extension in which it replaces assumptions similar to the previous one, because they were totally different. Who's happier with this situation? Mr. Montoro. The government is working to be able to transfer as much as possible, and it seems to me that the decisions that have been taken here today have been voted, in the previous intervention, that they were the ones that were compromised by the department – that they were the ones that were compromised by the department –, show that the government, said, is doing as much as possible to transfer parties and to take advantage of the student of interests and major entries provided for in the 2016 assumptions, but taking into account all previous limitations. So, the government, what is it doing? It guarantees that it will keep the services and that there will be no new details or adjustments, but the Government has to explain – because it is its obligation, and because it is so, and because we do not have legal mechanisms to do so in any other way – that the best of the assumptions are subject to the fact that, in the first place, it is satisfied with these objectives of impairment, because, if not, the credit, as we do not have it, not above; it is not in a range of the Economy and History Board, Mr. Coscubila. I insist, a floor of deficit, a limit of deficit decided unilaterally for the ministry, that it is who controls whether or not the assignment planned each month. Finally, while the government can approve transfers – and does – and even present to Parliament a bill of law – it can present it –, as long as the extension has an exceptional character and cannot replace the parliamentary processing of the Law of Presuppositions, since this would represent a law fraud and would represent a fraud in the Rules of Parliament, adopting assumptions for the back door..., because if we can do that, how many governments would have the tempt to do it always and never approve any assumptions, because we can do it for this other way, and that is why it cannot be done, and so when the Basque Government tried to do it in 2002 it ended up falling and nullifying it. That's why we can't pass some abis assumptions, for the back door, because it's simply illegal, and when there's an attempt to do it – the predecessor of the Basque Government in 2002 – it's over. So, who are the government's actions at this time and will continue to feel in the proper months? At these times, what we are doing is gathering together with all the departments to assess the available margins of the extension, which are the ones that are needed to meet the expenditure that is going to take place over the course of 2016; we are doing everything possible to meet the expenses provided for in the draft assumptions of 16, even though they are not approved, we are doing everything possible; we are trying to give coverage to the needs of the most urgent social expenses, as can be the teaching needs for the course, as approved a moment ago, as Mrs Anna Simó explained, for the course 2016-2017, or, for example, another example different from what she refers to the new vaccines of the vaccination calendar, and it seems that there are two clear examples. Furthermore, guarantee, on the one hand, the return of the 2012 payment. You know that this, in addition, is granted to the unions and, therefore, is proceeding to do so. And, finally, that in a situation of extension it must be made clear that no new projects can be drawn up, but that it will do everything possible to guarantee the level of service and of its quality. And this means that if the demand increases – for example, students in secondary education, to give an example – we will increase the resources for giving the same services with the same quality and guarantees. I hope it's made clear, and if not, I'm sure I'll have a chance to make it clear. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.194.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Next, has the word Mr. Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.195.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice President, I've noticed a little nervous; it must be that you're not used to being told the truth. And I let him tell him that I insist: a moment ago we just saw the debate about education. When the Education Advisor gives instructions to her territorial delegates to meet with the Institute's directors and tell them that she can't fulfill her commitments to them because it turns out she can't do it because the 2016 assumptions haven't been approved, that's a lie. Someone qualified him before he didn't tell the truth. It's the same, use the euphemism you want. I'm still waiting for you to tell me what the lie I said today is, and if you tell me, I'll apologize. Leave 'but insist on a question: you know you have some instruments in your abst. I said, from the first moment, that it's not the same, sense of doubt, have some assumptions that it isn't. I have acknowledged, for example, that the issue of investment parties is not possible to do so. I now recognize that those programs that are motivated are generated only in relation to one year cannot be extended. But I'm telling you, then, that you have at your bottom not only extendable credit mechanisms, for example, in sanitation. The explanation you have given, for example, in relation to waiting lists, is false. Because, in the end, you can reduce waiting lists from providing resources because that can be done. In fact, I would like to remind you that the 2015 budget was close to 1,900_million euros more than had been approved. And how did he do that? Through expandable credits and credit transfers. I told you again, and you didn't deny it, that in the first four months of the year there have already been transfers of credence from one party to the other, and I have set the example of the Any Llull. That means they can do things. And to say this is not to say lies, it's just to say that you can't continue accusing the joint opposition of all the problems going on in this country and of the incompetence of your government. That's what I think he doesn't like to listen to, but someone should tell him, and I don't think the Joan Tardà is the Joan Coscubiela. [[Widow's remorse.]] The expenditure limit..., it is true that the expenditure limit cannot be extended, with one exception, and is that you can believe that in 2015 you have higher expected tickets than they were expected in the 2015 budget. And you told us that this is what you have, because you have 1,400_millions, I think I remember, of a million of the 2014 beast, that in the end the Spanish State returns to us, that it has planned higher receipts as a consequence of the better of the taxes that are good and given, and that only half of the interests of the debt that are provided for in the 2015 assumption will be spent. That's just, I think, EUR 863 million, which can go beyond Chapter 3, huh? –interested– to be distributed– 800 only, that, huh? – by different parties. It's like you've got a lot of, many possibilities to do it. And there are things that are true that can't be done with this, and then they require extraordinary credits, for which you provide for the article of the Public Finance Law of the Generality that you cited, and which you require – that they require – that the Government bring to Parliament an extraordinary law of approval of credit. So, well, I'm saying it now: everything you say that can't be done with the change orders of credence and just socially, bring it here, with this law – if it can be, talk to it before, don't be so select at the time to talk to groups, I know we don't like it, but try to talk to everyone – and then we, sure, sure, if it has a social content, we will approve it. Now, we don't get for the middle, for example, the delegation to the Vatican, because if we stay at the middle of the best care or the best social services of the delegation to the Vatican and put it in the same law, then we can't approve it or we'll have to approve it only partially. The truth is, you came up with an explanation for why you're so negated, while you were talking... because you're a man who's gonna be and normally isn't nervous; really, I've seen him very nervous, huh? I know that you were not acting, today, you were very nervous, and I think I know why you were so nervous, because it is clear that you are saying at the same time that you are on a DUI – a DUI –, a disconnection, I don't know what to do, then, saying: "You can't see that I can't do anything, that the Montoro has bound me with hands, that every day, every week you control me? Say this, one time after the other, without you being red, so you have to be very hard and nervous. Certainly, you may have attacked Mr. Montoro for presuppositional limitations, with which it seems that you are very fond and, at last, with a certain empathy and complicity from the point of view. He did not want to use the argument to blame the opposition groups for the political incompetence of a government that was unable to approve its first assumptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.196.0	Thank you, Congressman. The vice president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.197.0	Let's go back to it. Good afternoon, another time, everybody. You just said that you saw me very nervous; very, very nervous, and very negated, and that your group is not looking for me. Mr. Coscubiela, your group is very nice to me; this does not mean that you are a cynic. [[Some applause.]] Let's go back to it, you say, "Yes, you can do things. Yes, we can do things, but with some limitations I've explained, and some of these limitations are very severe. And you can deny that there are these limitations another time, but there are. For example, the expenditure limits provided for in the previous exercise cannot be exceeded; they cannot be exceeded. Therefore, you say: 'Bring some proposal here. Mr. Coscubiela, the problem is that to which we have brought a proposed medium or medium we have already skipped the spending limit of the previous exercise, because it is obvious that the spending limit of the previous exercise was much higher. You say, "But last year they were able to make some expansions of... But precisely, because there was a law and law, among other things, protected us from the control exercised by the ministry, yes. And you say: "And you want to make independence. Yes, of course, among other things – among other things, among other things... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let's talk, I always... I let him talk. Among other things, precisely, in order not to be subject to these limitations, because who collects 95_percent of the taxes paid by the citizens of Catalonia is, precisely, the State; and, therefore, who has these resources, at this time, is the State. And the presuppositional stabilization law that establishes is that, month by month, it controls the compliment of the dam. And as the Deficit Floor unilaterally decides Mr. Montoro, precisely because of this, we are very limited in the use of these resources that you say they do exist, indeed. And I'll explain that we're limited because we can't get past the expense floor of the previous exercise, because we can't deviate from the deficit floor that, at these times, controls the ministry, precisely, among other things, with much more effectiveness, because there's no law of assumptions that we're getting. Therefore, these limitations exist. Ah, and that, in particular, can we make any decision to extend a concrete credit? Yeah, but it's the one we're about to make this decision that we won't be able to take any more, because we'll be past the 2015 expense stop. I don't think it costs that much to hear this. That is to say, you say: "Well, you can buy a pome. Yeah. And then he says: "They can also buy a pear. Okay, we can buy a apple or a pear, but we can't buy a apple and a pear. It's here. So, of course, you can look very good, come out here and say, "Don't worry, whatever proposal we make us approve of. Okay, but when I've told two or three more sectors, it's over. So, tell the truth one time, I stopped selling smoke. I don't come out here and expective gifts that can't be completed later. Because the good you act in bad faith, come expectations that do not exist, or you are not aware of who are the limitations, although we try to explain it to you. And I explained it to him, I mentioned the concrete articles to him, I explained the concrete limitations to him, I gave him concrete examples, and you come out again – every time he comes out because each plenary makes an intervention of this type – and he tells us: "It's that he never answers us, it's that he doesn't explain anything to us. Yes, what's going on is that you don't feel it, or that you don't want to hear it, or that you prefer to see that you don't, or that you prefer to see that you don't understand it or that you don't know it, because that allows you to continue explaining your smoking plans. So, listen, no; there are some limitations and these limitations we can't skip at this time; that's exactly why we want to have all the tools, so we're not under those limitations. And if you have so much ability to convince Mr. Montoro, escorts, your company with representation in the Congress of Deputies will surely convince him to modify the Presuppositional Act of 2012, or perhaps you will convince him. Perfect. And we will applaud him and the people of Catalonia will surely be pleased with him and I will be the first of all. Therefore, listen without any type of limitation; convince him, it is already. And in any case, we take into account who these limitations are. There are things that can be done, yes; what happens is that they can't all be done. And, above all, we can't all do it now, because – I insist, for the third or fourth time already – we can't go beyond the limit of 2015, because we can't deviate from the floor of the deficit, because, if not, resources don't arrive. I can compromise them, but if they don't exist later, if we can't transfer them later, if we can't pay them later, what would it be for – what would it be for? Therefore, we will not do it, Mr. Coscubiela; however much you insist on it, we will not do it. We'll do what we can do the best we can, and we're convinced that, despite everything, despite all your insistence on explaining things that aren't, most people understand us. I'm escorted to the fets in return. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.198.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.199.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice President, I am convinced that you have used the term « cynical claim that I am a leaven of Diogenes, which I am proud of. I don't have a problem. At all events, let me remind you of one thing: the Law of Presuppositional Enabling, which both you and the tea offered, approved it by the president's party that stands beside all the plenary and the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.200.0	Vice President?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.201.0	All my sympathy for Diogenes and the cynical school, but when I qualified you as cynical I did not do it with reference to the philosophical school founded by Diogenes. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.202.0	The next item is the question to the Government about the Catalonia Tax Agency, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Question to the Government on the Tax Agency of Catalonia]] [[300-00067/11]] To expose her, has the word the lady Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.203.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Vice President, I hope you're a little more relaxed and I don't make you as nervous as Mr. Coscubiela did, because, if you don't, I don't know if it's gonna end well. He also wanted to greet the secretary of Hisenda and the secretary of the department, and also the representatives of the workers of the liquidating offices, who today wanted to accompany us in the presentation of this inquiry. Okay. The Socialist Group wants to ask them today to talk about the future of the Tax Agency of Catalonia, which, as you can imagine, is therefore a very important issue for the Government, but obviously, therefore, also for us and the country. The agency that was created, you know very well, with Law 7/2007 of 17 July, giving compliment to Article 204 of the Statute, which asked, therefore, to develop a law to create this agency. Therefore, this country structure was created to develop, therefore, the functions of management, recapturing, inspection, liquidation of taxes that are appropriate to the Generality, of those transferred for the State and of all those entrusted to it at the time. As you well know, from what has been made government, you, therefore, have established as one of your objectives and priorities to create state structures. And from these structures of state, therefore, it is not possible to escape that the agency would probably be the most important, and I am not just saying this, but to analyze and read the report that the Council Counsellor made for the National Transition on the administration of the Catalan heritage, so I already said that "it is not possible..., said exactly – I read – "It is not possible to become a state without the ability to manage the taxes that the citizens pay. And, therefore, it seems to me that, therefore, it is clear that this is the most important state structure that probably needs to be developed if it is to be an independent state. We could share it up to this independent state, because we believe that it is a tax agency, a very powerful herd; we would want it federated, but, well, that is not the subject of today's debate; but, in any case, it is an objective that in some way, therefore, we could share with you. Now, we don't share the shapes, how, the content of how this agency deployment is developing, this future. And I'm gonna go in a little bit deeper. Miri, Mr. Junqueras, you made an appearance on the 8th of February to the Economic Commission in which, therefore, you raised a little which was the full route of your department. In this committee, in relation to the tax agency, he said two things that he would like to highlight. He said: "We need to deploy the tax agency in two lines. One, stretch out to the maximum those skills that allow us and that we already have from the autonomic point of view, right? In other words, to extend the autonomous recourse to the maximum extent, and this means to recover those functions that we have delegated at the time to the Spanish tax agency, is to say, all the executive tasks that they do, and also to recover the functions that the liquidating offices do, which are basically, therefore, managed, recapturing, inspecting the inheritance tax, heritage transmissions and documentary legal acts. And he said, second of all, therefore: "Obviously, to deploy the tax agency through laws, the expansion of human resources, the information systems, therefore, everything that you allow in a future – you did not concretely – that we can manage all the taxes that are collected in Catalonia. These were the two announcements you made, and, as I said, we could share them. For what he does to the first, it is to say, to extend the autonomous appeal to the maximum, as you say, we can share it; even so, when we did the Law of Tax Accords in the previous legislature the Socialist Group presented an issue in this line, right? In the fact of being able to recover, therefore, these tasks that make other organizations that is not the tax agency. And in this sense, you, for this reason, when we talk about this subject we think that the argument of efficiency is widely used, right? , in the sense of saying: "We will save ourselves some costs, for what it does to the executive, for what it does to the State, 10_million euros; for what it does to the liquidating offices, about 25_million euros. As if we're getting away with this, and it's already, when, obviously, if we charge a third party a few tasks, we have to pay them, and if we internalize them, and if we do them from the agency, it's going to cost you money, infrastructure, training... Therefore, no one escapes that if this is done by us now, it will also have a cost. So, look, sometimes, too, with using the account a little bit of the old one, right? Because obviously it's in absolute numbers, so it's not going to happen at all. But, well, as I said, you said to make this announcement... – we, therefore, have pointed this out to ourselves, it is a very important issue – but where all the warnings were awakened is when we read in various communication media the Secretary of Hisenda, Mr. Lluís Salvadó, who, as I said, greeted and today accompanied us, with his interest in assuming the delegated functions of the Spanish tax agency and the liquidating offices in a short time. And he said and added, moreover, that the summer of 2017 is already able to collect all taxes through the tax agency. Therefore, here, therefore, say 'pouga' or 'instemorous', but that is where we are concerned. Because you don't have to donate data, but the secretary of Hysenda did donate it. He said: "In short, we will recover these functions and, moreover, before the summer of 2017 we will be able to manage all the taxes that are collected in Catalonia. The eyes, honestly, like taronges, us. I'll go pam to pam so we can hear him calmly. The executive functions of the Spanish tax agency, which develops the agency, we have recovered them. If I don't get it wrong, we've developed or completed a forty-seat selection process that should be done in these pockets. Of the only forty were approved, say, they passed the tests, difficult – and they have to be difficult, because the pocket is complex –, 13 people; of the 13, 11 they joined, and there were 29 seats left to cover. These 29 have ended up in a much more all-round selection process. And we say, "Ull, because here we need better. And let's not say those who have entered, these 29 don't follow, but they keep the best professionals with a good selection, right? And if the 11 go in with one mechanism, the other 29 go in with another, so it doesn't seem to be the strictest. Okay. This is already covered at the tax agency and I hope that in short, so you can explain how this is going. Liquidating offices. Mr. Salvadó, in the media – and I have some interviews here with companies so they won't tell me I made it up – says: "We will denounce the agreement with the liquidating offices on June-July of this year and in the new months, so the tax agency will already have to develop these functions. We have asked for Mr. Saved's appearance, which I hope the average, if there is a Committee on the Economy, can be approved, and we have asked the Government why, as you can imagine, we are very concerned about this issue. We're worried about two lines. U, because the liquidating offices work three hundred people spread over fifty-three offices throughout the Catalan territory; that is to say, a decentralized model, close to the city, which I believe is a model that we can even share for the new country. Okay. Three hundred workers, three hundred trained, prepared people, who are continuously training to adapt, therefore, to the new tax regulations, people who thirty years ago collaborate with the tax agency, who work with the Gaudí program, that somehow we could say that they feel Generalitat de Catalunya, right? Listen'm, the liquidating offices make an obviously very important pocket for what they do, therefore, to the recap, manage and inspect the taxes. I'll probably talk more about this later on in the second intervention. But in any case, there are three hundred places of work that concern us if you take on these functions. But then we're not just worried about this, we're worried that this job that these people and these offices are doing is going to happen because, obviously, I don't think we're still able to incorporate three hundred people into the tax agency unless it's the ones that come from the liquidating offices. And, therefore, here we give them first, or, please, do not denounce the agreement on June and July, and two – and two –, escort me, before denouncing the agreement, have a plan of how these skills are assumed, what do we do with these workers, if they are to be incorporated, if they are to be subrogated, if the offices are to become part of the agency... That is to say, establish a credible, rigorous, peaceful, not only the workers, I repeat, but also the same Catalan tax system, because here there are some tickets that we have because we can lose. And I think the generality isn't about to lose tickets. Therefore, this seems very important to us. Then explain it to Parliament. We asked for Mr. Saved's appearance, but he or the same vice president could also have come to explain it. Also, explain to the local world, that you are denied because you have to lose some offices that give a service to your people. And four: dialogue and negotiate with agency workers. Today – today – June 29, no one – no one – has officially told the workers of the liquidation offices that you want to denounce the agreement – no one. All they know is about the media. So, do you know the uncertainty and anxiety that this generates for three hundred people? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, that's it, and they're here, so... well, they can deny me themselves, can't they? If I'm not telling the truth. So what we would like is that before we do things we know where we should go, that we know that they are going to be good and that we are talking about people and that, therefore, we must have, we believe, a certain respect for them but also for their work, because probably the workers, because of their knowledge, right? , and for his experience, therefore, they can contribute a lot to this assumption of competences that at these times he wants to take over the tax agency in relation to the work done by the liquidating offices. Therefore, we would ask them not to suspend, not to denounce this arrangement, to work before they have a strict, serious plan to assume these powers and to do so jointly with these workers and with these offices. There is one part that I am very concerned about, that is the future of the agency and this announcement that the summer of 2017 we will already collect all taxes, but the leave for the second part because it seems important to me and I would like to, therefore, to be able to hide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.204.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.205.0	Good afternoon to everyone, another time. Thank you, President. Mrs. Romero, you understand your concern I'm trying to answer your questions. As you and everyone knows perfectly well, one of the objectives of the Department of Economics and History is to be prepared to take over all the taxes that are paid to our country. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, that's it. This is our will. It is an objective that I understand that we can share many people that we are here, many, all those that we believe in the co-responsibility of territorial administrations in fiscal matters, in recaptancy matters, in expenditure matters, etc. In fact, who has most contributed to the Government of Catalonia in the matter of tax collection, or one of the people who has most contributed to it, was the councillor Antoni Castells – who is part, I understand, of the Socialist Party – who was the creator of the Catalonia Tax Agency in 2008. Our intention is to do what he explained and profited in order to recover some of his interventions in these... in his parliamentary office, huh? – and it seems to me that I quote it textually – some interventions that you have made in this Parliament. You said: "Coldria remember that the Tax Agency of Catalonia created the year 2007. The law established different functions and different skills and tasks that the same agency had. Some of them have not developed in these eight years, for example: the program contract between the Department of Economy and the same agency, the modernization of computer systems, a growing deployment of the personal property, the fight against tax fraud, executive recapturing... And add... things, all of them, which we totally agree with, huh? – and later adds: "A new territorial model of the agency that allows the government to take over its skills for the task of developing the liquidating offices of the property registrars. It seems to me that it is important– you said, "I follow," that the Agency does, can do, the skills that at this time already have – already has – to the law and, obviously, then, do not incorporate others, whenever possible. We are delighted that, until now, you have coincided with us and convinced that you can continue to coincide today and in the future. Therefore, it seems to me that, in this sense, full harmony. Actually, what we're doing, Mrs. Alicia Romero, is exactly all that you asked us to do. And make a rest, too: what we're doing is a modernization of computer systems; a deployment of agency staff – you didn't just mention some concrete examples –; a better fight against tax fraud, which was strongly associated with having better data, creating data, etc., is what we're doing; we're getting back together by executive means, we're also doing it – you're remembering it – and pushing forward a new territorial model of agency that allows the government to take on the skills that are now developing property registers. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, that's what you asked us in previous interventions: that's what we're doing. In fact, you're making me a fine-tuned detail and, as a result of the work of these first months of the legislature, today we're in a position to push this territorial deployment. This territorial deployment of the tax agency, which leads us to Law 9/2015, of the Tax Agency of Catalonia, for the ordering of tax units. Territorial deployment that, as we have already announced, will involve the opening of various..., of a good bunch of new offices on the territory, that will allow us to gain proximity with the taxpayers and will, above all, allow us to generate physical work spaces for the new workers who will have to arrange the Tax Administration to take over the skills that are already in their own hands, but that is not developing. The first function we have to perform is, precisely, that of the executive recaptancy of the unpaid. A competence which is instrumental in the proper functioning of a tax administration and which is inherent in the collection of any tax, however small it may be. The Secretary of Heritage – the secretary is here, you have made reference to it – is working to incorporate the personnel needed to develop the information systems to execute the embargoes derived from the unpaid processes. If it is true that there are many autonomous communities that are already developing these functions, our approach went beyond the strictly autonomous framework, and what it wants is to take over the functions of a state, the tools of a state. We are not only working to manage the forty-thousand unpaid debts that come from the tax agency's own actions, but we have also done so with the intention of replacing the State Administration in Catalonia by providing services to local administrations that carry out repo functions. For example, with a close coordination with the four members, and also with some joints to which we go providing this service. We believe that the amount of debt we will have to manage at the end of a year will exceed half a million. On the other hand, the second major function that we are partially delegating to the State Administration is the liquidation of assigned taxes. Of the 1,896_million that we collected in taxes handed down the year 2015, 1,032 were collected for the fifty-three registrars of the property, with which the Tax Agency of Catalonia maintained an agreement, and 864..., 1,032..., and 864 were registrad for the four offices of the Catalan Administration. As you know, and as many of the people who are with us here know, the property logger's Deganate is unique in format, as long as these companies of the State have private businesses, with personal work character, and, indeed, as you have recalled, these companies, these companies, those companies, that have these companies, were covered by the Government of Catalonia 25_millions in 2015, and the forecast is that they will be coming back about 27th 2016. Some of these companies will have tickets of more than 2 million euros. As you also know, and as many of the people who are with us today know, this singularity has motivated you to, for example, vote for not extending the agreement with the owners' registrars or that various autonomous communities have decided not to serve the registrars. The most appropriate case, from many points of view, is that of the Balearic Islands, where in 2009 the People's Party government decided not to extend the agreement with the property registrars, and since the 1st generation of 2010 is developing directly the services through the successful Ballar Administration. Why do we seem to need to review what we've been doing these past years? So, because we are convinced that we need an agency that grows, that is strengthened, that develops as much as possible all its skills, that we no longer charge the State with a share of our skills, because we understand that it is not right to award a service with a billing volume of 27_million euros to private companies that have very high profit margins, without ever having to develop a public competition or allow free competition. Because we understand that tax collection is a central and very sensitive element of public administration, and we believe that it is not appropriate for us to end this service in the private sector. Of course, we are ahead of an environment where privatization and outsourcing are not, in our view, politically appropriate. The government has wanted to examine the issue in depth, and we are still working to take over the liquidation of all taxes in 2017 directly, under the best conditions. And we intend to rely on the professionals who are now developing these functions from the fifty-three liquidation offices, which facilitate their access to the Administration of the Generality, that is, always respecting the legal framework in force. The deployment of these two functions, the execution and the liquidation of the taxes transferred, will allow the agency to tax steps from the 324 workers it had in mid-January 2015 to about 750, at the end of 2017, and will allow us to stop being one of the autonomous communities with a less developed tax administration, to put us at the forefront of the common rule communities. We fully trust that the Catalan Administration, as in so many other areas, will develop the service by substantially reducing the current costs, keeping it efficient, and feeling more effective in the fight against fraud, for the many reasons I have already explained to the heart of my intervention, since the integration of all these services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.206.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Next, there's the word "Mrs. Alicia Romero."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.207.0	Thank you, President. See if I'm able to say so many things in five minutes. Thank you for quoting me, I remember this intervention. And I've already said, we share the point. In fact, at the meeting with the workers of the liquidating offices I said, and I said, "I don't want to deceive you. I share the point that the tax agency assumes the functions that the Spanish tax agency and the liquidating offices have at these times, but this is not the issue. The issue is how we do it, and how we involve these workers in this new stage. And it seems to me, therefore, that it is not being done properly. First, we haven't talked to them, we haven't told them anything, we haven't brought them together, and so, so, there's been denial and uncertainty about these workers to see what's going to happen to their work places, and also to see what's going to happen to those tickets they get, so, listen, the liquidating offices, the costs with which they get in is a 2-percent. Some under a 2_per_cent, others, a 2 and a half; the middle is a 2_per_cent, it is to say that they are very efficient and very effective offices. I don't mean that the Catalonia Tax Agency isn't, but, look, we're disassembling something that works very well to mount another one that we'll see. And I'm sure there are multiple options, that's to say, from integrating them into the tax agency, substituting the workers..., that's to say, many options, which, in any case, the government has to study and work. And what we do today is that, listen to me, I study them, and when I have a proposal, so, listen, the present one, and it does not generate the uncertainty that is generated not only in the workers, but also in the assemblies..., and to any interested in the public finances of Catalonia ; or so on, with some facts of the liquidating offices. In the period 2008-2014, in order to put a given, the liquidating offices turned 431,577 parallel liquidations, and the tax agency offices 44,000, that is, the difference is very important, and the recovery obtained for the liquidating offices is twice as much as the one generated by the tax agency. And that's not critical of the tax agency, it's that we also have to see that the liquidating offices are private, sick, property registrars...,,,,,,,,,,! Listen, I don't have any appreciation for the property loggers, I'd just miss it! And, besides, I've already said, I think it's an element that needs to be solved and that we need to end it better, but, please, do it well, do it rigorously, work with the professionals, look for a solution, that, listen, that does not create problems neither to the tax system nor, therefore, to those people who are occupying a place of work and do it for a long time and in a professional way. And you didn't answer the question I was asking you, which is, "Will they report the deal now? Without talking to the workers, without presenting a plan of how to develop these important tasks? Because you tell me: "No, 2017 will have 350 to 700 workers. And how will they do that? If we have now done some tests of forty and only eleven have approved them. It's that the tax agency doesn't hire administrative assistants, hires people of a lot of training, a lot of complexity, and so it's not easy, and we've seen it in the past few years. It is not easy for the tax agency to grow, and therefore we are very concerned about this. And when you talk about the future of the agency, which we share, in the sense that a particular estate you own in an independent state, we want its own federation with the State, this is the difference, but we can share the model. So, listen to me, we're worried, because when we read the Council's reports for the National Transition, so, I did a few things to be able to have a proper story. First, it said that the collaboration of the State was to be maintained, and that if it were, it would take us two years to have a proper history. Why? So, because we need, he said, "A hundred contributors and a database, clau. How is this topic? Are you two talking? , because Mr. Salvador tells his interviews with the media, that he wants to discuss with the State. Have we started working on this? Because it's having the hundreds of contributors and the databases for 2017 I see it's quite complex, and quite difficult. And if we don't have this, we can't manage, collect all Catalan taxes. Then, I say, you have to count, according to what you say in this report, with 5,000 workers. Home, it looks like that, and according to the European Union it should be about 7,000. Listen to me, we see, by 2017, this is not unlikely, it's that..., impossible. So, honestly, we're a little worried. Then he also talks about the duanes, how we control the duanes, which are also key to the tax system. And the other one, to give another example, is how we expand the security body template to help us in the fight against tax fraud. I only quote some, but, frankly, that report is worrying in the sense that it says many things that need to be done in order to have a proper record and to be able to collect and manage all the taxes that Catalans pay, and, frankly, I see it hard enough that you, not with seven, now with fourteen or thirteen months, can develop it. So, man, we'd simply like to be more honest about all the folds and neither, so, we're feeding a dream, a wish we think it won't be possible to finish 2017. And we ask, quite simply, that you come to your Parliament and to our vagina explaining what the development plans of this agency are – some of us can share them, not – but above all that they work rigorously and that, above all, they talk to those to whom their decisions affect, in the case of liquidating offices, workers, registrars..., and joint ventures, which are very concerned. And, therefore, we ask you this, please, that I aim to do things rigorously, because the objectives can be shared, but the forms, the ways, are also very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.208.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The vice president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.209.0	Good afternoon, another time. Mrs. Alicia Romero, I share with you that the forms are very important, I share with you that these questions are to be done very well, that they are to be done very carefully, that they are to be worked very well; totally agreeable. I've already told him before that I understood that we agreed and continue to agree with you. No, no, for now I can't disagree with you. So I share everything you've said. You tell me: "But I'm worried about these office workers. I now try to read, literally, what I tried to explain before, and say: "From the government, we wanted to analyze the question. We are still working to assume, during 2017, directly the liquidation of all taxes surrendered under the best conditions. And, we intend to do so, relying on the professionals who are developing these functions today, from the fifty-three liquidation offices, facilitating their access to the Generality Administration, always respecting the conditions of the legal framework, which is currently in force. It is obvious that there are questions about the legal framework we want to change, some of us want to change them deeply; but at these times, we do it in the framework in which we are, okay? So I understand that I did answer the question. You say: "You did not answer the question about the situation... Yes, and I did say so, and because I have no doubt: "We intend to rely on the professionals who are today developing these functions from the fifty-three liquidating offices, facilitating their access to the Administration of the Generality, respecting the legal framework in force. I therefore understand that I have made clear to her that she was concerned or that she was initially concerned about her intervention. Maybe because I've already made it clear, let's just say it... or, anyway, I'll add something, huh? Precisely this is one of the key elements, this will, which must allow us to move, from mid-2015, from some 324 workers, at the end of 2017, to about 750 workers. So, that's what we're up to. You say to me, "But it's about 5,000 caldrons. Well, listen, if it's 5,000, we'll do... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, I don't know, if you agree, but..., or not, but you mentioned this cipher. Listen, if it's 5,000, between all the folds – and I hope you'll help us, too, so – we'll do everything we can. And if in place of 5,000 there are 4,800, and if in place of September 2017 it turns out that it's November, and if not..., and if it's to be... Listen, I don't know, we'll work as seriously as possible. No, no..., and the government assumes the objectives it assumes, not the objectives of a concrete document that you quote. So let us separate: what the government says is clear. What we want is to take advantage of, to give continuity to the work that these workers do from the offices of property registrars and to facilitate their access to the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia, is already there. And we'll do it as well as we'll know and not, no... I'm convinced that, besides, we'll do it very well, huh? So, we'll know a lot at the time to do it. And that our goal, 2017, is to get around these 750 workers, yes, and that we come from 324 to mid-2015. That's it, that's our goal. Then perhaps because I have already answered it, then you say to me: "There are other questions, the question of the duanes. Listen, yes, of course, there are other questions, and all these questions we take on and assume with the utmost sense of responsibility, with the best will and with the conviction that they are capable of solving the problems that we will obviously have to take on. Yes, no one said it was easy, but it's not easy to manage reality now, as parliamentary debates seem to me to show. Therefore, trust that this concrete question of the offices of the property registrars will be solved by this way that I have explained to you before and that I have explained to you again now, and confidence that the joint taxation agency will do its job as well as lime, and probably much better than many other jobs that have been done at these times in other administrations. So..., and any other doubt about the question, in the appearances, here to the hemisphere or in commission with the counselor or with the secretary, so it will be a pleasure to enlighten them. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.210.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Asking the Government about the leisure and tourism project of BCN World]] [[300-00072/11]] The eighth item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on the leisure and tourism project of BCN World, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose it, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.211.0	Yes, thank you very much, President. This morning, the president of the Socialist Group, Miquel Iceta, commented that, contrary to his intention, it was the third time during this mandate that he asked about the issue of the CRT World NCB. It's my fourth time that, against my will, for the indefiniteness of the project, so it's up to me to intervene. In the three previous times we've talked about everything. He touched me with Mr. Rull, he touched me with Mr. Junqueras... We talked about the conditions that caused Port Adventure to succeed in the north; we talked about the tourism model needed on the Costa Daurada; we talked about the need or not to make a reference on the issue; we talked about the territorial consensus in the area, and that from the government until now it had been denied – now it seems that they have changed their mind – until we had had some debate about ludopathies with Mrs. Hortênsia Grau. Therefore, I have no intention of going into this question in depth in debates that had already arisen and that had arisen from the table, but it has occurred in the past months, ever since the intervention, a series of novelties that provoked the need to speak of this issue again. Today, at last, there has been another, an end to Mr. Iceta's question. Of these novelties, there is one that I think could be positive; there is another that raises serious questions, the most serious of all; there is a third that is critical, critical in the sense that if it is not resolved immediately this will go in horror, and, finally, there has been this later novelty, the announcement that tomorrow will be approved in Tarragona the PDU. Mr. Iceta, very disciplinedly, has sent to Mr. Puigdemont a centered suau because Mr. Puigdemont remained at the mouth of the cano without wearing it. It was a question-massage that may be announcing new game strategies, but it was quite surprising, anyway. I, in any case, ask you, Mr Junqueras..., you before Mr Coscubiela told him textually that "no come smoke. I'll ask the same of you later. And I say it with all the moderation and temperament of the world, because if Mr. Coscubiela, who is from the left, told him what he said, as I pass, he'll bring me hats from here. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And, therefore, my intention is to keep a quiet debate. I warn him that I have seen a little truth and say, "Let's see now what's going on. Let's analyze the three novelties that have occurred. First, the reference has been discarded. After the Byzantine debates that we held in this plenary, you defended him and we said that it was absurd, Mr Puigdemont, president of the Generality, went to Tarragona and there the same mayors of his party, directors of his party, said to him: "This is a beast. The communication media, the union, exactly the same arguments that we used to serve, but, like we made them serve us, they didn't serve. So, Mr. Puigdemont was told that this reference had not been heard; therefore, positive news. The second element, key, vital, is the breach of the parliamentary pact with the CUP, because here the CUP, contrary to you, has maintained a coherent position, with which we radically disagree, but it has remained coherent. They said they didn't want to know about this project and that they were putting it as a condition to continue the mandate. That's what blocked the situation. The question I'd like you to answer is: before the confidence motion, if the CUP re-asks as a condition for this confidence to withdraw the CRT project, what will you do? I don't think that's a question. I believe, in short, that it is the essential question that may or may not give credibility to the announcement made today by Mr Puigdemont. It is the key question: what will happen this time if the UPC insists on laying down how to remove this project. The third novelty, which I will explain – and I recognize that I obviously had to rethink this inquiry as a result of this morning's announcement – is that nothing had been done at all. That's true. We need to see if it's tomorrow, in what terms it's going to be and after what you're going to tell me, but it's obvious that nothing was done in the last few months. And that has consequences – that has consequences – and that's also a question I'm going to ask you. The only signed investor, who was Melco, announced at the shareholders' meeting – I quote textually – "The development of the project continues to feel uncertain about the political situation in Catalonia. We're serious about giving it up. After that, the Government of Catalonia, the sources of the Government – this, to you, or to you, Mr. Rull, to no one, I have heard him publicly say re–, replied, as to the sources of the Government, they deny this reality, but I to a counselor still have not heard him say re of Melco's statements. So I'd like to hear, Mr. Junqueras, what you have to say about this. Therefore, beyond what can be passed from tomorrow, that so much good is for good, worth the redundancy, we are today, today, worse than ever, worse than three months ago. We had given you a time because you asked for it to seek political consensus. Mirin, political consensus, by definition, is desirable, but there are occasions..., basically, it can be said that it is metaphysically impossible to achieve it, to the European Union; in fact, there are things that it is decided that an absolute consensus is not necessary, because, if not, the lack of consensus blocks. Here you can pass exactly the same, if you have to agree to the business needs to develop a project of these characteristics and the tourist model of the CUP or Catalonia Yes it is possible..., this will be radically impossible, because, again, they are totally respectable models that defend with vehemence and conviction, and we have nothing to say about it, but it is also obvious that no important company will invest any euro with the conditions it requires. It's impossible. And let's go back to the story of Port Adventure: without tax incentives, which is what's at stake, and without urban benefits Port Adventure would not exist. And that's not what the People's Party Group invented, it's the reality of the world we live in – it's the reality of the world we live in: no tax incentives and no urban benefits Port Adventure would exist. And to think – to think – that you can achieve a project even bigger than Port Adventure without giving any incentive to those who have to invest, therefore, is to do somiatruites, directly. Therefore, we will be very attentive to what you have to say will be approved tomorrow, to see what conditions they pose. Precisely, for this matter we would like to ask you..., there would have to be three questions now that will be two and a half, from this morning's announcement, and I would like to say, Mr Vice President, that you did not answer empty phone calls for content to the dialogue, to the consensus, to the process, no; as a public manager, as a public servant who has to give concrete answers in this room, because until now, therefore, you have played floral, verbal games, but you have never been able to give concrete answers. Tomorrow the PDU is approved, but we don't know what reaction it's going to have on the side... by the private side on the terms that you're starting tomorrow. The question is: who terms are fixed yourself to exercise the option of buying land agreed with the Box? Who says they're in possession? I don't think I'm asking for mass. Again, a public manager must be able to give these concrete answers. And this connects us with the second question: can you bring us a calendar? A minimally credible calendar, we already know that the calendars, to everyone, pass, at any level of government, that it costs to complete them, we are fully aware: it passes to the autonomous government, to the government of Spain, to the municipal governments... But, man, a calendar damont de la taula; we have not seen it, never gave us a calendar. And, thirdly, beyond the PDU, which model do you have? Because they did, they said: "We must seek consensus. But the government like the government has never been able to move to Catalan society, obviously to Tarragona, which is the model you have for this tourist complex. Beyond that, I'm going to repeat it again, wavets. What do they want? We have a model, like the government, and we are willing to negotiate it, but this is our model. That, he didn't, they never did. Therefore, we ask him to do so, but with many reservations, I also say so. The announcement that they have made today the Kingdom hopes, but I am very afraid, and I say it again, I repeat with all the cordiality of the world, that until the question of trust is resolved the announcement of this morning is not credible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.212.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.213.0	Good afternoon to everyone, another time. Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, you know it's always a pleasure to talk to you and answer your questions. You said: « Answer me with... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Follow me, huh? « Answer'm with the public manager. So, I answer it as the public manager: today I won't explain what we're going to explain to you tomorrow. Your inquiry is very timely. Sense of doubt. And you proved very capable of anticipating events, because you came into this inquiry and probably didn't know that we would announce all this tomorrow, probably didn't know, and, if you knew, you still have more merit, let's just say it, huh? If it's pure intuition, it's extraordinary, and if it's not... if it's not that, like he always asks the same question, one day or another he had to pick it up. But whatever the case is – whatever the case is – there is no doubt that the inquiry is timely. You say to me, "Who is the model of the government? I think I've explained it many times, huh? I here, in his parliamentary office; the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, too, have explained it many times: a model that is realistic, that is sustainable. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, I didn't protest, I didn't complain. I'll explain what the model is. It's obvious that tomorrow we'll give you some data, and I'm sure you understand that you don't answer it today, that I don't give it... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, not today, because we'll explain it tomorrow. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, because there's a question of... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, I get it perfectly, and I'm sure we'll have a chance to get back to him and answer the proper questions that you're sure about, or probably you'll do about this, but it's obvious that first we'll explain it in the CRT, that we'll explain it to the institutions that are involved there, etc. Therefore, the data will be explained tomorrow. In any case, we have said that they will be very different – very different – to those that were originally there. That's what we've explained many times. So, what can you expect? Therefore, a proposal very different from the original proposals. Okay? If there was a proposal... the second of the proposals, not the first, huh? , the first one still..., the first one was 30_million visitors a year. Okay? We've already explained many times that this was totally unworkable, no... but that's a lot less than that, a lot less than that, too. Okay? And that's why we opposed each other. We did not oppose it because we are against any kind of proposal that is made. We opposed it because it seemed to us that it was a non-realistic proposal, that it was an absolutely out of measure proposal, because it is obvious that this country cannot receive 30_million more visitors. Hey, what's up? Therefore, it will be a different proposal from what has been the case so far: a more realistic proposal, a more sustainable proposal, a proposal that is more integrated around it, from all points of view, from an urban perspective, from a social perspective, from a territorial perspective... So, in this sense, it will be much better, even though it is only because this time there are investors who are pre-qualified and who, undoubtedly, will participate in this project. So, what's the difference with previous projects? That before there were some projects, but there were no investors, and when there was an investor the investor disappears, and now there are no investors, who are prequalified, etc. Therefore, tomorrow we will announce these measures, these quantitative data which you legitimately claim from us, but which I legitimately believe I have to answer: "Today we will not explain. Tomorrow you'll know it, just as you'll all know it. And then we can discuss it as much as we can. Now, as in the previous months, so, I still need a little more discretion. And, do you know that this government has been able to maintain this discretion for months? So much discretion that you, after all, thought we didn't do anything. Imagine us being discreet in our management. But the facts finally come to the aid of our good work, and tomorrow you will prove that yes, that we have done; even though you legitimately thought, "This government is doing nothing. Yeah, yeah, we did. What happened, which we did discreetly, because it seemed to us that it was up to us to do so discreetly, because it seemed to us that it was up to us to do so out of the media pressure, out of the pressure of possible interest groups in this area, and so we did. We've done it from the Department of Economy and we've done it from the Department of Territories, we've done it with investors, we've done it with the territory, which also demonstrates the discretion of the territory. Therefore, it is not only the discretion of the Government, but the discretion of all the agents involved: those of the territories, social agents, public administrations, investors, etc. And it seems to me that it would be a long time now for a few days to go until tomorrow, if we announce all of this, and if the competent agencies think it is opportune, tomorrow at a later date, with Councillor Josep Rull, then it will proceed to the second approval of the PDU, a PDU_second, which will respond to these criteria that he was now commenting on and that he will know about the data, so this, tomorrow, will have full knowledge. In the meetings that we have held in these past months – in these past five months – to give a compliment to the parliamentary mandate that is due, among others, to the motion approved for this Parliament in the previous parliamentary term, the week that you see..., sorry, tomorrow will be announced in the CRT, after, in the late afternoon, with Councillor Rull will proceed to the approval, if they think so, of the new PDU. The week you see. The week that you will meet with the Follow-up Committee of the Urban Master Board, in which all the groups of this chamber are involved, and, therefore, you will have all the knowledge, if possible, more detailed than what we explain tomorrow, so, still more detailed, and, if not, in any case, we will be at your disposal in the follow-up committee to clarify all the doubts that you have, that may arise, etc. And finally, and I know you're going to think that it's not concrete, but it's that, I insist, it's concrete tomorrow, huh? Therefore, I am convinced that the project will be a project that will have a broad consensus, that it will have a very broad political consensus, that it will have a very broad social consensus. In fact, in the negotiation and work process that has taken place, this consensus, we are convinced that it will be produced; I mean, it is not just an intuition, but that it is the fruit of the work that has been done so far, and that it will be a realistic project, a project that it will do, a project with solid investors and that will have positive, very positive, extraordinarily positive consequences from an economic and social point of view in the most appropriate territory, in the reversal that will take place and in the context of our country. I am sure that the next intervention will give little more relief on my part, even though, I insist, I will not give it any detail because we will do this tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.214.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Next, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.215.0	Well, thank you, President. It is clear, Mr Vice-President, that you have proved to have a liquid concept of the laws and the vision of parliamentarianism, but two or three concepts allow them to be remembered: this chamber has as its function to legislate and those we are opposed to controlling the government. Also the groups that are gathering the government control the government. So, what's good here you and assume here you haven't given any kind of explanation to the legislative power seems absolutely mind-blowing to me. And actually – effectively – I'm activating my intuition, because I don't have another line left; if I have to expect you to give me an explanation of anything I'm clear about. No, no, tomorrow... what's a real scandal is that he's negating in this room, and I'm telling him frankly, too: this is disrespectful to this room. What I can't say is: "No, I explain it in another place, because that place is more adige or more important. You have the responsibility and the obligation to give accounts in this room, you can't run away from studying, which is what you're doing today. And how I don't want you to run away from studying, because at the end I'm very afraid you'll continue to do it, I finish – because I want to be telegraphic – asking you another time the big question of the credibility of the announcement you've made today, ask you attention: if the CUP asks you to withdraw this project to approve the question of trust, what will you do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.216.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the Deputy President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.217.0	I'm sure the... sorry, it's late for everybody else another time. Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, surely your intuition is back to being brilliant. And indeed, I will not give you any data because we will do this tomorrow and we will announce it in public tomorrow, we will explain it in the CRT, we will announce it in the march of competent bodies, and the week you see, in the march of the follow-up committee of this Parliament, we will explain all the details that you think are appropriate. And it's obvious that our will is to explain in this room where you ask us. But you also have to understand that our responsibility as a government is to make sure that these projects, whatever they are, then, listen, go well. And I'm sure he doesn't see the proper hours. No, no... Therefore, a little patience, the explanations you will have all of them, you will have them tomorrow, you will have them the week you see, there are follow-up mechanisms, etc., but also understand that our will is to ensure that the project fires forward. And yes, it may sometimes be discreet– yes. So, what do you want me to say? Yes, I need to be discreet, because many of these investments, or of many other investments, demand discretion on the part of investors; and if they ask discretion on the part of investors, then, listen, it seems to me that the government must be discreet in this management. Then, listen, we'll give you all the explanations you're looking for, and you'll have the opportunity to say, "Listen, you've been undiscreet, but you've barely applied that discretion. The result of this discretion is not what I would want. You'll have a chance to judge it: that's why you don't have to suffer, you don't have to suffer people; but we have to have a margin of negotiation, we have to have it. So, listen, tomorrow we'll explain, you'll have all the details, all the figures, all the numbers, like everybody else. And, I insist, you will have the opportunity, starting with the week you go to the follow-up committee, so, parliamentary, where are all the groups, to have all the information you ask – all of it. And not only that, but to future questions that you can do in this room I'll be happy to explain all the details to you – all of them. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, not today, because that's what we're gonna do tomorrow. It's all right, isn't it? To you it may seem good or bad, no, no... But, indeed, you say: "You flee from study. Qualify it as you do, I think I'm acting responsibly and so tomorrow we'll explain it. And all the groups... – because you have now pointed out, I understand, that other parliamentary groups – listen, all the groups will have a chance to decide whether they look good or if they look bad. It's all right, it's all right. But the government won't stop doing what you think is good for the country because you seem better or we won't stop doing it or we won't do it at any other time or... So, no, listen. After you can judge us, this chamber will judge us. You will have the opportunity, at last, to judge the government's conjunction with a trusting motion. No..., don't pateixin: occasions to examine us, in many tend. And finally, the main opportunity to examine all of us will have society on the day that there are elections, as there have been this past day. Okay? So... and the results will be the city's decision and we'll take them, right? At least, we did, because we've always done it. So, you don't have to suffer from this. I insist: I am convinced that the project will have a broad political consensus, a broad social consensus, a broad consensus in the territory, a broad consensus on the part of investors, it will be a realistic project well integrated in the territory, it will be a realistic project in the sense that investors will exist, that they will participate in the project, that they will be, that they will not disappear. Because, listen, proposals can't be made many, but if after the reversal isn't up and the jobs aren't created, they don't serve as kings. And so it's much better... You said to me, "I don't smoke. Indeed, there are no people, nor a drop of smoke; in fact, I am not the king. Imagine's, isn't it? So, everything... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay, so... [[Rialles.]] Okay. It doesn't look good to you, whatever it is. I understand that, but... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay... – Okay, but you understand that we do, precisely because we don't want to sell smoke, make a project that's realistic. Tomorrow you will have it..., and everyone will have knowledge of all the data, and, I insist, you will have occasion to value it and to judge us. It's all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.218.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Question to the Government about a demilitarized Catalonia]] [[300-00068/11]] The new item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on a demilitarized Catalonia, presented for the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Gabriela Serra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.219.0	Thank you, President. Hello, good afternoon, thank you to the one I'm still here and to those I'm here to listen to this proposal for demilitarization. Well, so-so it's late. We come from a long tradition more proclivous to pau than not to militarism; we can't return'sal tempo de pau and treva because only a few years ago we find that, already, in the preamble of the project of the Statue of Nuria of 1931, it was clearly specified: "The people of Catalonia not as an exclusive aspiration, but as a redemption of all the peoples of Spain, would want the young woman to be freed from the slavery of the military service. So, well, shortly thereafter, our freedoms were struck and eradicated by a civil war that was the result of a military coup, and that army that has never been cleansed and that, at this time, has not yet demanded forgiveness for the fascist barbarism that annihilated the legitimate and legal Government of the Republic exists is what has lasted until today. That's right, with certain changes, as well as not the one wearing the commander in the head, which continues in the hands of the nest of the Bourbons. It has persisted with a very concrete and specific task and attributes which, today, create a certain anguish: the defense before the external enemy– we define « enemy–, the defense of the unit of Spain and that of the Spanish constitutional order. And yet, at the length of these years, the Catalan society has been characterized by its ability to mobilize unequivocally towards its objectives, with peaceful tools and strategies. It may be recalled that on July 10, 2010, the 11th of September diades of the last five years demanded by our national rights recently manifested a multitude of events. And, in the field of peace and anti-militarist movement, I want to highlight four decisive moments of the past forty-five years that have gone by inflection points. The first, the year 1971, when in Pepe Beúnza is declared objector of consciousness to the military service; the first person that to the Spanish State did it for political reasons. The second, on March 12, 1986 – 30 years ago – the PSOE government called for a controversial referendum to ratify or not the Spanish State's stay in NATO. That anti-NATO movement took on a huge social mobilization capability and opened the debate on one of the dictatorship's taboo heretics: the army. The pacifist movement, under the slogan « Neutrality: NATO, no; bases, outside opened the trunk box by publicly conjured with a debate that questioned aspects as transcendental and never adopted as much for civil society as the functions of the armed forces, concepts of defence and enemy, military spending, arms trade, as well as its clear position against imperialism and militarism of the United States and the Soviet Union. The result, dissociatedly, validated the option defended for the government, but not so in Catalonia, where massively the citizenry we chose for the « no. The third, from the end of the decade of the eighty to the suspension of the compulsory military service in 2001, the campaign of insubmission to the militia and to the substitute social service probably became one of the struggles of organised civil disobedience, of direct confrontation with the State and with its armed arm, the army, more powerful and significant of the last time. During these years, thousands of young people declared themselves unsubmissive, disobeying military conscription. Remember: "Let our lives not be secreted from us, we proclaimed. And many of them were brought to justice and nearly a thousand in the whole of Spain entered the prison, denying constant actions, mobilizations and international support. The great thing, the most significant pedagogical tangle in insubmissiveness is the enormous potential that civil disobedience has as a tool of change and social transformation. The fourth, the platform « We stop the war, coordinating in Catalonia the mobilizations against that illegal and illegitimate war of Iraq, during the year 2003, organizing the historic demonstration of the 15th of February that has claimed 1,300,000 people. They still resonate with the cassolades that they struck for weeks, night after night, for the streets and places of the towns and cities of our country. And that's how our home has created an association name, entities and social movements that are working for justice, for law, for law, for international solidarity, for organization with Fundipau – the Foundation for the Pau –, the Center for Studies for the Pau, for the Women of Black or Justicia and for Pau, which, among other things, are pushing campaigns like the tax objection to military spending or "Demilitarize education"; or the School Network Associated with UNESCO of Catalonia, which needed to be aimed at promoting international cooperation and peace through school education; and so do the names and various anti-militaristic collections that work in this line of arms from the Palestinian-Culturalist industry. Dissidence, resistance and incidence, key concepts, because, the result of the social pressure of all these struggles and mobilizations, is that Catalan legislation has been pushed to incorporate part of its contents, and that today I am already a referent. Four phonological exponents. In the first place, the Law 21 of 2003, of foment of the pau, the first law of foment of the pau to our home, in its various articulations manifests that the prevention and peaceful resolution of conflicts and social tensions and the reinforcement and the relationship of the pau and coexistence are values that must guide the activity of the Administration of the Generality and the local ones. It also refers to the promotion of global disarmament and the search for negotiation and mediation processes. Thus, the present Statute of Catalonia, in its preamble, says: « Catalonia, from its humanist tradition, holds its commitment with all peoples to build a peaceful and just world order. And in Article 51 I am still more specific: "The Generalitat must promote the culture of pau and actions to promote pau in the world. And, in the third place, remember that the year 2007 this Parliament of Catalonia created the Institut Català Internacional per la Pau, which wants to promote the culture of pau in Catalonia and the world, facilitate the peaceful resolution and transformation of conflicts, and make this, our Catalonia, have an active role as an agent of pau. But our legal system went a lot further. The Law 16/2014, of external action and relations with the European Union, in Article 3, apart f, says that the promotion of pau, non-violence, human security, solidarity, cooperation, development aid, food sovereignty, the fight against climate change, etc., will be guiding principles of the external action of Catalonia and relations with the European Union. What guiding principles? Because there are significant facts and data respecting the military presence in Catalonia that we need to know and spread, and some very important aspects that we need to address with conviction and firmness in order not to make full use of the proclamations of our own laws. Let me give you a few examples. Over the past year, 2015, there was a more than remarkable increase in the Spanish army's military performance in Catalonia: 2014 was 1,574, 2015_has increased to 2,237 soldiers; in a year it has increased by 663. In addition to the various barracks, commands, academies, camps, bases, museums, the Ministry of Defence and the Institute of Housing, Infrastructure and Defence Equipment count Catalonia with a wealth of people less suitable for buildings and buildings; we are talking about a surface that, for the head down – you are insured, right? –, overwrites 20_million_square_metres. This is why the land oligarchy is called. Any rere year continues the military presence in educational or cultural spaces to various Catalan populations. We refer to the Saló de l'Ensenjament or the Festival de la Infància, Barcelona ; the Espai de l'Student, Valls ; the Expojove a la Fira de Girona, and the Saló de l'Esport e Turisme de Muntanya or the Fira de Formació Professional e Treball, both in Lleida. The values that the military institution transmits – such as blind obedience, discipline, patriarchy, ethnocentrism and above all violence as a means of resolving conflicts – contradict the values of pau, dialect and freedom that must be at the basis of the education of children and the youth of our country. And it is perpetual and military maneuvers are extended to various parks and natural sites – the Serra de Collserola Natural Park, the Serra de l'Albera, the Montserrat mountain – or the participation of combat planes at the Festa del Cel in Mataró. Thus, this dynamic of bile exhibition is present in different Catalan populations, such as Sant Climent Sescebes or Talarn, among others. And finally, the military industry is well present in Catalonia. At 22 @, the barri Barceloní, at Poblenou, is found its Indra, a group to which Indra Systèmes belongs, a company specialized in electronics and technologies for its security and defense. The company participates in almost all weapons programs of the Spanish Armed Forces, manufacturer of aircraft flight systems and combat helicopters, electronics and communications systems for warships and armoured vehicles. It must be borne in mind that Indra is a company to which the Government of Catalonia has contracted multiple services, such as air control of the airports, the Catalan motorways, and to which, regrettably, it has granted public aid. Thus, Catalonia participates directly or indirectly in the trade in arms to countries where there are bilateral conflicts, where human rights are violated: Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Qatar... We live on the shores of the Mediterranean, a sea that in the last few years has become a grave for thousands of people seeking refuge in Europe, fleeing the wars and armed conflicts that European states have helped to generate, which have acted in one way or another. We, the CUP - Constituent Creed, believe that Catalonia has the opportunity to become a country that you put in order not to perpetuate neither oppression nor death. We have the challenge of rethinking the current concept and model of security and defence, doing it from other parameters, from other very different premises. We have the opportunity to start laying the foundations for building a new framework of international relations that is rooted in the values of justice, pau, respect and solidarity. The esteemed Miquel Martí and Pol said: « The cock is not a breath of wind, / but the stone with which every day you carve the effort to conquer it. We must, therefore – at the CUP we know well – bite a lot of stone; we must go sculpting some of this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.220.0	Congresswoman, it's hard to tell...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.221.0	...this Catalan republic that they fly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.222.0	...but he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.223.0	Everything, everything? [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.224.0	At all – at all – yes. I'm having a hard time, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.225.0	Well, thank you very much. [[Some applause.]] I was two minutes away from the other day, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.226.0	Yeah, of course, but they don't do one day for the other. [[Rialles.]] Reply by Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.227.0	Thank you, President. Many thanks, honourable Member, and allow me to thank you first and foremost not only for the opportunity to deal with this issue, but also for the fact that we are absent from the debates that sometimes occupy us and that concern us, that they must do so, but that sometimes they also forget that we live in a world that goes far beyond our daily concerns and occupations, and that also demands many responses and actions that we are not always providing. Allow me also to thank him for another aspect, important from the personal point of view. You have considered, as one of the first aspects relevant to the meaning of what is the history and peaceful and pacifist tradition of this country, a name, a person, Pepe Beunza, and a year, 1971. Pepe Beunza, after having been a pioneer and having started with all the risks and with all the personal penalties that entailed that action, the first time that an objector of conscience who was not Jehovah's witnesses stood before the military service and put them in the face of the military, said to them: "Look, I am not coming to do what you want me to do; I am coming, and the consequences are that we knew them well, and went through enough years of prison, with all the movement that went on there. Years later this action, Mr. Beúnza ended up giving classes at a school, an agricultural training school in Caldes de Montbui, the Marimon Tower, of which there was one person who was the director, and who, in fact, made a great friendship with that person. This director had a son, and this son is talking to them at these times. It was the connection you were talking to right now. I have entered into the world of politics, mobilization, demand, humanity, the hand of Pepe Beunza, and it is for me in these moments especially gratifying to be able to remember, as you also said in your intervention, not only the name, but what it means; what it means because it was for a lot of people the entrance door to which the construction of a social framework, a mental framework, a collective framework, which, in fact, is the rovell, in any case, is the origin that has arisen, in my case at least, in the will to build a new country, a different country, a better country, a country that is precisely heredious and worthy of these movements than at the moment, I repeated, in Pepe Beunza and many others. Therefore, I did not intend to make this initial reference, but his intervention did not only give me little, but he inspired me, taking into account, more than that, that the year in which Pepe did these actions, the year 1971, is the year in which I was born. So, somehow, we'd say that the stars told us that we ended up in this direction. That said, the second question that seemed to me important and relevant to manifest, as you did in your intervention. Some of us want to make a country precisely because what we want is to keep the tools, depend on ourselves to be able to intervene in the great global problems, in the great global reptes, in the great global threats that today affect us and worry us in great quantities. We want a country that guarantees rights and dues, but also, from the point of view of international responsibility, with the instruments, the institutions, the capacities, the political will, to give answer to the great questions that they have to see with collective security, with global security; in short, with human security. The question, in this sense, is very obvious: can this be done in the current mark? No, no way; it's not pot – it's not pot. We're alive, we're painted. And besides, it's not only not possible to do that, but what we're doing is constantly patenting, I would say, the absurd irrationality of a model, of a _marc that neither responds to the current needs, nor responds to the mandates that today globally, universally and socially we have to impose, nor even less responds to, at these times, democratic demands of so many people. That's why it's so important to build a different state, that's why it's so important to build a new state, that's why it's so important to build a state, in short, that it allows us, I repeat, to be the same people who build the brand we want to work on. And what's this brand? It is precisely, to put it this way, the part that you were defining in your intervention. Unfortunately, yesterday we had an example, in this case in Istanbul, Turkey, of which means one of the questions that worry a lot, and that we must be very concerned, which is the use of violence, in this case the use of violence, in other words, let us say to ourselves, there, mortal, of direct violence of weapons, in short, to reap lives; in addition, indiscriminate. This isn't random either. With these actions there are always some causes, there are some questions to be faced, there are some reasons, there are some obstacles that we have to attack from the very beginning in which they are produced. And this is the model of country that I think we need to be able to build and that we are in a condition of building: to understand that every violent action, that every war action has, in reality, a reference, has some causes, and that these causes, mistreats or untreats, are that late or late they would end up, at one time or another, in one place or another, in a dramatic action as we saw yesterday or as this morning or this late we also had to regret, because you have to see with the culture of violence, in relation to the minute we did for the victims of Orlando. We're talking about rape, we're talking about weapons, we're talking about culture of death, we're talking about culture of weapons. It's precisely this culture that we have to set up. And we can do it, we can do it because we have what is most important in any society: an active society, a mobilized society, an absolutely convinced society that this is the way. You haven't mentioned a few, and I subscribe to all the historical moments you've mentioned. And we should not add much more, because obviously, sadly, of motius and reason to go out to the street we have not enough, since the Balkan war, with everything that meant with the solid, humane response of the Catalan society, to the Great Lakes, and later, obviously, the sequence of facts that have, let us say, the Middle East and particularly the Persian golf as the protagonist. I believe that in this sense always this country, especially its people, has been at the height of what was asked of it; not always the institutions that could have given the answer that society has asked them. And, therefore, this is where I put the emphasis and also the hope. The place is there, the essence is there, the will is there, the vocation is there, the ability is there: if you say "Citizenship compromise". And this compromised citizenry, I repeat, is what today has also become very massively aware, it has been agreed that, if we do not have the tools to convert these desires, these vocations and these wills into instruments, resources and political will, we may not be able to do so. Therefore, this is the starting point and therefore I repeat, this is what makes so many people, among them who speak to them, so convinced – above all because there is no alternative – that we urgently need, in an extensive, dialogued, shared way, but I believe that absolutely inevitable, to build this new state, this new country, in order to face the threats that we have at this time, to ensure that the principle of security, to which we want to give response, has to see with human security, and, therefore, to guarantee the dignity and rights of all people, visquin here, they come, arrive or do not follow, here, but they are in other countries and in other rights of the world. And that's why it's so important that in any element that we put on the table... we need to be very clear about this dimension. Yesterday, and I also seem particularly recognizable to remember, we welcomed the vessel that the pro-active organization Open Arms has been able to hire to do tasks of solidarity in the Mediterranean Sea, of gathering refugees, who, as you know, jump constantly and in an unstoppable way every day more. It is the weakness of institutional response, it is the weakness of political will, it is the misunderstanding of the size that we have today before a setback that does not only affect us, but is universal. Before all this – before all this – the question and the question you ask: can we go this way, in the current situation, with the presence of the Spanish army, with the will that at these times the Spanish army has to guarantee not only its presence, but its action, in Catalan territories? The answer is simple: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's why – that's why – what we want is to change the mark, that's why we want to change reality, that's why what we want is a reality in which the Spanish army simply doesn't have a presence. We don't need it, we don't need it, we don't need it, we don't need it. Therefore, the way in which we understand that we must move forward with this reality is a process; we must move towards a proper state and obviously equip ourselves with those brands that we do not have today and that we need to start precisely to dispose of tools, resources and political will to build this culture of the stick, which, in short, I repeat, this yes, there is no alternative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.228.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Next, the Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.229.0	Counselor, perfect. I mean, sharing intervention, less the end. The end I think... here it has been very pessimistic and has greatly reduced the capacity of the democratic institutions of this Parliament and this Government. You spoke of a compromised citizenry. It's a big mess we've got, it's an impressive heritage we've got. And that's why I'm saying, what are we doing now and here with the people of Figueres, who are organized and who reject the promotion of violence in the day of the armed forces? What can we do? Because we can do it here and today, when the military passes by the schools, when the military shoots. What's going on? What can we do now and here, because we can do it, before the military base of Sant Climent, that they will bring, there are already, armored cars, and that they say that they have to do practical and that they have to do maneuvers to face up to what conflicting situations they can appear? We don't know which conflict situations. What can we do with all the plataforms that the military is doing to Collserola? What can we do with the investments that are made to Spola and the entire firing range, which – a cluster of misappropriations – alters the life and normalcy of the people who live there? What can we do with the expense, with the millions that are inverted, in arms companies? What can we do with the money they donate, public money they donate, to Indra? What can we do with the lands we're buying today in the army and that they're in Catalonia, because they're in Catalonia, and we're climbing them every day and buying them, and we're buying them with some absolutely absurd amounts of money? Let's talk about one song and another song. Let's give money to the army of some lands that are at our house. I mean, this... we don't have to wait for a summer, we can't wait for a summer. We need to get in there now. You can do it now, you can do it perfectly now. What can we do with this million-dollar aid that has been given, 63 million aid to companies related to military production at our home? Don't call us a state. That's what we're doing now, we can do it now. What do we need to ban the promotion of military values in Catalonia, a phrase I have not been able to say before and now I have left the paper? No... I mean, the military Easter, we are able to gather three_ thousand people to the castle of Bruc..., because they cry out: "Spanish people, do you swear or promise for your conscience and honor to keep the Constitution as a fundamental rule of the State with loyalty to the king, and if it is necessary to give your life in defense of Spain? You don't have to have a state to ban this. This can be banned now. That's what we can do. We have to say that people do... that civil society is not imbued with it. We can say the military don't have to go to the schools... or let the schools go into the barracks. We can do this now, we can't have a state. That's why I said to my intervention that it's not about defining the defense model, it's not about defining what we want, what type of security we want and what type of defense we want. It's not about defining now that we don't want to exercise. I don't want it; possibly, you don't want it, like Pepe Beunza's good friend and laissezable. But there are things we can and we have to do from now on. Because it's an excuse there. It's an excuse, counselor, it's an excuse. One thing is to build a state and define once again security, defense, international relations, the culture of the pau, and another thing is that today, with all the skills we have, we can already fight, from there small to big, all those keys that still remain and that we will take for a long time of culture of violence. And that's what we need to do with energy, and we're going to put a little... to position, to begin to position, red lines, that we have the competitions and we have the people. That's what we can do. Let's do it, then. Our people, our youth and our future will be grateful to us, and we will be grateful for our summer, because there will be a little work to do. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.230.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.231.0	Well, thank you very much, honourable Member. Well, I, in a very simple and very clear way, and very graphic... If you say excuse, I say opportunity. I mean, it's not an excuse. What I pose very clearly is that building a state – and this seems to me to be indisputable – is an opportunity for all these issues that you raise to get to grips with. So, I don't want to argue about..., it's not that I don't want to, it's not that I don't care, it's not that I don't seem important, but what I want is to get over it. I mean, I don't want to spend the day arguing about issues, to say so, tangentially, but I want to go to the scene of things and I want to go to the scene of the problem, like you, in short, I think you did, too. And, therefore, from this point of view I absolutely share it. I repeat, no excuse. In any case, seeing the opportunity that we have in these moments before us and that, precisely for all the questions that you have expressed, it is so important, it is so urgent, it is so necessary, that we will not delay, it is so urgent that we put ourselves with all the resources, with all the strength and with all the capacity possible to do so, because the harder we triage will be to face it, I repeat. You can do that and discuss a lot of things tangentially. But we won't fix it if we don't really go to the essence of the issue. Second element. I'm not inconvenient in... you said... the issue of competition is obviously important. Listen, I have no objection to the themes in which we have competence... and, in fact, we have shown, by active and passive, that all those elements and all those questions, many of which you have mentioned, for example the practices of the army in Collserola..., had been made very remarkable to the military authorities that this was not well seen, nor allowed, nor authorized, by the Catalan Government. Also, let's say another thing: many of these questions that you have mentioned have to do with other administrations' skills, which we also have absolutely, let's say..., in other words, sympathies with which..., we can share, but each one has the one that touches him. And, therefore, I have no objection to saying, to sharing, but I do not have the capacity to decide on this question; go, neither I nor the Government, in these questions. In other cases, from the point of view, let's say, of what the general line has to be, of course. But, for example, in the participation of the army in certain school activities, in this, unfortunately... I can complain and I can make a public statement here, and I do, that this does not just seem to me to be absolutely correct, but it seems to me to be, in short, an absolute anachronism. I can do that. But the decision doesn't depend on me. They depend in any case on who hires, who warns, who gives permission, who also authorizes certain standings in certain threads. And that's... that's where I think we should go, too. On the stand. That is to say, we must also be aware that all this planning we have to do there in a holistic, integrated and global way. Sense of doubt, we'll agree. But, obviously, we must be able to do what we have to do in every case and at every moment. From the point of view of what the product model means, totally agree– totally agree. That's why it's so important that this theme is on the table, that's why it's so important that we collectively decide who is the model we want from the country and who is not the model we want from the country. And with this we agree, and in this we work, and in this the department that touches me at these times representing is absolutely there, let's say, delivered, with that and anima. If what we want is to lay the foundation debate on which is the model of country we want and why we want it..., I think this is the debate that we need to set up at these times. As you often plant, citing the great Ovidi Montllor, I think this is no longer a time for "soft." It is time to discuss pa senser. And I make this quote that you use so much, because it is, indeed, the debate that we have at these times on the table. If we face it with guarantees, I think we can get out. But if we continually pose in some subtle way questions that are structural in nature, it will be much more complicated. I repeat: what is important is to agree with the essence, what is important is to agree with the motives and the reasons for which we want to do what we do. And what's even more important is getting us to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.232.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about the disciplinary regime of the Squadron Mosses]] [[300-00069/11]] The aim of the agenda is to ask the Government about the disciplinary regime of the Mosso d'Esquadra, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it, has the word Mr. Jean Castel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.233.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs... Counselor, today I come to talk about improving, adapting, finding, all those measures that are a waste that an institution can also put at the service of our agents as squadrons. I want to remind you, I already gave it to you in a call we had a few days ago, that open door you gave us in that first Interior Commission, didn't I? In that first appearance, where we offered that open door of the council because the different parliamentary groups could talk about improving, adapting, whatever we think it is and what it is to be done. We also understand that parliamentary groups in this legislative chamber and the executive power, which is the government, is the one to bring to fruition these laws that come from here, right? And work together, and the more we talk about getting better. You always value the Squad Movements, which we do among all the parliamentary groups in this chamber. But I'd like to remind you: put in value the Squadron Mosses, beyond the words..., we could use that phrase, right? , "less words, power, " and more facts. I say it backwards because it gets better. I'm going to come in... today we're talking about Decree 183/95, June 13, why the disciplinary regime of the Squad Coast of Mossos was approved. We could start by talking about Article 27 – I understand that you know it well, and I will not use my time now with all the detail of these Articles – Article 28, Article 32 and so many others. But on account of getting into the detail, if you'll allow me, today we'll talk about what's the dynamic when the Internal Affairs Division starts any instruction. In more than 50_percent of the cases, and I remarry, in more than 50_percent of the cases, through a phone call from a hidden number, which, I want to remind you, and I want to note, does not offer any guarantee..., and who repeats this call..., the people who make the act of presence to the dependencies of the DAI are summoned. So far we already find a point that we can improve, adapt, that is communication; as and how we carry it to term to give full guarantee in first instance. Who do we have in the other corner of the phone? In many cases, we can question a phone call, and more of a hidden number, right? In the second term, when in that call the agent is informed that "that day at such an hour, you will have to personate yourself to the dependencies of the DAI... that I also want to introduce a point that grinds a little into it: regardless of whether that person comes out of a night return, if that person has just come out of a turn and power is from night and has not slept; if that person has a turn of entry that is incompatible with that act of presence that must be done in the department of the DAI. I mean, we could also arrange and adapt... but obviously, if we go to the rule that rules all this, we don't find this detail. That's right, interpretations... depending on who comes back at every moment, we can open interpretations. I am telling you that I read the Mossos disciplinary law more than once, and we understand that in many places it is open to the interpretation that each one wants to make of this subject. Incoherences such as, in this call, when they say to the agent, "Listen to me, tomorrow at such an hour must be presented to you, where you may or may not come – because it is not a requirement – accompanied by an cast. Incoherence: when the agent wants to advise for an Illustrated and, using what the DAI offers him in this call, he presents himself with an Illustrated and informs him, suddenly, that the Illustrated cannot intervene. That we can understand that in this first process..., we are characterized as the information reserved, counselor, we can understand that the lawyer only advises his client, but it is not that he can do so either, because he is warned by the instructor that "you already know that he cannot intervene or advise. That already violates Article 24. Because we have one thing to think about: in any squad move, beyond his professional activity as the police, there is a city that has his rights, and it is another issue that we could also improve between this writing and this article. I want to talk to him, too, about the statements. Obviously, what's wrong, always – and here I wouldn't want to say it in a way that you understand aggressively, but..., I'll say it in a very affable way, counselor – is misused the fact that you come as witnesses; that's it, and you know it and you know it. Clearly, if I win as a witness, then we're worth it... because when that statement ends, the agent doesn't have a copy of it. What less – what less – than an officer of Squad Mosos who is claimed for the DAI... And I also want to remind him and I want to tell him another data: exactly, obviously, I couldn't profile him, but from the constant study we've done – and we've been working on it – we've been able to find that in 80 or 85 percent of the cases agents who go through DAI come up with an instruction. What do I mean by that? Even though it was a move that you didn't go out with an instruction, that you were left with a decree of absolution according to the fact that nothing happened, even though it was a move, this institution must age to give the guarantees between the fundamental rights, which, as I said before, any move of team has, beyond its professionalism and specialty. There's a place behind it. And let's go back to the rights you have to have. I'd also like to talk about how it's proven... we find a lot of cases, a lot of them studied, where the first instruction from the DAI is given for an anonymous complaint, a call to a police station. Imagine, you, as d'Obert, all this remains to bad intentions – and I will leave it in this sentence – to bad intentions that there may be third parties towards a concrete effect – and I say so in a very open way. Imagine, you, how left of this situation when after passing a whole process to where the agent goes through a calvary and a stigmatization. Imagine, you, when this agent is proven..., and he's absolved of all doubt, when this process has passed, what are the mechanisms that from Squad and from the Directorate General, and, in this case, from the same DAI, are brought to an end to find out who's behind it, because the mechanisms want to remind him that we have them. The mechanisms, among Squadron Mosses are and can also be used to safeguard and give guarantees that the person who has been denounced under a false complaint, who has passed that calvary and stigmatization between the body, and also among their companions, is also a rebuttal that this institution safeguards its interests and pursues to which it has brought a false complaint to an end. Because we also understand that behind every agent there is his honor. And also, from the Department of the Interior and, in this case, from the Council, it should also be old enough to return and return that dignity and honor which, in times given, some agent may have lost. In the same way, we can talk about much more concrete proposals to the House later than in the very House we can bring into this chamber and enter into the detail of what we need to get, what we need to modify and what we need to adapt because no member of our squadron moss can ever go back to a calvary like we could see. You think we've analyzed not a case, we've analyzed a lot of cases, through unions, through the very movements that have passed through this calvary. And, allow me to repeat his sentence again: you always value the work, the agent and the person, we also pose it and, therefore, today we bring this inquiry to this chamber. I will also have time to enter the detail in the time of counter-replication, in the detail of all the measures that we can begin to think about in order to arrange it and adapt it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.234.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by Mr. Jordi Jané, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.235.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Castel, ladies and gentlemen, I, in the first place, thank you, to your parliamentary group and to you in concrete terms, that you have raised this question, because it also allows, from the Department of Interior, to explain aspects of the disciplinary regime of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra not always known, and also to explain... – as you put examples of the procedure that is followed from the Division of Internal Affairs of the same Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra – to put examples, also, of the task that is carried out in an area always of everything necessary. Because, obviously, I thank him that..., I defend the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra ; you say: "Not only words, but facts. Fets, I think that in this legislature, if we take the first decision to take the new government in this year 2016, it is a source of contingency for the cos de Mossos d'Esquadra more than 11_million euros. This is done, and it is very tangible that help, for example, that there is a set of endowments that, the Squad Coast, will have them before other police bodies in the State. And that's no one's merit, but it's a continuing effort to try to resolve issues that were not always well-connected and that couldn't wait any longer. So, there have been, it is true, but it is also true that you are setting me up, Mr. Castel, a series of negits that I understand, because you must always be very respectful with individual rights, and obviously with a person who can be subject to an investigation with internal matters, who has all the rights and has all the presumption of innocence, but I also wanted to frame what we are talking about, because in this later year, for example, 2015, the total number of sanctioned agents was 71. This represents a 0.36_per_cent of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. Therefore, we are not talking about, quantitatively, an element that is very worrying because there are many sanctioned agents. Since the Cos exists, the total number of agents who have been sanctioned – after I can also mention it – is 1,075. And behind each sanction, obviously, there is a procedure that must be with all guarantees for the person who is subject to a procedure. And if they're not, we need to modify them and we need to improve them. So I'm grabbing his word, too. You said, "I think it's better, we're going with a positive spirit. I turn it back on this point and I am already advancing it that, obviously, the decree regulating the rules of the disciplinary regime is a decree, it is a regulation of year 85 and that, at that time, year 85, it was a decree that was adapted to the same case law of the moment, in the disciplinary field and in the field of special subjection relations – that, obviously, a police body is a special subjection relationship. But there's been a lot of things going on since '85 and, therefore, we need a background check. I'll give you an example: this past year, I was already a counselor myself, and we promoted a decree, on 179/2015, with which we approved a rule of procedure and disciplinary rules applicable to the bodies of the local police of Catalonia. This rule, which now has effects already and tries to give a more homogeneous treatment to which are the local police units of Catalonia, is an example of where we should walk. We need to make a new regulation of the disciplinary regime of the Squadron Mosses Cos, and we want to do so..., it would be our wish to do so in collaboration with parliamentary groups, to also make the necessary modification that we need to push from Law 10/1994, which is the Law of the Generality Police - Squadron Mosses. We have committed ourselves to bringing a bill of law to this Parliament, and I am already working with all parliamentary groups, this bill of law. It will also change the same disciplinary regime. And I also take a word from him, Mr. Castel, who is right..., it is certain that we are talking about a few cases– I gave him the jibe percentage of the agents who have been objecting, therefore, to a sanction this past year–, but I also give him the right in one thing: only there is a case– one – that someone might think that his rights have not been adequately guaranteed, that he would be able to study it and that he would be able to analyze it and that he would be able to correct it. But he also asks you not to assume that this is not the case. In the same way that we're open to listening to aspects... that you were saying if it's from an occult number. So, well, maybe you can study the way that, not through a mobile, but through a fixed unit of the Squadre Mosses Cos, you can realize this trick so that the receiver has the full assurance that who tricks it is actually an organ responsible for a commissioner or a division of what is the Squadre Mosses Cos. I can match that. I can also match in certain aspects that you specify about the defense, whether deleted or not. Other things are more questionable, because the Division of Internal Affairs carries a lot of work between the body, and it cannot, necessarily, adapt, when it quotes a person who is a public worker of the police of Catalonia..., go to see, therefore, if it goes well before or later a procedure. Citizenship also, on many occasions, requires us to be carried with the highest celerity, but obviously with the highest guarantees. I, from this point of view, would like to recall that the current decree, in its Article 21, Decree 183/85, regulates seven great principles governing disciplinary proceedings in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. And I want to repeat them because they are in the law; they are, in this case, in the regulation, but they are the consequence and complement of the same law, and they are: the principle of legality, the principle of impulse of offices, the principle of impartiality, the principle of agility, efficiency, advertising and contradiction. And after listing these seven principles, these were accompanied by five right-wing, five right-wing officers who at all times any agent of the Squad Coast must be guaranteed in the framework of their disciplinary proceedings. And we're talking about the right to the presumption of innocence, the right to information, the right to defence... and, therefore, in no case can we violate Article 24 of the Constitution, which you recognize – and you said before, when you said: "We can't violate it; obviously not – the right to effective judicial protection and the right to delayed assistance. And all these rights that any citizen obviously has also an agent of the Squad Cross. And as far as we can agree, if there is a dissonance..., that's why, also, in this spirit of improvement and collaboration that you offer and that I answer you that yes, you will have it on the part of the Department of Interior to analyze everything that can come to the conclusion that, in reality, after a bagatge and a round of this Regulation, you can answer the new legislation that we are already pushing. Also the right of hearing, which has any agent of the body, and the right in the sight of its consignor. That's right there, who's applying it, who? , the Division of Internal Affairs, and it does this division with a double charge, always: first task, control of police personnel, investigation of presumed illegal actions – this is the first task that the Division of Internal Affairs has – ; second task, the application of disciplinary sanctions that fail. To do this, the Internal Affairs Division has a set of assigned functions and has two large areas, the discipline area and the internal investigation area, and within these areas, obviously, there is all that is reserved investigations; the more complex, the internal investigation area, and all those who work there are subject– well know that the deputies who listen to us – at the highest professional reserve, cannot otherwise be the most professional reserve; until they have the obligation to sign a document committing to this professional reserve in the exercise of their functions. Professional reservation, impartiality, legality and guarantee of rights. This – and I finish now, Madam President – is the experience that permeates the rules, the rules that we obviously need to improve, of course, we need to reformulate, of course, and that is why we also count on all the parliamentary groups in this Parliament. All the more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.236.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Jean Castel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.237.0	Thank you, President. Look, counselor, you're talking about the big volume of work. I'm not going to go into the detail of the headline we're seeing today, that we also understand that from this department, according to what, and according to what, we can't be close to them or it's competence, but we'll let it go, huh? Because when we talk about a lot of things, we also want to talk about what certain departments and things are dedicated to us when we see headlines like what we saw today. I also want to thank you, as it is not in any other way, and I always say to you, both in the Committee on the Interior and here, in this House, what you use, this fortune to find solutions, that I thank you and applaud you, when you talk about the reversal, obviously, and we applaud you for the reversal in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, and how it cannot be in any other way. And in the Committee on the Interior how many times do we remember him as we have to adapt, improve, when we talk about endowments, the lack of effectiveness, the thanks, which we have neither comparative nor lune, with the need for reversal? Because the other day, when we could and had a chance to talk about another game – remember? – of all the Pla for fire-extinguishing, from the Interior they also say, right? , the percentage he was evoking was subminimous. To stay low, we have to prioritize and we also have to prioritize when we talk about how and in what way we invest and how and in what way we use presuppositional parties. Obviously, security is a value; it is a priced value that in many cases we don't see until we miss it. And it's obvious that we have to continue with this line of reversal. But returning to what he was asking us at this time, fixed, when you speak that the comparators..., I would like you to make comparative and dedicated, since the council, also to compare with other disciplinary systems of other police units. This deputy has done it, and I'm telling him that disciplinary rules are found in other police units in this country that, for example, the agent is leaving with a copy of what he said. Get it right, get it right, get it right, get it better. Counselor, we have the opportunity, and in the very Ple, to the motion following this inquiry, will have the opportunity, too, to take a step forward in what we are talking about improving and adapting. Miri, when we talk about the volume that the DAI manages, obviously you have given us a very small amount, because you use the comparison with the total volume of Mossos d'Esquadra, but then, in return, you give us another data that, based on this data, grinds it a little, when you start talking about how many have been shipped, how many agents have gone through the DAI... Just 'you know that the comparisons sometimes are not pleasant to visualize, aren't you? And less when we have a lot of data. We must be curious, we must apply the common sense and responsibility at all times. And we understand that, from his advice, what they can do is a great job, a great joint job, because, far from the party, that some use in this chamber repeatedly, we are for the best without party, they understand that it is all the parliamentary groups of this chamber, as I said before, that it is the legislative power, and you, as the government, the executed power; that is, they understand that there is no color here; there is no party, a parliamentary group, that goes through this situation. What is our duty, obligation and responsibility is to put in place the appropriate measures to improve a system that we have after we have people, we have citizens who very honestly develop a task such as that of autonomous police and squadron movement, and it is a waste, as I said in my first intervention, that this institution, that it is this consultancy of what you are advising and that it is this whole chamber that works together with value, that is to give guarantees to the phone rights of our agents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.238.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.239.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Member, it is true that statistics, comparative data, can always lead to situations that do not reflect what really happens. I am afraid that this may also have happened with people who have legitimately been able to inform him of how a disciplinary dispatcher is being processed, because it is true that people are passing through DAI that after they are not subject to any type of sanction or dispatch, but it is that when a confidential information is made, what is done is precisely to analyze before it can or does not open a dispatcher to that person. And, therefore, the objective is guaranteed. It will do better or worse, but I have confidence in the people who are in front of the Squad's Cos de Mossos. And I take this opportunity, because I see the general manager, Mr. Albert Batlle, in the gallery, and we have confidence in how things are done globally. Obviously, there will always be concrete situations that the counselor will not share, but that will form part of the same operating body, and that possibly the counselor would say: "So I would have made it different. But it is also not a matter of the director or the councillor saying how things are to be done in the internal area of a police force that has its professional criteria, and the Squadron's Squadron's Squadron's Squadron's Squadron's Squadron's Squadron's Squadron's Squadron has them. And the evidence is that there are no complaints that the guarantees in which this procedure is given have not been given, with the confidential information that you have given me; but if that is so, then we can also contrast it to the length of the motion. But what I wanted to carry out is that a job has been done that is not always valued but that is absolutely necessary. We cannot exercise the police function, no police can exercise its function in guarantees of a democratic state of law if it does not have the necessary control of a disciplinary action in those cases – which, as we have seen, are very few, overall are very few – in which someone may have committed an action that deserves this disciplinary action, sometimes criminal. Because, in all the history of the Squadron Seams, 1,575 faults have been imposed; of these, a 22_per_cent, 345, are read, and if we look at the casuistic are not aspects that we can say that they do..., they are lacking in punctuality, aspects, sometimes, that have not been cared for in the conservation of locals or materials; it is not important; 1,126 are heavy, it is 71_per_cent, and if we look at what is behind the heavy faults, in their great majority there are many aspects at times of what is considered to be disobedience or incomplete orders rebuds of their superiors – because, obviously, a police thing is a hierarchical thing, there are some commands that are not at all, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth. , because we are talking, in the end, of 1,126 in all the history of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, but when it is given they must have an obvious answer from a disciplinary point of view. And there are a hundred and three very heavy, and between these hundred and three very heavy, obviously, sometimes we have had situations, so, of team movements in a situation of drunkenness, under the effects of drugs or that have eaten other types of crimes, and, obviously, that are..., and some of them, too, are, but there are, thirteen cases of separation from service and twenty-seven cases of loss of function, which is certainly a type that is practically not even good now, but has been given at certain times, and, therefore, it is in the legislation that I commit, as I advise, to open it to parliamentary groups in the future draft of the law so that we can enter it. But think, and in this I do want to insist again, think that overall the work that is done is done correctly, in a positive sense, in a professional sense. And, therefore, what concrete situations can there be? Analyze them, correct them. But the defense of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is also in this case a defense of its Division of Internal Affairs and of the good professionals who have been there. All the more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-29-1901.240.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. MPs, MPs, many thanks. Good evening. And they suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine.
