ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to all of you. [[Project of the Law of the Statistical Pla of Catalonia 2017-2020 and of modification of the Law 23/1998, of the 30 of December, of the statistics of Catalonia]] [[200-00005/11]] The sixth item on the agenda is: debate and vote on the committee's opinion on the Catalan Statistical Plas Act 2017-2020 and amending Law 23/1998, of 30 December, of Catalonia's statistics. In accordance with Rules 118.5 and 121.1 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Oriol Amat, who has been appointed rapporteur, has the word to present the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.2.0	Thank you, very honorable President. I was just checking to see if there were any councillors... deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. I also greet the director of the Institute of Statistics of Catalonia, Dr. Frederic Udina, and the team, also, of the Idescat. I'll make a very brief intervention as a layer of the law. Simply, in the first place remember that I understand that it is the first law we pass in this legislature, I read with complete processing, eh? – with complete processing; we have not made a single reading, we have not made others – with complete processing. So, so, it's a great day. Besides, it's also a great day because today is our company's birthday, the... as if there isn't, for the moment not the happiness, because, if not, I'll put it in evidence; already, if you see it, then I'll congratulate you. Well, just a very short intervention to make some thanks. In the first place, to the different components of the weighting of the different groups that have participated in the work. It was a pleasure working with them. From the first day we proposed, therefore, to do the best and to do the best possible to make a better country and, therefore, a thank you to all of them. He also wanted to thank Idescat – his director, but also Idescat staff – and the Department of Economics, Mr. David Camps, Montse Bernades and other companies who have helped us a lot in preparing for the processing of this law. He also wanted to thank the services of the Parliament, among them the Iletrat Ferran Domínguez and the language councilwoman Marta Payà, to highlight some of them. They've all worked very well, they've helped us a lot. It's his job, but I think they did it very well, and so I wanted to highlight it. He also wanted to highlight the work of Jordi Font. At one of the meetings, so, we had all a few summaries of what the different groups were doing and so there was one person behind preparing this job very well. I wanted to highlight her. And just, finally, saying that the different groups prepared, they formulated 45 papers. Of these 45, 27 have been accepted or traded. There's only 18 left, which is who we're voting for today. And finally, simply to say that it is a luxury, a privilege, to be able to participate in the processing of a law and to work colza with companies of different parties, with very different origins and destinations, but that we can work together, do many things and, therefore, is an example of everything that can be done when there is good will. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.3.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Amat. Next, we turn to the intervention of the parliamentary groups in defence of the papers presented. Later, the other parliamentary groups will intervene to position themselves on the text. In the first place, for the defense of the papers presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mr Alfonso Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.4.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, today more than seven months ago the procedure for approving the Statistical Plan of Catalonia began. On that day, Councillor Oriol Junqueras, who is not with us today, told us about updating the statistical plan as it had always been done every four years, and this time came late. Let's see what it means to update for the advisor. From Ciutadans we have tabled amendments to the text, always thinking of an exemplary service for citizens, which fulfils its task and is totally depoliticised. One of the points we have put on the table is to express the need for collaboration with the National Institute of Statistics and other public administrations of Spain in a common line of work to properly develop the respective statistical plans and activities. I would remind you that Eurostat envisages cooperation between entities of the same country, since at the point of union with Eurostat it is the national statistical entity, in this case the National Institute of Statistics is the point of union with the rest of Europe. Therefore, do not disconnect from Europe. Another group of amendments we have tabled focus on the privacy of data for all Catalans; we want Idescat's access to personal data to be used exclusively for statistical purposes. This so simple, so logical, so common sense, was rejected in the presentation of the plan, they want to eliminate it. Why does the Idescat want the data but to produce statistics? What do you want to do with the personal data of all Catalans? It is not logical and normal for a statistical institute to use data to produce statistics: it must be so. The personal data of all Catalans must be as secure as possible. His privacy is at stake. In the amendment of the law, our proposal to add processing under the Data Protection Act has not been accepted. Listen, there should be no doubt about providing security and confidence to citizens by adding our amendment, where we propose that the Statistics Act be in line with the current legal order without doubt and in a clear manner. And not only that, but they also want to allow data to be transferred to third parties without the express consent of citizens, which totally violates the Data Protection Act. I ask you again: what do you want to do with the personal data of Catalans? Because you don't want to make third-party access requirements either. We see a need for a control mechanism for entities accessing such data. We have proposed that minimum security requirements be met to access the data. One: let them indicate the purpose of obtaining the data and what they want them for. Two: that the data are expressly anonymized. Three: to communicate to people, to citizens, who are using their data; for what purpose and for what treatment. You did not want to accept these control measures that we have proposed to you. Another important point, which from Ciutadans we believe must be renewed towards modernity and transparency, is the appointment of the Governing Board, and in particular the leadership of the Idescat. Surprisingly, no group supported Ciutadans' proposal and preferred to continue choosing the director of the Idescat by the typing method. Only Ciutadans proposed a different way to choose the address, which is nothing more or less than by contest. Since Ciutadans we have been responsible and wanted to provide the Idescat with transparency and depoliticized management, thus being really an institute of autonomous statistics. On the appointment of Director of the Idescat, I summarize our three main proposals. First: a contest open to all citizens, where they have knowledge and experience and not how many friends they have in Parliament. Two: that in order to present you have at least fifteen years of experience as a professional in statistics, mathematics or probability. And three: that, of course, he is not affiliated with any political party or association. In short, we want to have statistical professionals at the head of institutions such as the Idescat, and not political professionals through typing appointments. Instead of having statisticians in charge, you prefer yours. At the Board of Governors of the Idescat, a body that had to be autonomous in order not to question the statistics of Catalonia, we have the Councillor Junqueras, we have Mr Josep Maria Jové and Pere Aragonès : all of Esquerra Republicana. On the board, of six members, it is you three members of the Republican Left of Catalonia who have absolute control of the institution. Mr Junqueras, we do not like the Idescat being questioned for having politicians in charge. We believe that it should be experts who should lead the institution, not friends or party partners. We want transparency in the Idescat. There is currently a huge list of politicians within the Idescat Governing Council, within the Catalan Statistical Council, within the Presidency and Vice-President. Mr Junqueras, how much do all Catalans spend on this political structure? I would like to know whether political interference in institutes that should be autonomous also costs us money and quantify it. And in order to finish my speech, our group requested an opinion from the Council of State Guarantees of Catalonia denouncing all these facts that I have told you and others of legal and very technical calibre, in order to shed light on our suspicions, and with the opinion in hand we can assure the following in two points. One: that this Statistics Act is in accordance with the Statute and the Constitution as long as it respects the whole legal system and especially the data protection regulations. And thanks to Ciutadans it should be clear to you that anything you do must do according to the law and not skipping it. Two: that, although the Government of the Generalitat has presented this rule as a standard of adaptation to the European Union in the field of statistics, it is not directly applicable, because the Idescat is not a national statistical body of a Member State of the European Union, so you take from Europe what interests you and the appointment of the Director of the Idescat want to continue to do so. Europe does not like the way to choose the direction of the Idescat. You want to disguise the Idescat with European flags, but the only flag you carry is that of your party. It is another of those half-truths that tell us; because to sell it we are very European, very modern, but you really remain the same. The 3% government, of the capitalism of friends, of the "neverendum. I say this to you because the European Union demands that the body be autonomous, which was only wanted by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group; because neither the PSC, nor the PP, nor Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, nor CUP, nor of course you have wanted a democratic election process. Everyone voted against in the paper. You have used this statistical plan as an excuse to leave the door open to the millions of personal data of all Catalans and continue to have the possibility to place your own in the governing bodies. This plan has always been simply a renewal according to the needs of the moment, both for requirements at the autonomous, state and European level, which make necessary modifications to the text in order to adapt and not to be in line with Europe. At first I told him that we would see his way of updating the statistical plan, and we have seen that his formula is to continue as usual, violating the legal system and putting politicians in positions of responsibility. Mr Junqueras, we ask you to reflect on the text presented. We don't want any more political chiringuits, no more opacity, no more smoke. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.5.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Next, to defend the slogan of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.6.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, Madam President. I must tell you sincerely that I believe that this project of statistics returns to the plenary in a few conditions infinitely better than the ones that he submetre with the debate of totality. I think we have done a good job and I feel proud to have participated, and I would like to thank expressly, as I did at the committee, the work and above all the attitude of the rapporteur, Oriol Amat. I think it's helped us a lot to get the text to come out better of how it came in. And I have to say, if we haven't been able to finish polishing everything and if there hasn't been a total deal, it wasn't due to a lack of effort on its part. And here I would like to subtmetre to the consideration of the chamber an element of global reflection, right? , with this law and with others. We have noticed in the process of this law something that is frequent and is that on occasions it is not the legislature that controls the execution, but the execution that controls the legislature and ends up giving instructions to the majority group, and tells it what it can and cannot do. I can hear it, that it is true that when the group that supports the government's input is governed, but not that the roles and functions are interspersed. That said, that you do not get, in absolute terms, the positive value of the work that has been done, I think it has been very obvious that this project has been very marked for the Idecat and its leaders. Even some of the things that haven't finally been solved, I honestly believe they have a certain sense of ownership of the Idescat leaders. And I say it in the best sense of the term. It is normal: someone who has built, fathered, cared for, pampered, developed the Idescat, therefore, has a way of hearing 'the defense until the last consequences. But sometimes you'd have to let visions come in from the outside. But, go on, I insist, it's not a criticism; in any case, it's an appreciation that I'm sure the current leaders of the Idescat do because they feel something with a lot of pride, of their own, from this point of view, and I honestly believe that it can be valued in this sense, because there are many. This is why we will keep our papers, especially those that have an objective that we have shared with the CUP, curiously, without having agreed, without having seen them, that it is to open the window, basically, of using the statistical system of Catalonia because it was not strictly the Idescat that I could develop. I would also like to refer to the observations made by the Ciutadans Group and the request for the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees. You see, we don't share the reasons, absolutely, and I will try to explain it, even though we obviously respect the right of this group to bring it to the Board of State Guarantees, because that's why it exists, from that perspective. I begin by saying that, in relation to some of the political and legislative criticisms of the bill made by Ciutadans, we share them. That is to say, we believe, for example, that one of the shortcomings of this draft law should never have produced: the fact, for example, that it takes advantage of the preparation of the Statistical Plan of Catalonia, which is a point of view, for a few years, to make legislative changes to the Law of Statistics, which possibly required an area of debate, in the measure that it is structural. However, it goes without saying that this is a political vice and a legislative technical problem that does not allow it to blame questions of unconstitutionality or of being contrary to the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, as I believe the opinion of the Board of State Guarantees has very well said. In any case, it means that in this sense, too, the question of the question is positive, because, thanks to the efforts and the work very well done – which has already been highlighted by Oriol Amat – who have held the letters and the services of the Parliament, we have been able to minimize this issue. Because at the beginning we came up with this bill with a whole revolution, barricaded between what were reforms of the Law of Statistics and what was the modification of the statistical plan. And they have suggested, and we have accepted, to separate it, with which we have a draft law which, although it has two objectives, differs quite clearly... and, therefore, the risks of legal uncertainty that always involve these technical ones, therefore, have disappeared. All the way, let me tell you something. If some of us here – some of whom, moreover, are part of the Government – criticise this when the Spanish Government does it, I think it's just to criticise it too – when the Catalan Government does it, that unfortunately, in this sense, has seized the worst vices of Spanish parliamentarianism from this perspective. And that's not to mention the issue of legal security, which is a basic aspect of a parliamentary function. Another aspect to highlight is what has to do with the issue of the governing organs of the Idescat. You see, we share the concern about which are the mechanisms of choice of the bodies, the other bodies of the government, of these and of all, and I believe that this country has not been resolved. A server would be pleased to be able to live in a country where the high offices of the Government have a professional designation and can survive different governments; at times we learn some administrations like French in this sense. Among other things, why would this give us much more solvency, because if complicated are changes of constant policies and a certain Adamist attitude when the counselors come in, clearly, if in the accounts of having fifteen Adams advisors and advisors you have sixty Adams general directors, who believe that the world begins when they arrive, so it makes it very difficult..., and generates to the Public Administration something that we have seen, that is the Penelope effect, isn't it? : Everyone wants to discover the world from the moment he gets up and lowers the performance of those who have gone before, even though they are from their own party. So, we share, I share this criticism, but here we have to say that the mechanism that we are subject to today's consideration of this chamber, of the name, so it is a mechanism that fosters clientelism, the lack of political independence or the problem of data control in this country, I think it is a certain exaggeration, and so we have made it known to the Ciutadans Group. A servant is one of those who believes that there is no law in the world that is able, just as it is law, to guarantee neither the independence of the functions that are named nor much less honesty; this is not resolved through law. Legislation can help, it can help, but legislation does not. And we have very recent examples of the history of this country: we have members of the General Council of the Judiciary proposed in the name of Convergence and Union, magistrates who have ended up in prison, and were elected with a system supposedly, say, with guarantees; we have, two days ago, the incident that we have to live in this chamber around the exit of the Anti-Fraud Office, with a process that theoretically is a process that has all the mechanism of guarantees, of control, of not knowing what, and, in turn, what has happened? Well, then, what has happened is that there are things that can only solve the same dignity as the chosen professional. And in this sense we believe that the text up here frankly improved. Why did you go up in the best possible way? Because... I don't know if the competition mechanism or the suit could improve, but I think the text that is ultimately considered has some basic elements. From the outset, it is clear to us that the director of the Idescat must have a professional profile, and this is important. This is a valuation that the government will make, which is ultimately an organ that relies on the joint administration. But we have proposed and we have succeeded, and I believe that these are the points that we have managed to place the Catalonian Group Yes, it is possible, two important things: a single mandate and, moreover, that the dismissal of the director of the Idescat does not follow a thing of free disposition of the government, but that it is deeply taxed for reasons of professional nature. I believe that with these conditions we guarantee that whoever wants to be professional and independent of the government can be, and whoever doesn't want to be won't be, we make the law we make, from that perspective. Then, in this sense, I, planting and accepting that perhaps we could have improved this theme, feel satisfied with this element of dialogue and improvement that we have been able to establish and that gives results..., mechanisms of more guarantees around the choice of the direction of the Idescat. By the way, let me tell you something. I don't know if you've fixed yourself, that's funny, right? , but the basis of the advice of the Council of State Guarantees, to save this law, draws more from the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, this court that some have decided to have voted in this Parliament than we recognize it, right? Some irony, though, goes by, sometimes life has these things. I end up with a question that I think is important. I honestly believe that it cannot be said that with the text we have today there are no data protection mechanisms, and less can it be said that there is a risk of controlling data from the citizens of Catalonia. It is not possible to say, among other things, first, because, as everyone knows, and we have discussed it a lot at the moment, the Idescat works with statistical archives, does not work with personal archives from this perspective; second, because, moreover, I believe that the general rules of data protection sufficiently protect these issues. Go, as I said, we are satisfied with the task we have done. We want to thank the company again, my friend Oriol Loved all the process it has done, which has made it, sincerely, easier our work. And we'll keep our papers in the vote, basically because it's clear that there's a better opportunity, and the next time a law of this nature comes to the plenary, so someone can rescue them, in case they can improve this text. But, in any case, congratulated on the task, and above all, as I know it is also one of the last things the current director of the Idescat does, to thank him for the services he has lent to the country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.7.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Coscubiala. Then, in order to defend the emena presented for the Popular Group of Catalonia, has the words of Mr. Juan Milián. [[Relieving of sight and laughter. Pause.]] Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.8.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, before anything else, like the companies that preceded me, therefore, I would like to give the thanks to the electorate and to the parliamentary services, who have helped us to improve our work, and I would also like to give the thanks to the Lord, to the deputy Oriol Amat, and congratulate him on the efficient work he has done as rapporteur of the Project of the Law of the Statistical Plais and of the modification of the Law of Statistics of Catalonia. He has done a good job, professor; he has not only shown a good disposition, a good predisposition to the dialect, without harm, which we sometimes find to be lacking in Catalan politics, but, at last, he has sometimes persecuted us to have our opinion and to do better with this bill. I would also like to thank another of my teachers, Mr. Frederic Udina, director of the Idescat, from whom I have had the chance to learn not only at Pompeu Fabra, but also at the Centre d'Etudes d'Opinion and now at the Parliament, with this law that directly pours on his work. It may be said that Mr. Udina also gathered kindly, from the very first moment, with those who set out the bill to explain to us the changes of the Statistical Pla and answer any doubts. Well, as well as the esteem for the two teachers, I can't say we're voting for the whole statistical board and the law change. We will do so for the majority of its members, but we will also vote in favour of some of the papers presented; among others, obviously from the People's Party. We've kept two things alive that we've presented and that we haven't been accepted for questioning. The two deal with the same, the data protection. That's why I'm sure I won't run out of time, but I'd like to do some evaluations. This is a project approved twice for the Government of the Generality, since approval, the April of the past year, expired when the chamber was dissolved. The last statistical Pla, the fifth, expired in 2014; therefore, the Idescat is working with an extended plan, with an ancient plan. This is not too hard; it would be worse, therefore, to work with extended assumptions. In fact, it's happened with other plans, since it's like a tradition that every plan comes two years after the previous one. In any case, certain continuity in the work of the Idescat is positive, because the data with which we work does not only allow us to see a picture of the social and economic reality of Catalonia, but also allows us to see the film, right? , its evolution. And this is only possible if it has continued, if the data are comparable any year later. In this same line, the statisticians must also be comparable with those who are publicised to other autonomy, to the State or European institutions. Nevertheless, it is also positive that the statistical plans have some evolution, as has a society that has evolved noticeably in the last few years. There are new technologies, new needs, new realities... in short, realities that we need to measure. It is necessary to measure, it is fundamental in politics; more today, with a reality every time more complex and with a policy that, much as some deny, every time affects more parts of our daily life. It is essential for public policies to know social and economic reality. Getting data, processing it, analyzing it, it has a price, it is certain, it has a price; a price that is not only low, but only being a stock of public resources, because it allows us to work on a basis of solid knowledge, to avoid events, that sometimes have a much higher cost than a good analysis, and to avoid harms, that many times are the source of populism, of those that exaggerate the denial of our society and our economy, with the sole objective of being powerless and, then, managing it detracting from public resources and causing the evil that they intend to avoid. So, statistics is a good weapon against populism and, therefore, deserves all my respect. In fact, reality is the best weapon against populism, and it is statistics that allows us to know better about this reality, that you do not harm them. After the statistics, the fredor of numbers, there are people and there is a social and economic reality in Catalonia that is plural and changing. And it's a reality that needs to be known to do our job well, to legislate and push public policies and to do it rigorously. We therefore welcome the fact that one of the general objectives of the plan is to promote an increase in the use of statistical information for scientific research purposes, research and evaluation of public policies; also, obviously, for private initiates. All the way, we have to go with it, because this debate is not as technical as anyone might think a priori. Changes are introduced to the regulation of the governing bodies of the Idescat, access, use and integration of the registers administered by the Generality, the use of administrative information for the realization of the statistics of interest of the Generality, the dissemination of statistical results, the creation and regulation of the register of statistical files or access to confidential data. It could be purely technical questions, but it may take a certain political flight in a context like the present, in a context where the Government of the Generality tells us that it intends to make a referendum of secession and says that it will do so or do so, violating legality, and therefore democracy, and putting at risk individual freedoms and individual rights. In this context, it is logical that, from the democratic opposition, we look at any nationalist government project affecting privacy and confidential data. Our objective, with the papers presented, is, of course, the protection of personal data. We are aware that there is a standard mark, but we believe that it must be made clear that this mark of protection is explicitly in statistical activities. We have the Organic Law 15/1999, on the protection of personal data, which implemented European Directive 95/46; a directive which will be repealed in two years' time, under the European Union Regulation 2016/679, on the protection of data of physical persons, for which it deals with the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data, which will harmonise the level of protection throughout the European Union. Also, the Ciutadans Group, and I believe that with good criteria, with a prudence criterion, therefore, requested an opinion from the Council of State Guarantees and questioned the constitutionality and the statutoriness of some articles. It did so on articles that affect the structure of the Idescat, because they can erode principles of professional independence, impartiality and objectivity, but also on a whole series of articles that could facilitate the violation of the right to family and personal privacy. That is to say that the Guarantee Board has unanimously ruled that the draft is in line with both the Constitution and the Statute; but the fact that, for example, Article 23 remains constitutional in the sense that the Government has full discretion to designate who it wants for the director of the Idescat does not go so far as we believe that it could be designated in a way that guarantees better its independence, professionalism and objectivity. Or the fact that those articles that affect the right to privacy are considered constitutional does not mean that we consider guarantees sufficient from the People's Party. That is why we have tabled a couple of issues in Article 6 and 11 in this respect. In Article 6, which is Rule 9, we want to make it clear that the information coming from archives and administrative records will be incorporated in the statistics of interest of the Generality. And here's our addition: "And it will always be and, in any case, complimenting the legislation on the protection of personal data. And in the same line, item 17, which affects Article 11, we ask that if the Idescat accesses the archives and administrative records of the departments of the Generalitat, do so with the utmost confidentiality and respect, once again, the legislation on data protection. These are documents which are in line with the request for an opinion of the Guarantee Board. We have already told them that we will vote in favour of all their issues, those of Ciutadans, which facilitate the protection of personal data. Let us hope that you will also vote in favour of ours. I'm sure that's what it will be, that's what it was at the committee. We will also vote in favour of papers from other parliamentary groups, not just Ciutadans, as well as some of the papers from Catalonia Yes it is Pot. I won't mention them all either, there's plenty of them, and while I didn't want to run out of time, I think I'm running out. Finally, to say that the opinion says, literally, "that there is nothing I can interpret as meaning that, in the implementation of the Catalonian Statistical Platform, the processing of personal data is not properly and fully developed in accordance with the fundamental right to the protection of citizens' data guaranteed by the organic legislation, to which I referred earlier. But, of course, as the great Matías Prats would say, "Let me insist: the context is what it is and the statements of the government are what they are. And here is a full route that can put in danger the intimacy of Catalans with the improper use of personal data. And, therefore, there are few legal precautions, and they ask all groups to support our reviews. Finally, the opinion of the Guarantee Board recommends a clarification to the wording so as not to create confusion and which is deleted from Article 12.2 the expression'whenever possible. Well, we agree, we signed this statement. All right, all right, Well, give thanks a little more to Mr. Amat, Mr. Udina, and to all those who have made it possible, therefore, that this text has improved during the questioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.9.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Milián. Next, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.10.0	Good morning. Thank you very much. I see that, in the end, there are more people interested in the Statistical Pla than in the morning. We are either surprised or told that a little bit of this has ended up being the first law, as has been said, that we approve in this legislature after all a normal process. Because, despite the fact that we are voting for it and we are supporting it and we have given support to the handling of this law, we do understand that it is a law that is being strictly and sufficiently addressed in the current market and does not expect that at some point we will need to develop a statistical system that goes much further, that addresses much more clearly than we have done so far. Why in the background, isn't it? , in a democratic state it is necessary to know which is the economic, social and environmental reality of the territory and the population on which it operates, and to exercise the accountability before the citizenry. And, therefore, we believe that here it is short. In fact, in some of the papers that we presented together with..., or very similar to Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, what we valued was that it was all very much based on research and people – and, therefore, as at least we have improved a little – in the reporting and capacity of the citizenry, too, to know and go beyond research, but also the assessment of public policies and, above all, of public policy planning. Because that's also what the statistics have to do or it has to help to do the statistics. And that's what the bill that got here didn't do, and we got a little better. Because the citizens, too, for their band, must be able to have elements to assess government action, and that is why it also serves or can serve the Idescat and statistics in general. And one last thought, before I went into some of the things that came out, because I didn't want to spend all the time. Important to take into account and preserve: statistics must be regarded as a public good, and, therefore, must form part of the democratic social contract between governments, citizens and social agents. And that is why it is necessary that we do not focus on the objectives of either the Idescat or the official statistics of Catalonia in search. I repeat, it is to say: this is important, and this is one of the things that we have done in this process. Beyond that, some of the things that have been said and that we have already said on the question: I think that there is – and, in fact, intended – a confusion between statistical secrecy and data protection. This obsession with the Data Protection Law... the statistical secret is that statistics is a science, has..., or so, there is the statistical secret linked. We don't sweep it with data protection and we don't sweep it with full routes and I don't know what! That is to say, the statistical secret is full of route or nothing, it has nothing to do with one thing or another, and linking it constantly with the Data Protection Law is to discredit the statistical secret and to discredit the statistics, not, in any case, the full of route. So don't sweep things, because whoever they're doing a weak favor is yours too, because they end up losing credibility. And then, to address the need for an autonomous body with the choice of direction to the autonomous bodies... They are more autonomous than the direction of the body; and an organization can be autonomous and not politically independent, and an organization cannot be autonomous and be politically independent. Therefore, in these things it is necessary to go with account. And, finally, a reflection that Mr Coscubala said, which we totally share: the feeling that at some point more than being a legislature, we acted a little in the dictate of the government and the current direction of the Idescat, and that, therefore, here we would have to watch a little, despite the fact that we have finally come to an understanding, right? , the feeling that if Parliament is the legislature it must be able to legislate, consultant whom you consider, but autonomously legislate. Therefore, to say that we, as we have said to the principle, do give support to this law, they understand that, for us, it is short or excessively limited, and therefore that it is a lost opportunity, that means that from here to a few months we will have to review and address a debate on the official statistics of the country; that we will give support, as we have already done to the committee, to the issues that Catalonia has maintained Yes, it is possible, and that we maintain one, with this will that we believe we should expand and approach the official statistics with a broader look. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.11.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. Then, in order to fix his position, the words of Mr Óscar Ordeig, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.12.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Councillor, Members, Members, Director of the Idescat, Members of the Government..., first of all, to aggravate to Congressman Oriol Love the good iron, the transactions, the dynamic of work of this poenence. I also start with some of the criticisms that have been made. First of all, it's so important to know how to make opposition and know how to select those critical themes, huh? Like the opposition itself. Therefore, we will support the opinion, the technical papers that have been made, for a very simple question, and it is that we went two years late to make the Law Project of the Statistical Pla for the period 2017-2020. I've done two years before, so we had to do it. And, therefore, that, so much for the totality that we could see, as also the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, that it has said that it is complete with the Statute of autonomy, that it holds us exclusive competences in the matter of statistics... Therefore, surely for this reason we have all found ourselves, because the competitions, in this case, we already have them, are clear, and more so we need to address this bill. Twenty-seven transactions, therefore, have been accepted by the Socialist Group. I just want to add an element, too, political to everything that has already been commented on. In many of the things we can be in favour of; we are not in agreement with all the values that we are doing with respect to whether or not it completes data protection, whether it completes or does not complete existing legislation. It's obvious that there is, as it was in the previous periods, and so, in this sense, I think the reviews are a little out of place. Claim the import of a statistical, public and quality system in any minimally advanced society. We believe that it is important..., and that it has the necessary resources, that this has not been discussed: that it is necessary to recover the resources that it had before the crisis, precisely in order to be able to make public policies, to be able to assess what is happening at our house. There is a lot of change for the economic crisis, there is a lot of change for globalisation, a lot of change – a lot of change – that we need to keep them very clear. Here we discuss: is there poor or is there no poor? , social cohesion, territorial cohesion, democratic movements, the labour market, movements..., training, access to information and communication technologies..., what is happening. So, I think that here we have to have the necessary resources, the necessary tools, the production, the dissemination of statistical data, so that we can assess what we are doing here, what we are doing here, what is happening in the country, what companies are doing, what families are doing, what public institutions are doing to ensure that we have a better society. And, therefore, that means more and better resources; that means more and better data, and sometimes we have also commented, sometimes, that what we need is also some data, to update them before, to have aggregates..., to add a little more reliable of some very important themes. From here, we are obviously in favour of collaboration, cooperation between different entities. It has to be done more and it has to be done better, so that the great amount of data that is produced, so, it is treatin, and obviously it is the Idescat, obviously it is from the Generality that it is possible..., well, from the Idescat that it is possible to do this treatment. We had to adapt to European legislation; we had to specify on the selection criteria of the Director of the Idescat, who is selected by criteria of competence; guarantee the autonomy of the Idescat, that tea, obviously; guarantee not to each article, but there is a need to complement the Law of Data Protection, which has already been done, which has already been said during the transactions, and therefore that it is sufficiently guaranteed, and therefore we have to make all these changes that took time on the table. We've also made an adaptation, we've done a..., a little thought from the Board of Guarantees Statutes and its report; therefore, we've also signed it, it seems good to us, and what we do want, therefore, obviously, is to claim, to end, therefore, that a public system of quality, with the necessary resources, that we believe in it, that we use it, and that then, obviously, we can make public debates with objective, clear facts, about what's going on in Catalonia, huh? more than talking about the opinions of cadascun. Many thanks, President, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.13.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Ordeig. Next, has the word Lord Oriol Amat, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.14.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, counsel, welcome again to all, deputies and deputies, and public, and director of the Idescat and Idescat staff. Well, four comments. The first is: in some of the interventions, reference has been made to good practices in the statistical field of the European Commission. Meanwhile, I looked at it again – I had read it many months ago – and then there was some indication that we were going to be vulnerable or not following... I would ask, exactly, what is the part that we are not following. I was reminding myself, therefore, how the director's appointment works – in short, all the parts that have been said – the issue of data protection. Where's the part we don't follow? The purpose of this pose and of this law was to follow all the indications of the code of practical good. Then, the subject of the director's nomination. In the first blurs there was another director's naming system. There were-there were good contributions, both on behalf of Catalonia Yes it's Pot as part of the CUP, and then we tried to get to a point where it was a system in which everyone felt comfortable. I think it is innovative, in ours, in Catalonia, the nomination for six years and not renewable, and with some characteristics, such as the non-binding opinion, but the opinion of the Statistical Council. I think it's an innovative system. Sometimes someone's laying the bean before the wound. I understand that at Idescat, which has been working for many years, there has been no problem with professional competence themes, and everything... Anyway, with these better ones that we have introduced, it will be a question to see if it actually works better and maybe it can be transferred to other similar ones. The deputy of Ciutadans deia, told the honourable vice president, therefore, that, lastly, the reviewers, their plans with regard to this law. I've been listening to the proposals you've made. He said, for example, that the director of the Institute of Statistics should not be affiliated with any association. Then they won't find anyone who has professional competence to do this job. I'm thinking not only about the current director but about previous directors. The directors of the INE in Spain, therefore, most are academics or are members of associations of economy, statistics, etc. Well, then, about that, to finish this first point, it just came to me at the top of a phrase in Mossén Ballarín, dead a while ago, that said that life isn't how they give it to you, just how you take it, huh? I think here... I think you've read things that aren't what this law says. But, well, it's an impression. I told the deputy, good friend Alfonso, of Ciutadans. Well, second point. You wanted to value the Idescat, huh? I did it the first day, when the first vote on this bill came. The Idescat works with a presumption of 8_million. Those who use the data of the Idescat for multiple reasons, therefore, know the quality of the work it does, and with a lot of migrating resources. Simply, to put it a reference, the equivalent institute of the Basque Country, instead of a presumption of 8_millions, tea of 12, eh? From 8 to 12, therefore, they are a lot of money, and therefore, I would like to take advantage of this work which is very useful, very dignified and inclusive, after all the details that have been made, so it has kept the level of all the pocket it does. Well, I turn to the third point, referring to a comment that the good friend, MP Ordeig, has also made, remembering... In fact, this is a law that began to prepare for 2013, huh? 2013 and, finally, therefore, today is expected to be approved, right? , with all the security. Well, then, this comment made by Congressman Ordeig reminded me that in the last few months, while we were going through the law, I was looking at..., how he saw that it was all very nice, very rough, very rough, very long, many..., so, as they did the same, the same type of law, in other countries, and, really, with much less, with much shorter terms, with much shorter terms, with little delays, with girls voting in a different way, huh? Just to give an example, in many of the countries that I have seen, including the European Parliament, in the place of iron, as in the Catalan Parliament, the Parliament of Catalonia, which we are voting..., we will now vote a few minutes from now, some Members will come running to vote, after leaving, so what they do is to accumulate the votes in a concrete hour of the day and, therefore, humbly [[some applause]] So I would suggest to the President of Parliament and the Bureau that, if they think it appropriate, I review the way we do things in this Parliament, to see if there is room for improvement, comparing it with other countries. Well, that was the third point. And in this third point I also wanted to remind you that when we look at the position that Spain and Catalonia are at the level of competitiveness at world level, so we are very bad – we are very bad – and one of the reasons is how we manage time, terms, bureaucratic procedures. And what I've been able to prove with this law is that, compared to other countries, we have better camps. And here I'm sure we can all agree very much. I pass to the fourth point, which, in the same way as I had already given one of freda, therefore, one of heat. This one has 11 pages. The previous law, the previous plan, it was 60, huh? Then, this, I think, has 11 pages, but let's not forget what this law has to do, it's also worth putting it in value. And with this he reminded me of that phrase, which I'm sure many of you must remember, from Thomas Moro, to the new Utopia, eh? When he was talking about The Republic of Plato and also about the country that Thomas Moro imagined, he said, "Utopia has a lot because the laws are few and well applied. That's a little bit. [[some applause]] He reminded me that we have a law, so we'll do a law with 11 pages. If these 11 pages have everything to say that we have done a better job than not doing a similar law with 60 pages. Well, I end up with the most important thing, which is congratulations in Ferran Civit, which is thirty-nine years ago today. [[Rialles. Greetings.]] Well, thank you all very much. Madam President, deputies, deputies, good morning. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.15.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Amat. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. [[Long break. Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.16.0	Yeah. To ask for a separate vote from one of the points of the voting pattern we have, which have passed us. Miri...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.17.0	What do you got?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.18.0	... in the second page, the third paragraph, which says: "The legislative technical papers 2, 3 and 4 are now being put to the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.19.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.20.0	These three points, separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.21.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.22.0	Okay? All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.23.0	All right, then. Before we begin with the votes, I must say that the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - the Constituent Creed has withdrawn items 27 and 30. In the first place, we shall proceed to the vote on the reserved items. Let's vote on items 5, 17, 26, 36 and 42. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 30 votes in favour, 92 against and no abstentions. Next, items 9, 12, 13 and 32 are put to the vote. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 31 votes to 82, with 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on the number 10 puzzle. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 43 votes in favour, 80 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 40th. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 23 votes in favour, 100 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the number 29. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 23 votes to 92, with 8 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for cluster number four. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 20 votes in favour, 103 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the number 18 puzzle. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 20 votes in favour, 89 against and 14 abstentions. Next, we will vote on items 23 and 31. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 20 votes to 89, with 14 abstentions. We shall then proceed to the vote on the debate following the opinion delivered by all the parliamentary groups. The vote begins. The item was adopted by 123 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we will vote on the legislative technical issues; first, number 2. The vote begins. The item was adopted by 123 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for number three. The vote begins. The item was approved by 100 votes to 23, with no abstentions. And then, we'll vote for number four. The vote begins. The item was adopted by 123 votes to none, with no abstentions. We shall then vote on the text of the opinion in three separate votes. The text of Article 3 shall be put to the vote. The vote begins. The text was approved by 100 votes to 23, with no abstentions. We shall then vote on Articles 6, 23a and 24 of the opinion. The vote begins. The texts were adopted by 115 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. The rest of the text of the opinion was put to the vote. The vote begins. The Catalan Statistical Pla Law Project 2017-2020_has been approved by 123 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] According to Rule 81.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliamentary Group Joint for the Yes has called for the alteration of the order of the day so that the 21st point of the order of the day, which is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the electric car, is substantial before the 19th point, which is the Movement following the inquiry on the violence of the gene. Can this alteration be approved with your consent? [[Pause.]] So, it's approved, thank you. [[Draft law on the protection of the right to housing of persons at risk of residential exclusion]] [[200-00016/11]] The next item is the debate and vote on the committee's opinion on the draft law on the protection of the right to housing of persons at risk of residential exclusion. In accordance with Rules 118.5 and 121.1 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Marc Solsona, who has been appointed rapporteur, has the word to present the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.24.0	Good morning, everybody. Madam President, Members, Members, well, just a few words for, like the rapporteur, first of all, to aggravate the pocket sliced for the different parliamentary groups. We had a charge, a charge to make a law at a time and form memories, therefore, with an organized pose, let's say, and summoned quickly, and with an intensive day of close to six hours, in which we were able to talk about the seventy issues presented. Then, from these seventy items, some were withdrawn, and we could say that in the end..., about 50_percent of the items that were presented at the end could be accepted and, therefore, some of the living things that are being done here will remain. I have to highlight the work, logically, of the lethargy, of the different spokespersons, and say that, even if it is a subject – which we will then talk about, in the interventions, of its content in the norm – of a subject of a strong fall, let us say to ourselves, legal, but also emotional, we have found, I believe, as the rapporteur, the just balance between trying to find the most effective and useful standard and what is the most possible part of what the application of this also calls for. Therefore, from here – and then we'll have time to debate the text – thank you all for the good predisposition, the attitude, the commitment and the will that, as much as we have the burden of being quick, so, if he didn't want to, he couldn't have been. So, today we are here before we finish the year with this rule, and so, personally, I am satisfied, to myself and I assume that all of you too, those who have been able to participate in it, and we wait now, so... in the discussion of the papers. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.25.0	Thank you very much, Mr Solsona. Next, we move to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to defend the reserved items; then the other groups will intervene to position themselves on the text. In the first place, for the defense of the reserved items has the word Sergio Sanz, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.26.0	All right, thank you, President. Counselors, deputies..., we have before us a bill that has raised a great expectation, and it does so because of the issue it seeks to address, which is to give protection to people at risk of residential exclusion. When we are talking about residential exclusion or energy poverty, we are failing to ensure that poverty is not spread. When a fellow citizen cannot pay rent or light, it is because of a situation of poverty that also affects other aspects of his life. Because residential exclusion and poverty have to do with the distribution of income and the employment situation, but also with speculation about basic goods, such as housing. Thought should be given to the title of the law. They have called it the "Llei of measures of protection of the right to housing of persons at risk of residential exclusion, and it sounds very good to give a good headline with which to sell that this government has social concerns. But words in front of facts; there is nothing but looking at budgets. You invest virtually the same in housing policies as you do in maintaining all spending on public and subsidized media. Our autonomous television – although due to the lack of plurality I could say it's yours – costs twice as much as Andalusia's. Do you know how much the Andalusian Board has invested this year in housing policies? More than three times what they have devoted to autonomous television. Here we reverse the same thing. Then it is no wonder that Catalonia is the community where the most evictions occur from all over Spain, even though it is not the most populated community. And this, today, is his fault: of Convergence – or as they are now called –, of Republican Left and, to the extent that the CUP supports these budgets, so also of the CUP. Do you want to solve the problem of housing? Well, it's not enough just to apply patches, like the law we're going to pass here today; we need a budget. Are you willing to invest in housing policies three times as much as we invest in the media? If they are willing, it is enough for them to vote this afternoon in favour of the housing motion that we have drafted from Ciutadans and that we will be discussing in a while. If Andalusia invests three times as much in housing as on television, why don't we do the same? We may no longer be the autonomous community with the most evictions. Because, let's be honest, today we are going to pass a law with a magnificent title on the proposal of the Government of the Generalitat, with which it intends to wash its image, but they will not invest in housing policies more than what was already invested in 2006, so it seems that what is sought is a title, because the Law on the Right to Housing of 2007 set as its objective to have a social housing park in 2027 that represents 15_per_cent of the total and we are only in 2_per_cent, and this is because that objective has not had budgetary translation. And that, in the end, passing laws that don't have a budget and that sound very good, is a hairdo, because in the end it is very titular and few nuts. As I said, the project is a patch. Since Ciutadans we have tabled amendments aimed at effectively committing the Generalitat to ensure that it guarantees the right to housing of our fellow citizens and not merely to mediate in cases of non-payment. Do you know what to do so that people can pay rent or mortgage? Firstly, there must be quality employment, but measures must also be put in place to avoid new price bubbles. And this bill only addresses the issue of price containment by saying that later, with another law with which they will presumably seek to conflict with regulation at the national level, it will be resolved. But, of course, that quest for conflict will give you an electoral revenue, with that strategy of nationalist victimism that you apply. On this issue, that of increasing housing prices, we will debate this afternoon, as in the motion we will put to you from Ciutadans we propose mechanisms aimed at containing prices that have perfect constitutional and statutory fit. Because it can be regulated by measures that introduce tax escalation to the transmission tax and encourage the promotion of affordable rental housing. Mechanisms can also be set up within the IRPF's autonomous segment to encourage the containment of sales or rental prices. But for that it is necessary that you stop seeing taxes as mere collection instruments, because they also serve as elements of regulation of the economic model and must establish themselves as a useful tool for social policies, not only because of their redistributive nature, but also because of what is being encouraged with them, as has also happened with the policies on urban planning or official housing, with which you have speculated. This housing motion that we will be presenting to you this afternoon also addresses these issues of urbanism. In fact, the motion proposes a battery of measures that may be useful in structurally solving the housing problem, which is a matter that this law does not do. Because here we have a structural problem that is historic. In the 30 years of the Convergence Government there has been no clear will to have housing policies, as demonstrated by the fact that the budget has remained stable and has not taken action either in the budget they presented to us before yesterday, for which I have told you. I have already announced that prices can be contained by establishing progressive criteria, encouraging affordable rent through the ITP or with a system of bonuses in the IRPF's autonomous segment, combined with the setting of maximum recommended prices. The Housing Decree can also be redefined, so that it becomes a tool for cataloguing dwellings according to their quality and, with this, to use it to encourage the improvement of the quality of dwellings. Urban planning also has much to offer in terms of changing the model of housing ownership to affordable rent. In short, we propose that there should be a plan accompanied by a serious increase in the budget for housing policies. Today there is going to be a good debate on housing in this Parliament, but I am afraid it is not now, it will be when we address the motion we have put to you from Ciutadans. But back to the law I'm going to refer to the three chapters. The first refers to mediation in the field of consumption, a mediation that is voluntary, aimed at seeking solutions in cases of non-payment that avoid the judicial process. Welcome, but neither is it the panacea. Before I enter the second chapter, I shall refer to the third. The main point of this chapter is that it establishes transitional obligations for the relocation of persons at risk of residential exclusion, for those owners who are legal persons under certain conditions. And with regard to these obligations, there are few objections. The objection that we see on this issue is that housing emergencies will not be dealt with on the basis of those who suffer this risk of exclusion, but on the basis of those who rent them housing, and this makes no sense at all. Why is the Government of the Generalitat not effectively committed to ending the negative effects of evictions? Currently, 90_percent of evictions are due to unpaid rents, and evictions occur in private homes and not in businesses. Therefore, the obligations laid down in this chapter do not seem to us to be inconceivable. What seems to us to be a misconception is that this law will leave the people affected by these evictions, which are the majority, unprotected. It can still be corrected if we accept an amendment which we have tabled in this respect, so that it is the Generalitat that ensures that, ultimately, in cases where rents are private, a reallocation is sought with the generalitat's own resources. Finally, I will comment on the second chapter, which sets out measures calling for an increase in the affordable rental housing stock. The title is formidable, but it was already the objective of Law 18/2007 on the right to housing. This law was passed almost ten years ago, and absolutely nothing has been done to achieve its objectives. Ten years ago, this law was passed, which had as its objective for 2017 to have the housing park intended for social purposes that meant 15_per_cent of the total, and today the sheltered rental housing does not reach even 2_per_cent. As I said, the law was passed in 2007, but since then the budgets have not exceeded those of 2006. I mean, a headline; nothing effective. And, as I said before, the budget you want to allocate to 2017 does not go beyond that budget. That is why it said before that the Government of the Generalitat today presents this bill to wash its image, because a law that is not accompanied by a budget becomes a deception, a scam for citizens. And citizenship does not deserve to be deceived by laws that announce great goals, when those goals are not accompanied with honesty by a budget that allows for the making of the troops. The law can be useful, a patch is always better than nothing, but to achieve some goals, laws as well as public policies are not as necessary. And on this issue we will be able to discuss this afternoon with the motion I have indicated to you earlier. In the motion there is that key aspect, investment. The law we're going to pass requires a budget. Is the Government of the Generalitat willing to invest more in housing than it did in 2006? Is the Government of the Generalitat willing to invest three times as much in housing policies as on TV3 and the rest of the public and subsidized media? I'm afraid not. Because the Government of the Generalitat needs to give worried speeches about problems of a social nature, but not to give them a solution, because their argument throughout this legislature and for a long time is that to solve the problems Catalans must separate us from the rest of Spain. And, of course, if that's your argument, giving a solution to the problems does not benefit them, because it would disassemble that argument with which you seek an electoral revenue and seek to convince the citizenry. We will facilitate the passage of the law, but I announce it by warning that, in the hands of a government dedicated to building a border and not to building a public housing park, it will not serve to achieve the objectives that are announced in it or to achieve the objectives that were already established in 2007. Because it is not the law, it is the budget and the real objectives of the government that are indecent. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.27.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanz. Next, to defend the emena presented by the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.28.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember July 2015, when some of you were here... – this is very high. [[the orator assigns the Faristol]] ; well... –, July... [[See Backgrounds and Rials]] – no, no..., exact – the July of 2015 we were here many of us, and they were vousing this Parliament and this hemisphere; even some high current instancy of Catalan politics, of the municipal world, was here at the rostrum and saw some tears when the text was approved. It seems that today the text, which speaks of itself, which has the same objectives, does not arouse that same interest in entities, in the people who pushed it, and I am sorry. Nor in the government. That is to say, all day long advertising about this subject and saying that because of the Government of Spain I don't know what, and it doesn't present absolutely nobody when we talk about the right to housing. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I was preparing this intervention just a few days ago that we had experienced cold, a certain storm, especially in other parts of Spain, and I thought that one of the most comforting experiences of day to day and of life is when you arrive home one day cold from those and say, "Now I'm going home and I'm going to find the climber and I'm going to find a protective environment... And he obviously thought, and preparing this text, in so many people who can't have this experience, and he knew that they were going through cold physical, and he knew that they were going through cold existential, because at the end, listen to me, the house is a radical and fundamental aspect of our existence, it's that fundamental perimeter of our existence, it's our first world, it's the space of security, it's the realm of intimacy, it's about personal and family identity. The house is our first country. Some languages reflect it very well; for example, German, right? , on « home, « Hey, has a direct relationship with « Heimat, which is « country. And that's why people who don't have a home at the end can say they're impatient, that they're people without a home, without a home. And that's why those of us who still believe in countries like cultural matrimony should make a major effort – we should make a major effort – to guarantee this fundamental right. And that's why you're right, as I said the other day, and you felt that the Constitution explained in its Article 47, guaranteeing in its Article 47 that all Spaniards have a right to a decent and adequate habitation. And that's why it's legitimate, as I said the other day, that we ask ourselves how far the public authorities have actually fulfilled all that constitutional mandate that follows and that says that the public authorities promote the necessary conditions, set the relevant standards to carry out this right. And we need to look at Madrid, and we need to look at private actors and banks, but in Catalonia we also need to be self-critical, ladies and gentlemen, and take on our responsibilities – now the Deputy of Ciutadans was talking about it. I have a certain feeling that the Government of the Generality, in this matter of denunciations and housing, has done what we could say to "outsource responsibility, privatize responsibility". In the end, escort'm, the public authorities have a responsibility, but as we do not know how to privatize it, we say that the private actors are the ones who solve the problem. And, listen to me, maybe, since there's a counselor, before you do independence, before you do independence to solve everything, maybe you start applying and realizing where you have skills. They say, "Look, we'll build the paradise. So, look, before you can prove that you know how to manage the garden that you yourselves have donated, for example with the Statute, that gives exclusive competitions to the Generality in the matter of housing. And now you're asking that the private sector solve... and it's fine, and we'll vote for it, but solve what you haven't been able to do. Because, I remember, the Statute says: "The Generality has exclusive competence in habitation. Article 47 of the Statute: "Public authorities must facilitate access to housing by means of the generation of soil and the promotion of public housing. What have these past years done? Res. The same State, in another article: "The Generality must guarantee the emancipation of young people and access to the housing of young people. What have these past years done? Res. The other day in The Newspaper explained that only a 20_per_cent of young people can emancipate. There was a law of habitation, and before that he spoke, which he said to us: « Fifteen_per_cent of public habitation in the year 2030. We've got a 2-per-cent! It is that you, the tripartite, promised us noranta_mil– noranta_mil– public habitations and noranta-four large areas; they did not build them! And here, as I say recently, governments have changed, but there's someone who's always been to the government, and it's the Republican Left of Catalonia. It's that it's easier to accuse all bad Madrid, and the bank. Home, imagine's...'s, they're callers, huh? , the two enemies, in this case. But one day you're gonna have to grow up, and one day you're gonna have to take some responsibility and get through this phase of immature psyche, of political infantilism, of saying that it's all the others' fault, always and by definition. We celebrate the text that today wears, the celebrated; an exceptional text before an exceptional situation. And I want to thank the government's all and captivating, in this text, and the rapporteur of the ponència. Here were two possible paths: the way to use a text to make confrontation, to make propaganda, to seek the shoc – bastard – with the Constitutional and with the Government of the State, or the way to try to solve the real problems of the most vulnerable of society; and I think that in the end they have chosen this path. And we'll be on the side of the government whenever I want to take steps to help the people who need it the most. And we'll stand up to the government when what they want is to create confrontation, institutional shock and independent propaganda. And they'll say, "Home, we don't do propaganda," he'll say, "no, we don't do propaganda. But, look, I'll give you an example: during months, do you know what the 2015 law was like? And the diaris and...? It is the law of the poor energy. During months, months and months talking about the Law of energy poverty. It turns out that the Government of Spain did not resort to the article on energy poverty, and from the day after, to the Diaris, to the Mitjans, it is no longer the law of energy poverty, it is the law against denunciations. They immediately changed the title, because they were interested in victimism and confrontation. This is a law intended above all to require over-exercise from the financial institutions and the large holders. And it contemplates temporary and compensated expropriations, and we agree, and it contemplates mediation mechanisms before mortgage payments, and we also agree. Listen to me, we have said more than once: the financing system has rejected important aid in order not to get in the way during the crisis. So the financing system must also be responsible for economic recovery, and especially for the families that most need it. Therefore, those who have been jointly responsible for the crisis must also be jointly responsible for the recovery. And I do not say that they are responsible for it, that they are responsible for it. Because you, Mrs. De la Calle, have said it many times: "Here there are many responsible; also the assemblies, also the administrations, etc. But we have to do things right, ladies and gentlemen, we have to do things right, because, if not, an excess of zeal could cause the opposite effect. And we must say: "What do you want: to be effective or to make propaganda? They want to be effective. Because..., I'll say one thing that I know is very politically incorrect, but someone has to say, and everyone else, and they know it – you know it – and you're the first. Listen to me, if we completely prevent the mortgages, if we completely prevent and make it extraordinarily difficult to pay off the logger, at the end of which is without being able to access the logger and the mortgages are made lower, because the people will not want to give credit, nor give mortgages, nor give logger to the lower returns that they cannot guarantee, of course, one hundred_per_cent, always the payment. And that's why there are many cases, and some have explained to me a lot recently. So, how can we guarantee the right to housing? So, with legal certainty, with an increase in the offer – with an increase in the offer, and that is why we have to lower, for example, taxes on the city every time we want or want to buy a habitat or transfer a habitat – and then a powerful policy of public housing and accompanying families that most need it. This is why we have introduced an additional fourth provision, which says: "Listen, the Generalitat very well, what you do..., the benches, what you leave floors, but you also make living and public habitation. Therefore, we have an emergency situation and give an emergency response. And this is not an invention of Paul Iglesias, nor of the 19th century, nor of the 21st century. Listen to me, to say the least and let no one offend: any thinker of the 13th century would have been in favour of the social dimension and social orientation of wealth at a particularly exceptional time. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] ‘Except if it was the PP. Well, it turns out, we didn't exist yet. Listen to me, we give support to this law, which gives us tools to fight against residential exclusion without climbing competitions from others. We are in favour of the mediation mechanism because it seems to us to be in line with the case law of the Constitutional Court, which means that mediation, if it is limited, is voluntary. We wanted to reinforce – and we came to a point – the character of this volunteer in the final stretch of the mediation. We are only concerned and we will abstain in Article 17; in Article 17, which you say to private entities: "You, to those who deny them, must give them another habitation. We think it's a good thing that he's asking..., that he's temporarily expropriated – not for me, huh? – some habitats, the use of some habitats. Now, of course, forcing the private sector to do something that does not correspond to it and that corresponds to the public sector, it seems to me to be introducing dangerous interference. That is to say, you can say, for example, to a car dealer: "Mirin, you have the obligation, the person who runs out of it..., the car is spat out, if it has no resources, to give it to another. Okay. Listen, it's public administration. « No, it's not the same. Sure. No, but the logic... is the public administration, in the end, the one that has to bear this cost. And they can ask the banks for an effort and they can ask private agents for an effort, but what they can't do is force them to do what, by nature, they don't have to do. They can invite them to do so, they can sign agreements, they can even force them to donate, but other things seem to us, in the end, that they can be dangerous. But, well, I'd like to subtend the coincidence of funds that we have with the rest of the law's articles. We'd have liked to get somewhere else. For example, we proposed a social rescue fund; not only to pay – not just to pay – to people who can't pay a logger, but to those who have already been inflated, who have been in the past and who have accumulated debts; following that beautiful Catalan tradition, redeeming the debt; redeeming the debt also from the public sector, from the public administration. What you've asked so many times, when the PP presents it, it turns out they vote against it and say no, it doesn't look good. We... you know what's going on? That when we take up a proposal of the law we look at the text and do not look at who presents it, who bears the signature of each word. I would like to thank, in change, the acceptance of the guidelines and guidelines to link these extraordinary aids to social inclusion plans, to economic inclusion plans. We're always opposed to it, but it's legitimizing the occupation. We will abstain at this point which, somehow, can open some seal in this sense, which seems unnecessary to us. We always defend, as I said the other day, the right to property; the right to property in the double sense that it has, that it is the right of people who have things and have earned them legitimately to enjoy them, to enjoy them and to possess them, and the right of those who do not have, who do not yet have, to have access to property and to have access to wealth. And that's why the public administration has to take action and this law seems to us that, in general, it's well-directed to achieve it. Thank you very much, President, ladies and gentlemen. And thank you to the reader for the work he's done, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to defend the slogan presented for the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word of Mr Lluís Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.30.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you, to friends and friends who come with us. Well, say we get to the final debate of a bill that all political forces have agreed to consider of the utmost importance. And that's actually the case, because the stars caused by the years of crisis and austerity policies have found in the denunciations and in the sizes of the sub-administration – i.e., in the poor energy and in the residential exclusion – some of the bloodiest expressions. This is how Catalan civil society heard it, because from it, and here we have PAH companies accompanying us today, the impulse of the Law 24/2015 came. And so have the Generality, assemblies, parties, unions, social movements, which have reacted before the challenge of a whole series of articles of this law – articles that actually, as the law is called, have served to put up with denominations, hundreds of denominations – claiming that the Parliament of Catalonia finds a way to give legal employment to the efforts of the administrations – first of all, local administrations, the local world, the assemblies – in order to deal with what is a real emergency situation. Recent dramas such as Reus's or the daily routine of launches that are produced by the country remind us that the uncertain economic recovery to which the greats point..., the macroeconomic indications have as to reverse a social inequality that is not to be elongated and an intolerable human suffering. We must therefore congratulate ourselves on the promptness and responsibility with which the question has dealt with a text which today is put to the vote and to your consideration; a document which, I think, has proved to be absolutely necessary and which we cannot avoid by means of a single reading procedure, as originally intended by the Government. So we show seventy points that have been presented and debated – some to the institutions of unions, social movements, assemblies, Third Sector Table –, drop points, important points, and which have called for a discussion of foundations and also the building of consensus, and, finally, some that are maintained, some of these points that are maintained, and that we ask, for what it does to our parliamentary formation, that are voted on separately. It's the case that I'm going to discuss further, and that we've been able to defend on the stand with the CUP companies, and I'm going to summarise it all. Let me say, however, that the project constituted, from the outset, and this was our opinion, a good basis for work. I believe that the work of the police has improved and strengthened it, and you go forward, so our support for the bill. An example of these better... – was spoken before the PP as with a certain regress, with a certain fear –, one of these better we have in the approach that makes the text of the pose of such a complex and polyhedric theme as that of the housing occupations without the enabling title. And here's a reality we can't take refuge in. A few days ago the councillor presented us, explained to us the content of the suitable signed for the Generality and the BBVA for the temporary cessation of the properties of this entity of credit, and explained to us very well that the half of these given floors is in an unregularized situation of occupation. So it's a problem we've got between hands. And we know very well that the case is very different. In this sense, it is therefore more relevant that, together with the requests of the third sector, the fourth additional provision, which you will find to the draft law, state that the decisions to award housing owned or managed by public administrations – this, in the hope of a specific regulation – will comply with the criteria of the months of valuation of situations of social and economic emergence; criteria to be taken into account in situations of living together, also understand that the occupation does not give preference to access to the habitats of this same public park for the purpose of preserving the rights of persons in an accredited situation of residential exclusion. So I think the project is making an effort to seriously address a problem that we have had to deal with in this Parliament and that the committees have had to deal with, sometimes with specific cases and situations; a few days ago we were talking about situations in Mataró, huh? The overall view in favour of the draft law does not come to pass, however, that it has not been resolved at all, we think, some questions that are significant in our opinion. The first has to do with what we could call the 'nerve of war,' is to say, with the presuppositionary support of public policies in matter. Naturally, we are sensitive to the reiterated fact that it makes the text of the need to enable sufficient parties, as well as the commitment of institutional loyalty of the Generality with the joint ventures, with the consequent involvement of resources. Also, we will maintain item 6, an item of addition to article 2, which refers to the need to contemplate open parties at the time of designing the financing of the Generality's programs. The very debate on the question put in full the validity of the focus contained in Law 18/2007 of 28 September, the Law on the right to housing – a good occasion to remember and to claim from our parliamentary group the work that was done in his time by Councillor Salvador Milà [[some applause]] – according to which the government's actions in the matter are configured as a public interest service. It would not be the first time – certainly not for what it does to the emergence itself, but in the realm of social housing policies – in which the exhaustion of the assigned assumption has deprived access to certain people who had rightful access to it. And one of our partial reviews, which we will do in the course of the presupposition process, on the 2017 accounts, has to do with these concrete cases, with some of these concrete cases. If at some point, we think, you have heard the assumption of the open parties, it seems to us that it is right here, because of the difficulties of quantifying beforehand and precisely the demands that it will pose to us a social situation that is still full of uncertainty, and because precisely in these circumstances we believe it vital to convey to the citizen an unequivocal message of compromise on the part of the public administrations, which does not have to do with seeing, as at some point in the discussions, that always lead to exaggerations, it has come to say, that it had to see with a claim of infinite resources; it has to do with priorities and efforts..., with commitments and efforts guaranteed on the part of the public administration. The second point we keep is number 42, which refers to the subject of abusive loggers. Together for the Yes it wanted to resolve the issue by means of a final provision that commits the Government to – I quote – approve the criteria under which urban leases should be regulated and to prepare a draft law to facilitate access to the housing of logger, ordering from the duration of the contracts to the assumption of the price of logger abuse. Well, we consider that it is already a certain success that an expression such as this, that of « abusive loguers, which until now seems to be difficult to pronounce, figure as such in the text of the law. And, of course, it is not us who would oppose working in favour of a new legal arrangement in this sense, even though they see the statement that Together for the Yes and that fits into the pose, we understand that we are promoting, in fact, a profound modification of the Law of Urban Rentals, the LAU. And, indeed, it may be recalled that the evolution of this law, in concrete terms the reform carried out in 2013 under the government of the absolute majority of the PP, reducing the duration of five-year contracts to three years or introducing the possibility of annual increases, has contributed, and very powerfully, to the speculative fever that currently dominates the market of the housing of lloguer. Therefore, when we talk about policies and responsibilities, modestly, each has to assume its own. But, precisely, we think that referring to a future change in the global legislative framework, a necessary and urgent sense of doubt, about urban leases seems insufficient at the time when we are discussing a law of urgent measures as it stands today. And it is to say that the saga of the abusive loguers has become a problem of exceptional gravity, and the approach made by the text of the question does not, we think, end by copying neither the social dimension, the whole social dimension, nor above all the frantic rhythm at which this problem is unfolding. Yesterday, it was said and repeated, the vast majority of the denunciations that are produced are due to default of logging. And this Parliament has the duty to give the alert and say things for its name: we are ahead of a new bottle in the real estate market – we are ahead of a new bottle in the real estate market. In Barcelona, in mid-January, the price of the monthly logger is already at 17,4_euros per square metre, over which are the prices of rent before the esclat of the previous candy. A recent study by the Federation of Veterinary Associations of Barcelona, the FAVB, on the logger to the capital shows that the city's busiest barrels at hours of time are the Barceloneta and the Olympic Village, in front of Sarrià - Sant Gervasi. In two years the loguers have put a 62_per_cent in the district of Sant Martí, a 53_per_cent in the Eixample and a 52_per_cent in Grace. And all folded with effects that, if we don't stop the phenomenon, will end up being literally devastating; for Barcelona, certainly, but also throughout the area and the metropolitan region on which the effect of this sacra is extinguished. The speculative pressure affects the social differences of the city and its surroundings and makes them worse: while, at the same time, the families of the most risky barrels dedicate between 5 and 10 per cent of their entrances to face the expenses of their habitation, to Nou Barris, with prices much lower than in Sarrià - Sant Gervasi, the proportion of the effort of the families exceeds 35 per cent of the family units, of the entrances of the family units. It is certain that the pressure of tourism and foreign real estate and speculative investment are acting on a city with a huge historical deficit in social housing. And it's true, too, that without a park enough, that if we're supposed to trigare too many years to have, it's hard to focus on the alcist tendencies of the real estate market. And it's that demand is far superior to the offering and the veneration of our barrels must compete with people with much greater purchasing power. The effects are huge. The launches are, in fact, the thermometer of a profound urban transformation: the gentrification of the most cobbled barrels – more than a hundred times and every month from Ciutat Vella – ; destruction of the proximity trade; insecurity; displacement of the population to the periphery, with the consequent increase in traffic and contamination, not to mention the situation of the young person. According to the Emancipation Observers, 80_percent of children under thirty years of age cannot leave home– 80_per_cent. It is a matter, in our opinion – and it is what sets the agenda that we maintain – of developing indicators that establish a clear relationship between prices and average returns by localities and districts, so that from the point of view of abuse those leases that are located around 30_percent of the average family entrances. We lack the capacity to fix topalls, a capacity for what other European capitals have? Don't we have sanctioning powers yet? We have to complain to them – we have to complain to them. We're looking for a way to cope with speculation. This will require a wide range of measures and public policies. But today we are taking a first step, placing, if not, the problem in the very articulation of the law and with the urgency character that arises. We will also maintain a whole series of items, from 55 to 63, suggested for trade unions and social entities, and that they become inflated with additional provisions. In fact, all these asides, all these items have recovered a whole series of provisions from Law 18/2007, from the right to housing, to which I referred earlier, which have been escaped by the bus laws, not by the Constitutional Court, huh? , only for the omnibus laws. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The bill..., underlining..., to remind and to point out that the bill that is under way, underlining the pre-eminence of the social function of housing and retreat, recovers the notion of temporary expropriation of you, already makes a pesso in this sense, to recover elements of that law from the right to housing. The articles of the Law 18/2007 to which the documents refer..., taken from item 57, which has been incorporated into the survey and which is a theme that, as you see, speaks of habitats, of the detection of unoccupied habitats, these..., all these articles have less to see with the measures of emergence specifically said that with territorial, sectoral plans, the reserves for habitat in official protection or with the terms of qualification of the habitats built in public land. However, they are important elements if we are to develop a coherent social housing policy, now that we are about to address territorial plans. We believe that this project, taken together with the legislative mechanism of taking advantage of the additional provisions, gives us the opportunity to recover them without delay and with full legal certainty. And, finally, we'll keep the 68, which puts Balsareny's inclusion in the list of municipalities with strong and accredited residential demand, in a list that includes 234 locations. The Balsareny Assembly has not already made the demand, based on an actual problem of conurbation, to see the location surrounded by other municipalities included in this list. I would not end up without expressing our group's gratitude to the CUP's company, and, in particular, to Joan Garriga, with whom it has been a pleasure to work in the work of this job, and also to thank all parliamentary groups for the effort and willingness to build a project with face and eyes. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.31.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Popular Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed, has the word of Mr. Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.32.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, company of the entities that you are here today, first of all, tell you a message: let us rejoice that the courts have, therefore, brought back to the bench the stasis that they made through the cells alone. The PAH was right, it's pot. [[Greetings.]] Okay. You know – you know – that the 2015 Law would end up in the Constitution and would be suspended. You knew it perfectly, and they didn't care. And we can suspect that, after all, they were looking for him so they could start the conflict. They were the words of a Member of Parliament here on the draft law that the government..., in the debate that we held last November. For what the Member gives us or for what seems to draw's from his word, nor despite the fact that this Llei, therefore, on 24/2015, emerged from a popular legislative initiative, given the answer to a cruel reality of two thousand people in the country who hold their members in a situation of attur, with huge taxes of attur, that the risk rate of poverty or social exclusion to Catalonia is located in 26_per_cent and that 12.9_per_cent of the population of Catalonia have many difficulties to reach within the month, it seems that the Law 24/2015 does not respond to any measure of urgency or need. And despite the fact that an economic, socio-economic reality, which has been a key factor in hearing the large number of complaints and cases of families at risk of social exclusion in the field of housing, it does not seem that Law 24/2015 has anything to do with this socio-economic situation. It seems that the 24/2015, annulled by the Constitutional Court, responded, therefore, to a delay, to a will arising from malaltistic minds, some from the independenceist imagination, which, in order not to speak of the real things that concern the people of the country, therefore, spoke of other things. That was reality. As the Ovidi sings: "All lost forever; the result was one, the perfect play. And the play is this: approve some laws here, then they are charged with the Constitutional Court and the result, so we know: create a new framework in which we have to place ourselves in order to be able to refer some of the articles down. No compulsory cessation of empty habitats, no measures to stop the denunciations, no obligation to propose social logger, no description and definition of large estates, no mechanism for the resolution of the over-indebtedness and present, yes, the habitat loss as an inevitable fact. And all this, moreover, loves – loves – with a fine song of "this is not the object of the law. This is the mark in which, some believe, we should make the new law, and, in fact, this is the paranoia in which we have put ourselves and in which we have, therefore, to work, to defend the proposals which, together with Catalonia Yes, it is possible, we have made in the yes of the question and which different entities – some, today, here – have made us come here to resolve the opinion of the committee that today is presented for assessment and approval. Without any intention of making history, however, with the determination to tell you how many times you need, we would say once more that for the CUP no articles fallen for the Constitutional Court, cap, was essential. We expressed it, we manifested it and this was an attitude not only as an act of loyalty to the ILP, a support to the entities that promote it, but also, we thought, was the mark of credibility from which we thought we should work the new law; an attitude that we wanted to maintain, I say, in the papers presented jointly with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and those that, in particular, one, therefore, we have presented as the CUP - Constituent Creed. From the documents submitted with Catalonia Yes, it is possible, we would like to highlight the willingness to bring to the law definitions and clarifications – some have said to them the Lluís and has explained it well – that in order not to name them they would not cease to exist, all the contrary, we believe that they are things that are in the spring of the bone, in the protection of the habitat of people who are at risk of social exclusion: function of property; prevention in measures and actions before the habitat launches; formulation and realization of economic aids to the reallocation and maintenance of what, we consider, is the usual habitat; obligations before the reallocation of the occupants with or without the title of enabling; creation of information that can help to inhabit the reallocation, is the usual habitat; obligations before the reallocation of the occupants with or without the title of enabling; creation of information that can be used to enable the reallocation of the reallocation, that allows the reallocation of objects to be carried out; Important points that, like those that brought the social organizations and entities to us, claimed that the repeal of the articles of Law 18/2007, from the right to housing, on the line of recognizing this right and the social function of housing over its value as a product to finance, is reversed. We also stand alone, as has been said, in defending many of these issues, we keep them alive here today and hope to be able to take them into account in new and proper discussions and, of course, legislative opportunities. While the preamble to the law says that public powers must be able to react at different levels of articulation in order to hear the social situation caused by human tragedies in which, as a consequence of the deprivation of the right to housing, the right to life has been affected by the CUP's proposal for a law that we are debating today urgently and exceptional in order to deal with the drama of occupational emergence, the law project faces intervention in the field of housing, we believe, from an insufficient position respects the certitude required to mobilise the empty housing park. And it is lacking in strength and excess of laxity in front of the banks and great possessors of habitations, which, with its speculative practices, are guilty of the fact that there are thousands of empty habitations, unusable, while there has been an imperative need for habitatation by the popular classes. And that's why we maintain, even though we know that with very few opportunities to succeed, the idea of not giving representation to banks and financial entities and representatives of real estate in the housing and welfare committee; their interests are not only far from the object of the committee, but they have precisely been direct protagonists and culprits in the current situation. What relationship – what relationship – can we have with you who, in connection with political power, has secured legislation that overprotects them, has achieved multi-millionaire benefits, has participated in the mortgage and bad practice that are the origin of the crisis that today condemns millions of people to maturity and precariousness and that about keeping secret a heritage that we have paid with public money? What confidence can we have in all these people? « Let them sweat in the table, tell us. Yes, sir, let's take them to the table, but not to the table of entities without purpose, but to the negotiating table in which we can recover the public housing park that, as a result of speculation, manages them as a financing agency. Our fear, however, is not the banks; we know the enemy. Our fear, our doubt is to know whether with this law we are at the height of the needy, from which we ask the harsh and cruel reality that many families must suffer; if we are at the height of never sending before the judgment people like Veronica and Eliseu, called Clot, for having liked to make the great sin of defending their habitation. And thank you... [[Greetings.]] And despite this fear and these doubts, we will vote in favour of having a law without giving up any time to work so that access to housing is guaranteed for most people, and also because it is, in some way, taken into account, reflected, in the assumptions we have to approve in 2017. Habitat policy, no one gets away with it, is the great challenge we must face as the country does. We hope that the trees will let us see the forest, the offer of suitable habitat and the containment of existing habitat prices. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.33.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Garriga. To fix his position, Mr. Jordi Terrades of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.34.0	Councillor, president, deputies, deputies..., first of all, I want to thank the work and the work of all the speakers on this law; also the councillor and the secretary of Habitatge, in the work planned for the formal presentation of this law, and also the people who worked the text that finally came to Parliament, right? , the municipalist entities, the Barcelona Assembly, the Council of Lawyers of Catalonia, also the contributions that came to us..., also the entities that promoted the ILP that brought the place to the Law 24/2015, although finally they did not subscribe to the draft law. And also the contributions... – now that I see the governor of the Assembly of the Hospital –, the contributions that also brought us to the Assembly of the Hospital, which has been proactive, very proactive in this law. Today, with the approval of the law, we replace those articles of the Law 24/2015 that the Government of the State, the Government of the People's Party, appealed before the Constitutional Court. Recourseed articles, it goes to say, that, with the fact that the Constitutional Court has not yet entered into force, we do not know whether they are constitutional or not constitutional, eh? I'm just saying that, uh, these statements so strict that they've made these articles suspicious. Still don't know, huh? But the Emergence is still here, huh? and, in the background, the object of this law is the same: to seek solutions and exits to people at risk of residential exclusion because of the launch of their known habitats. It is, therefore, a question of responding to the social emergence that continues to persist, that it is an emergence derived from the depth of the economic crisis that we have experienced in recent years, and that has had a devastating effect on many people and that has caused a major social problem. In fact, after hundreds of thousands of foreclosures that happened on the conjunction of the State, also Catalonia, in the Parliament is presented a popular legislative initiative– in fact, I want to greet also the promoters of this, who today accompany us in this act of approval of this law– and led to the approval of the Law 24/2015, which for us was and continues to be a good instrument, the part that has been used and the part that continues to be in force. I'll talk to you later, won't I? The Law 24, the law also from the right to housing of 2007, which Mr.Rabell makes reference to before, and the law that we will pass today, from our point of view, are important instruments with which the public administrations of Catalonia count to guarantee the protection of people who cannot face the payment of their mortgages, also of the quotas of the loguer of their habitual domicile, or the cost of the basic sub-administrations. We believe that it was necessary, after this interim suspension that the Constitutional Court had to do before the appeal of the Government of the State, to reposition from the table measures against over-indebtedness, derived from debts related to habitual housing; mechanisms to find out out out-of-court solutions before these situations and guarantees to provide a social logger on the part of the large housing estates, also of the Administration. Before any Member referred to Article 17, who saw difficulties..., well, difficulties, then, put the saying or warned that the sole responsibility is not great; he asked: "What does the Administration do? Well, surely, I disagree here. I will collect the whole of Article 17, my parliamentary group, because, listen, the financial entities, the bank, did not complain when the public sector or the public administration put hundreds of millions on the table to rescue the sector, huh? And, therefore, man, we must also ask you for co-responsibility at the time of finding a way out of the problem we have. What's this girl doing? Home, therefore, this law recovers a precept that already developed the law of the year 2007 and that suppressed the government of President Mas, that is, the ability to temporarily expropriate the use of housing, and that my parliamentary group has already tried to recover it, and that the parties that are now part of the government did not see fit. We probably had some of the problems that many people have suffered from these years, haven't we? This is a measure that will affect only legal persons, and in certain cases of emergence and residential exclusion. We believe that it is a good instrument, moreover, that the provisions of the law include the effective participation of the Government of the Generality in the financing of these measures. You know that this was..., the ponent knows that this was a position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, since it was a petition that had also arrived in the municipal world, the assemblies of the country, which also sees, not with concern – or yes – that this Parliament makes many laws that end up assigning them many responsibilities, and sometimes responsibilities without resources. I believe that with the participation of all parliamentary groups we have managed to introduce this issue clearly into the law. That is to say, the government of the Generality's financial co-responsibility to give solution and exit to some of the legal instruments that fix this law. He told them that, despite the appeal that follows his trial in the Constitutional Court, the Socialist Parliamentary Group believes that we cannot accept any retreats in the rights of people to have a decent habitat. Having a decent habitat does not mean simply being in a habitat, but everything that entails it, does it not? And before the deputy of the People's Party, Mr. Fernando Sánchez, said..., the poor's issues, he introduced, he didn't come in after, but he introduced the poor's energy issues. And it is true, this is a part that is not resorted to in the law and that is still in force, and that we will not tire of saying that the mechanisms provided for in Law 24/2015 must be completed urgently. And if there is controversy, what has to be-is a rule, and we continue to insist that the government, urgently, approve this rule. Let me give you a little parenthesis. To us seems a good news the announcement was made yesterday of the agreement between the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the Congress of Deputies and the Government of the State in order to modify the law of the electricity sector, a new article will be introduced that will prohibit the interruption of electricity to vulnerable families, and regulates in a different way the social good, that will have to develop regularly the three-month propers and that will be spoken at the next summit of presidents. It would be a good occasion because the President of the Generality also attended this summit to discuss, among other things, this issue that concerns thousands of families in Catalonia. Let's go back to the law. It stays in force, too, the way or the compulsoryity, right? , that the entities, the big owners, the financial entities, reallocate those people who have had problems to deal with their mortgage debt. Also from the public administration, right? and, therefore, again insists on the importance of the Generality's assumptions empowering parties in this sense, to cover the housing needs we have in the country. As well as before the responsibility that we assign to the joint ventures, in the programme contracts that the consulting firm of Treball, Afers Socials and Families and the social services of the joint ventures must begin to renegotiate from the year 2017 is contemplated a new professional profile to follow up on all those policies of residential emergence. But, honourable Members and honourable Members, you will advise, from our point of view, public housing policies cannot be left solely in situations of giving out to situations of residential emergence. It can define a new housing policy that goes beyond immediate care. And this law, that the purpose of this was to replace these three articles that are used before the Constitutional Court, and this was the mandate of the two summits that were made to Palau called for by the very honorable president, this law begins to point out some of the themes that we should address in a new housing policy of the country. The first is that we need to further refine the second-opportunity mechanisms, in the sense of protecting consumers before the system finances and addressing the debate on the margins of logger prices, eh? The Socialist Parliamentary Group is aware that this will not be a neutral debate, that it will probably also be a competitive legal debate, eh? We did not want, as we imagine, what we did not want to do was to stifle the solution of the problem that we have in the table, which is the replacement of some articles used for this law, for another institutional conflict between which the Parliament of Catalonia approves and which, like basic legislation, attributed the State, which is precisely the law of urban leases. Now, this, despite the fact that the competitions are in the basic legislation of the State, this is a debate that we cannot escape, and that is why we have defended – and here we agree with the Government of the Generality – that what is a specific law, where all interested sectors can express their opinion and where we have an open debate respect this issue; where, moreover, we can compare the different legislation and experiences that exist in Europe, that are not unique. It is also true that the reality is sometimes different from the Catalan and Spanish reality, but this is a debate that is open, that we need to look for solutions and regulations, as today many of the problems we have are about family outreach that cannot pay the prices of the loguers. And it is also, and some other parliamentary groups pointed out, it is necessary to converge with the European medium of habitats intended to lodge, and to social and affordable. This means an increase, too, in the public housing park intended to be used. In fact, we have seen that in the 2017 assumptions of the Government of the Generalitat it is beginning to introduce this issue in a very shy way, eh? , very timid, if we provide between that which allocates some joints of the country to the purchase of habitat or to the production of habitat to be allocated to it and that which will be allocated to the Government of the Generalitat, they gain, as always, in this type of policies, the joints of the country. We encourage the Government of the Generality to present clearly what the policy will be in this sense. There's a warrant to the law, huh? , that in the terms of six months, between the sectoral plan, the Government has to explain clearly how it will produce habitats in order to increase the public park in order, in a reasonable way, to arrive at convergence with the European media that there is in this sense. We're proposing another question. Probably serious time to re-activate the National Habitating Pact to address a comprehensive habitating policy in mid-term in Catalonia. Finally, we will give support to the law. All the contributions that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has made and, therefore, we understand that this law and its rules give reasonable instruments to the public administrations of Catalonia, we legal instruments to deal with problems of residential emergence. Thank you, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.35.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Next, has the word Mr. Marc Solsona, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.36.0	Well, good morning to everyone another time. Thank you, Madam President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, secretaries of Habitatge, director of the agency, representatives of PAH entities, directors, directors who today accompanied us, well, then, very good day to everyone and allow me to begin these words noting that last November 9th, in the debate of the totality of this law, we compromised all the parliamentary groups that this bill was necessary and urgent and that, therefore, in a necessary and urgent way, it was necessary and urgent to proceed. I think we got it. We have managed that the task of President Puigdemont, expressed in the two summits, in the month of May and the month of July, has therefore been completed. It has been redrafted, agreed and discussed with time and form a law of urgent measures in the field of housing, where I think I share, with all the groups that it has generated, I see, great agreements; although, according to five types of intervention, I can give feeling to the contrary. If I may, however, I will look at this four-block process. A first set of issues, which were issues relating to the replacement or alternation text of Law 24/2015. Because we have to remember and we have to keep in mind that in a principle this law was designed for this, to replace the suspicious articles of Law 24/2015. Mr. Sanz, a Llei 24/2015 with which you were enchanted and which did not have an economic memory; this is true of you and, moreover, has the compromise, logically, that the Generality will assume all that can be derived. And talking about this girl's story, I think it's an unsuspecting understatement and a point of disloyality. What is really a scam is to sign a compromise before the entities, such as the PAH, in Madrid, to withdraw the appeal of the 24/2015, arrive and promote that there is a government in Madrid, that you have..., of the Popular Party, and then do not complete. That's a real scam at political time. [[Greetings.]] This is a law of urgent measures to protect the right to housing and social services, where you want to regulate out-of-court dispute resolution procedures, where you find people in a situation of residential exclusion, or who are at risk of being there. Highlighting, as the principles of the law, the compliment of the social function of property– and here, Mr. Fernando Sánchez, is this: what gives meaning and enables Article 17 is this principle of the law, this social function of property– ; also, the establishment of positive action measures in favour of the most vulnerable collectivities, public policies, preventive actions and, of course, and as Congressman Terrades has also said, sufficient public resources. It defines some forms of action, such as mediation in the field of consumption, the temporary expropriation of empty habitats, the obligation of relocation, the expropriation of the right of use, among others. Also in this law is created the housing commission, assistance for situations of social emergence, we participate, here yes, all related actors to coordinate, intervene and monitor the mediation processes or, also, to be able to establish common criteria, or to inform and, if necessary, also to be able to denounce. A law that emphasizes the mediation and follow-up of persons at risk of residential exclusion, proposing sanitation plans that help to restore the economic situation of the debtor, whether personal or family. A law that also regulates the forced expropriation of the temporary use of habitat for a minimum period of four years or a maximum of two years. A law that says the relocation obligation, in certain assumptions of persons or family units at risk of residential exclusion. In this area, I would like to point out and highlight the compromise that has been approved in question, where it is said that priority should be given to relocating to the usual housing affected by the debt and, if it is not possible, this alternative housing should be located in the same municipal term. A new article 19 is also drafted on paper with reference to social reports of vulnerability and judicial proceedings of exclusion from mortgage or denunciation. Then there is a second block of items, which is incorporating the concept into the law – and I think it's very important that it's here, in a law of urgent measures – the concept of occupation without an enabling title. And incorporate in the standard how to treat from the Administration this reality. That is to say, there has been broad consensus on this subject with most groups in the Chamber, and these have been inspired, too, by the recommendations made to us by the Third Social Sector Table. The Juntes per el Si Group and the Socialist Group, together with Mr Terrades, presented a joint motion, which was approved without a vote against, only with the abstention of the People's Party and of Ciutadans. I want to thank here, at this point, the Catalonian groups Yes, it is Pot and the CUP, therefore, that they withdraw their papers and donessin support of ours, to make it strong and, let's say, to go all in the same direction. After that, there was a third block of papers, which was trying to recover articles from the Law 18/2007. Remember, as it was spoken in ponència, that this law is not the place to try to incorporate these articles. The law we are making is a law to replace the suspicious articles of the 24/2015 and not to modify the 18/2007 and, while I believe that to a large extent we all share the report that I am exhibiting here, I see that some aspects are still alive; but in any case, I have already seen their interventions and we understand it. And then, there's a fourth block of statements, I think also substances, not by the amount but by the source, which is, as Mr. Rabell said, that we've been able to do a treatment or point, to remove, to place the concept of abuse in the law. Here we firmly believe the importance of compromise to address this issue as it matters. What does that mean? So, with parliamentary guarantees, with the participation of experts and, obviously, with a process of appearances as they happen in a new law. What we can't do is say that we're making an emergency and no appearances and then trying to paste it without a new and transcendent theme and with a strong complexity, so much so that it's competitive as legal. We consider that this would cause – and in any case, I would like to believe, by the direct will of the proponents – a certain deficit – which is relevant – democratic at the time of being able to make the debate. That's why the Group of Joints for the Yes, so we presented a final arrangement where the government used to legislate on abusive or disproportionate logger. And this new regulation should address issues such as the duration of contracts, the causes of resolutions, divestments and subrogations, preferential purchasing rights, the causes of suspension and extinction, remedies and, of course, the assumption of abuse. I would like to point out that this issue and legislative proposal was adopted for all groups in the Chamber, with the forbearance of the Citizens' Group. We think it's the right and formal way to work on this subject, and more so than ever since the council, so there's already a working group that's doing it. We know and believe that taking the compromise for the law to legislate is much more powerful than approving some issues that impose criteria and have some reasonable application, as we also spoke to the question. In the intervention of Mr. Sanz, there was also talk of the issue of finances and contributions. To say only that the policies of housing in the Spanish State are of 550_million; those of the Government of Catalonia, of 110: fem una mitjana per proportionality. Let's not say they're still too much, that... just put it in context. I would also like, as I said in the principle of intervention and in the first intervention, to highlight, and I say again, huh? , although in plenary, in the Faristol it seems the contrary, so the attitude and the tone and the compromise of all the proponents of the parliamentary groups; that there is the burden that it must be urgent, if we do not want to follow it would not be and, therefore, here we all do not have to congratulate each other. They have incorporated themselves into the text, once girls have withdrawn them, and I have seen that, in the voting guide, they have also withdrawn some more, so, more than 50_percent of those who end up at the end of the voting are assumed in the question. And those who voted against it, and I think that's very important, it's not voting against it as much as it's said, just for how to apply it and make it possible at this point, let's say, legislation. And neither, logically, do we want to run the risk of putting on a new suspension of the rule that I think would then be difficult for the application and the final object to which it directed. When a parliament agrees what is needed and what is needed only has the repte – and the "it is only in capitals" – it has the parliamentary repte to see how it is done. And I don't think we've just identified what, but we've started aiming and looking at how with determination. I, as the rapporteur for this law, want to thank the spokesman, the electorate, the government, the governance team, the councilwoman, the predisposition, and everyone, to put it easily within the complexity of the issue. I think that today I do not know whether we should congratulate each other or not, but I think we should be relatively satisfied with the objective. We have completed with the task that is entrusted in time and form and we equip ourselves from today of nine and powerful tools, to the Administration and the municipality, to act and to face the housing emergency. We expand the network of accredited demand municipalities, from 72 to 234; we make commitments and, ultimately, we complete with the parliamentary and legislative function of being useful to the citizenry and giving answer to issues that are urgent and necessary. The approval of this law I think is a good way of clouring this year 2016, where housing emergence has unfortunately been, is sure to continue to be one of the central themes of social and family policy in this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.37.0	Thank you very much, Mr Solsona. Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Sanz, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.38.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.39.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.40.0	Yes, Mr Solsona, I wanted to tell you that we at the Congress of Deputies are going to take action and offer solutions that vaginate for the benefit of the citizenry, as we have now shown, this week, that we have managed to take action against the poor energy and also to pass the tax to the soil. [[Widow's remorse.]] Perhaps, when some go to the Congress of Deputies and only talk about referring to the referendum, they are not giving solution to people's problems. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] And it's a question that we have to think about: what does every one of us do...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.41.0	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.42.0	...to each place depending on the competitions that each Parliament has, whether it's autonomous or national. Thank you. [[Greetings. The Governance Advisor, Public Administrations and Habitatge asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.43.0	Constellera Borrás.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.44.0	Thank you, Madam President. I'd just like to take the word very briefly. In the first place, to apologize – to apologize – but this law has advanced forty-five minutes; I didn't have it expected, there was a personal matter that I couldn't avoid. And, for another band, make a thank you; a thank you to the side of the chamber and, as you know, this is a law that we did not wish for, we might say, and when we say we refer to it as the country. With the country, we wanted the Llei 24/2015 to continue. It was a recurring law and therefore we wanted to establish through, therefore, a summit to which President Puigdemont summoned us, we established that we had to make a law – a law – that gave an answer to what was suspected of this law 24/2015. Okay. First of all, thank all those who attended the various meetings for arriving here with a very elaborate, very hard-working bill. This means, in the context of the local world, for a band, the Catalan Association of Municipalities, also the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia, as well as the Assembly of Barcelona, which worked together, all of them, therefore, in a very active and very positive way. Also to the Council of Lawyers of Catalonia, which gave us guarantees that this was a law that was solid and that, therefore, I could pull forward. For another band, also, in the department, the people who worked there more directly, the secretary of Habitatge, the director of the Agency of Habitatges de Catalunya, as well as the secretary general of the department, who have acted very actively there. Also to the entities of the ILP, that if it is true that they have not been strictly, therefore, in what is the wording of this law, they have had a very positive attitude, frontist people, adding there and, therefore, in this sense, I also want to thank their efforts and their work. Also thank the rest of the entities and joints, between them that of the Hospitallet, that will present attachments to the law. And so, and now, so, once this bill came here, the grace, logically, to all the parliamentary groups – to all the parliamentary groups – for this will to make it possible for this to be a consensual law, that this was a law that arrived quickly and, therefore, so that all the assemblies of a valid tool that I could give them answer to what was left to us for the 24/2015 Law. Therefore, a law designed to deal with the people most affected by the crisis and, therefore, to prioritize mediation, to provide mechanisms to reduce empty floors, to establish that the relocation of families in a situation of exclusion, to expropriate the use of piss to great extents with causes of denunciation, to expand the number of municipalities with strong demand, and that it also serves to advance in the management of housing occupation. Therefore, in this sense, we have done what we have undertaken, without leaving any band, because there is a solid compromise to the law, which we believe we must advance in the whole matter of the leases. Therefore, without widening me further, many thanks to all the parliamentary groups to make it possible for the law to pull it forward, without this implying that we are not hopeful that it can, therefore, pull..., that the Law 24/2015 did not permanently suspend us. Thank you. [[Greetings. Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.45.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.46.0	Yes; to ask for a vote too..., add a vote, which we have already participated in before the cast, to add the final disposition fourth.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.47.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.48.0	Huh? To vote on the fourth final provision.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.49.0	Yes, the secretary has already told me. Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.50.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.51.0	Let us then proceed to the vote. We'll start by voting on the papers. First we will vote on items 2, 16, 27, 28 and 33. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 36 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on items 13, 21, 22, 40, 52 and 64. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 25 votes in favour, 108 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on items 31 and 35. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 11 votes to 97, with 25 abstentions. We will continue to vote on exams 36, 45 and 49. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 36 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. We'll continue to vote for cluster number six. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 56 votes in favour, 77 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on items 42, 56, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63 and 68. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 19 votes to 88, with 25 abstentions. We will then vote on items 55 and 58. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 31 votes to 77, with 25 abstentions. We will continue to vote for the item number 17. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 10 votes to 98, with 25 abstentions. We will continue to vote on item 25 on Article 12. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The Emena 23 on Article 12... [[Widow's remorse.]] Let's repeat the vote, because I didn't say it was transactional. We must therefore repeat the vote. It's a compromise, it's a 23 on Article 12. The vote begins. The item was adopted by 113 votes to 20, with no abstentions. We now vote on transactional item 51, number 51, on the third final provision. Transactional thread... [[Funnel veils]] 51 - 51. Transactional theme, is number 51, on the third final provision. The vote begins. The draft resolution was adopted by 123 votes to 10, with no abstentions. We shall now proceed to vote on the text of the opinion. The vote is divided by articles and we have one at a time. We begin by voting on Rule 1.1. The vote begins. The article was approved by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. Now we will vote on Article 4, letters a, b, d, e, f, g, i. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote on Article 5. The vote begins. The article was approved by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote on Article 8. The vote begins. The article was approved by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. We will then vote on Article 10. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 108 votes to 25. We will continue to vote on Rule 16.6. The vote begins. The article was approved by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote on Article 16.9. The vote begins. The article was approved by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. We could all vote now, couldn't we? Yeah, yeah, yeah... [[Rialles and remorse of the eyes.]] But if I get separated, I do it separately. So, can we all vote now, Article 17...? Oh, they already say no? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They say no. [[Widow's remorse.]] Let us vote on Rule 17.3. Come on, then. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 97 votes to 36, with 36 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the rest of Article 17. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 122 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. We will continue to vote on Rule 18.4. The vote begins. The article was approved by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote on Article 19. The vote begins. The article was approved by 108 votes to 25, with no abstentions. We will then vote on the first additional provision. The vote begins. The provision was adopted by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. We will then vote on the fourth additional provision. The vote begins. The provision was adopted by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. We will then vote on the additional Sisena provision. And can you vote together with the final disposition first or not? 'Cause now... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] So, go. Let's vote on the additional Sisena provision. The vote begins. The additional Sisena provision was adopted by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote on the first final provision. The vote begins. The first final provision was adopted by 97 votes to 24, with 11 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the fourth final order. The vote begins. The fourth final provision was adopted by 97 votes to one, with 35 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the final order of the Sisena. The vote begins. The Sisena final provision was adopted by 97 votes to 11, with 25 abstentions. We shall then vote on the rest of the text of the opinion. The vote begins. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] The Law on Measures to Protect the Right to Housing of Persons at Risk of Social Exclusion has been passed by 132 votes in favour, against and against. [[The applause continues.]] Well, thank you very much. Keep going. [[Draft law on ports and transport in maritime and continental waters (debate of totality)]] [[200-00014/11]] The eighth item on the agenda is a debate on the totality of the Port Law and Transport Project in maritime and continental waters. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative is presented on behalf of the Government of the Generality by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.52.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Vice-President, Counsellor, Members, Members, Manager of Ports de Catalunya..., now the Secretary of Mobility and Infrastructures will be incorporated, who, in fact, has played a very important role at the time of writing this law..., but the same thing that has happened to us in the matter of housing: the substance before the hour. This is a law that meets two essential criteria. A first criterion forms part of the modernizing agenda of the Government i of the country – the modernizing agenda of the Government i of the country. And we'd like it more from the country than from the government, strictly. It's a very broad, very extensive law, it's a great country law. We're talking more than two hundred articles, so it's a country-structuring law. And, second, we like to talk about a law, let's say, with a state mind, a law thought great, with capitals. That's the calling. In fact, this modernizing agenda is to use the best tools we have at our disposal. And, besides, it's a law that is trying to value a model of success that we've been able to build among all of us. In fact, since the Law of 98 there have been various governments, in Catalonia they have governed various political forces, but we have been able to squeeze, to raise the maximum level of yield to this Law of 98. Therefore, the basic idea would be: we want a law of ports that can give us answers and instruments to develop the Catalan port system of the 21st century. I insist, thinking big. The law of the year 98 had two great objectives: the first is to give response to the development and construction of our ports, and, second, the better of the level of infrastructures that existed. So, the law in force, the law in '98, what does it do? Encourage the construction of new infrastructures. To hear us, it's the machine; using the Anglo-Saxon concept, it's the hardware, huh? Therefore, we have a law that has given us coverage to build the port infrastructure that we have at these times. And we, from the government, consider that it is already practically complete, that it will be difficult to build us ports in Catalonia, because the infrastructure we have, let us say, in many good conditions, both the ownership of the Generality, as the ports of general interest, and that this law is also designed to be able to advance them. The law of '98 was a law designed, just like that, for nautical ports. The law of the 98 gave answer to a given context and served to develop a harbour system that fixed that in the time of crisis has not returned no concession and is financially self-sufficient. Therefore, this is an idea that is fundamental at the time of approaching the new law that we will do. The system of ports of Catalonia is self-financing, that means that, with the assumptions of the Generality of Catalonia, with the resources obtained from the fiscal effort of the Catalans, we do not practically allocate resources to make the ports of Catalonia work. And this is a basic element. Therefore, we have a lot of port systems, which is able to generate economic activity, but which has no negative impact, for example, on policies linked to the state of the country's welfare, on education, education, health care, social policies. And this is a positive element. And, therefore, what I said to them: the maintenance and improvement of the port system does not cost money, in presuppostarial terms. And another time that is very powerful: public and private investments have been generated for more than 90 million euros in the last five years. How many millions of euros are many or few? Mirin, at the level of reelers, the Generalitat de Catalunya, with these assumptions that now..., extended the year 16, we have only been able to invest 36_million euros. Therefore, 90_million euros are a lot of resources. At the Department of Lands and Sustainability level, who are the spearheads of our public investment capability? Fixed, the Catalan Agency of Water, now that we have managed to emerge from the economic crisis, because it has the canon of water; the Agency of Residus, with less intensity, because it has the canons of residues; Ports of Generality, because it has a system of self-financing, and later the Catalan Institute of Sol. This one's got a good part and a bad part, too, huh? The bad part is that in what refers to Catalonia's ordinary financial system we have very little public investment capacity – very little public investment capacity. From here, what do we have today? Today we face the finalization of many concessions that were made to build new ports and new docks. We must face the threat of climate change with respect to the maritime front, a generational change in port users, an opening of ports to their cities for the disappearance of physical barriers, such as security elements. It is fixed that the ports, in this sense, in the last years, we have managed to change much; there is no longer that border that was not invisible, but perfectly tangible. And, later on, there is a paradigm shift, from a point of view of the new needs: we do not have a law to build new ports, but to manage them better, to open them to the cities, to give legal certainty to the collaborations between the public and private spheres, which in Catalonia we speak mostly of nautical clubs. This is a very powerful idea, which means that the same users, grouped in professional managers, who incorporate a lot of value added to port management, are able to administer all the various uses and the various activities that pass to the port: the nautical, the sports, the cultural, the touristic, the crucibles, the llogger of vaixells, the restoration, the oci, the trade, the fishing, the industry, the nautical... I mean that there is a collaboration between the various actors, between the various agents. The new law obviously also provides for the possibility of strictly public management, but it will depend on each case. And if there is this collaboration with civil society, this gives you guarantees and legal certainty. This, for us, is a basic modernizing element. Therefore, the law that we are presenting seeks to promote a Catalan model of collaboration between sectors, of collaboration between the public regulatory and planning sector and this field... – now the secretary and the director general, to whom I want to aggravate this ability of what I gave them before, to think big – and this sector linked to the field of management to the private sector, eh? Thus, they intend to provide clear conditions for the relationship with the Administration, a form of concession that prevails the expert in the management, favours this investment, that is not only public, but above all from the private incentive, and they go for a model of public ports opened to the municipality; with clear concessions rules to manage, invest and do public work – public work, I subratllo –, with clear terms, based on the concessional balance and the depreciation of the investment. We think it has to be this way, we think that with the presupposed resources we have to do other things, we have to do everything that is linked to the strength of the welfare state and everything that you assume the basis for the creation of economic activity. Therefore, we are talking about a model that has various characteristics, and degreased these characteristics. It's a model of open ports in cities. The ports... Here I see the mayor and that will be put from the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, the mayor of Vilanova. I have had the opportunity to visit the port of Vilanova on various occasions. It's a very clear example of that. Ports like an area more of the city, interconnected, barrier-free, an infrastructure where things happen and that has to be a stimulus to the generation of economic activity and to the generation of sports, cultural, social activity, all year long. The one who gave them, that model of closed port, armored to the urban plot, no longer has any sense; we do not want it to have any sense towards the future. With urbanistic instruments that start from the dialog and consensus between the port managers and the assemblies; we create this figure, the urbanistic master plans, but always starting from the base that are either an instrument of consensus with the territory or have no sense. That's the idea. Through these master plans provided for in the law, we must quickly update this urban planning, which we will always agree with the assemblies, which will have the lead in it. He gave them a model of open ports to the city, but a model of ports that are economic engines of the country, for fishing, for tourism, for trade, for restoration, for the construction industry, repair, maintenance of ships, for the shiplogger, with a law that seeks to promote the maximum use of land and sea spaces. When I told them that this law is a modernizing law, it is in the measure that it allows us to become an economic activity locomotive. It allows us, through this law, through the port activity, to have the ability – a very tangible thing – to create jobs, and many are creating jobs, not only in relation to nautical, I insist; we move from a nautical law to a law with a more all-encompassing view. A model of ports where you can take advantage and get the maximum yield from all the spaces; take advantage and take advantage of what we had before we set ourselves new enlargements. So, fix yourself, huh? , the concept: the layout is not to make ports for us, but to manage well what we already have at these times. And the concept is not to grow, but to take advantage of the spaces there is. And then, if we believe that there has to be growth, we'll grow, but we have to make it as profitable as we have at these times. A model of ports on which, like the tourist industry, we have to be able to gather those who pass before our coast, world's boarding houses, with passengers who know our country for the first time by means of ports. And here is the situation of the port of Barcelona, an element of pride; for us it is an element of pride, the fourth most important port of creuers all over the world. The first three are, all three, in the state of Florida, in the United States. And what we want is, the creuer system, not only to limit it to the port of Barcelona, but at these times the port of Tarragona is already open, we are working at the port of Ràpita, at the port of Palamós, and therefore this will to expand this... – or at the port of Roses – this ability to expand this activity. A model of ports with a public vocation – with a public vocation – where there are spaces for popular nautical and where it is promoted, by means of sport and school, the knowledge of activity at sea. And here I have the words of Secretary Ricard Font. We are a triangle, just like the country, where the hypotenuse looks at the sea. And I'm sure it's time to take a closer look at the near sea, so we have to be able to do more in terms of activity. A model of sustainable and secure ports before the threat of climate change, and from this perspective is a 2.0 law. It was a law, let's say, that I had no sense if we didn't incorporate this notion of adaptation to the climate change. And mitigation, too; the effort being made by the ports and the effort being made by the port of Barcelona and the port of Tarragona and the other ports being made from a point of view of mitigation, but above all adaptation. Things will happen on the maritime front and our ports must have the ability to anticipate. The law must take into account that it will be necessary to protect our ports in front of the sea that at these times they are clear, they are already obvious. With these times there has been, there is a very striking picture, which is what has passed to the Plaja de la Marquesa, for example, to the Delta de l'Ebre. It's really hitting what's happened at these moments. And now put, let's say, the delinquent is Carthago, who know that it is there a costume of the Department of Territories and Sustainability. If there's anyone who doesn't believe in the climate change, going to Hebrew, going to the Ebro Delta, and he'll understand what the climate change means. Maybe I'll do a parentheses in the parentheses: we'll call the president-elect of the United States, come in, apologize, and see him, and see him. Because this is not a chimera, this is a reality that we need to be able to manage properly. A model of net ports. The law favors port management based on environmental excellence. A model of ports with different views with different interests and needs, which need to coexist in these limited spaces. The multiplicity of uses has to be taken into account and the law orders and favors the relationship between all uses. So what I was saying to them: the law of 98 was basically a nautical law. This is a law that questions all sectors and gives out to all sectors, starting with fishing, with fish, with fish, with sport, with trade...; authentic sources of economic activity. A model of port front where it will be necessary to take advantage and some measures before they were insisted upon, before the construction of new infrastructures, with the will to protect the landscape and some natural plateaus and surroundings that form part of the indissociable heritage, which is today Catalonia and what we want to continue to feel our birth. That's why we need to take advantage of what we have, and the law wants to encourage us to take advantage of the spaces that we already have at these times. And here I make another parenthesis: fix yourself, this is a model that we would like to be able to share with the whole chamber. The law of the territory is making it, incorporating, a new paradigm, which is that we no longer want an expansionary urbanism, from a point of view of using only, but we want an urbanism based on urban recycling. At the level of port law, it's exactly the same: we want to take advantage of what already exists at these times, by virtue of the deployment that we made on the basis of the law of 98. A port model that has to age for quality and recognize excellence. And that's why we plan... – this is one of the elements that called for the most attention at the time of formulating the law – we intend to classify ports as hotels, to hear us, huh? , that there are various categories and that this allows, essentially to the concessionaire, to constantly be with this mindset of overcoming, to offer the highest level of quality in relation to the port project that they want for each of the ports. A port integrative model of the port to the city as a whole and, as apart from the city, it is necessary to be able to develop all kinds of uses that are compatible with the port activity of the city. Another time Vilanova and the Geltrú. That is to say, at the port there are things, many, in all areas. I was given the opportunity to visit one of the wires linked just to the environment and the wire was finished, just, at the port. From the port there was the activity, an activity that widened throughout the Rambla... – it seems to me that it is said « Rambla –, all the Rambla of Vilanova and the Geltrú. A model of self-sufficient and supportive ports reversed it with a tax system to the law that does not incorporate new tax pressure. This is a subject that we want to highlight: it does not incorporate new fiscal pressure and, also, it ensures the self-sufficiency of the system itself, without resorting to investments that we need to make through public assumptions. An innovative port model, open, public, social, economic engine of high added value, diverse, attractive, sustainable, with multiple uses and where the relationship with the Administration is simple and easy. This is also part of our modernizing agenda. A model of Administration..., which commented on them, that is port, that is clear and agile and simple, where the department, the Department of Territories – the Department of Territorial Policy, tell us how vague, to the department –, regulates, plans and guarantees public interest and legal certainty. The company Ports de la Generalitat manages investments and relations between the Administration and the managers in an expeditious manner. And, therefore, we straighten the model. It's a much more rational model than the one we had now, which had some expressions of crevice, to hear us; it was overly diverse and, above all, dispersed. We are now incorporating an element of rationalization. A complete port model that today conforms to 47 ports of competence of the Generalitat. And that... the law is designed not for 47, but for 49 ports. The law is designed for the 47 that at these times are of the Generality and the law is designed for the port of Barcelona and for the port of Tarragona. It is a law designed to make it possible to manage the entire Catalan port system in its full breadth. And, therefore, we give an answer. And, later on, I end up as it began: a law that wants to consolidate a model of success, which is this concessional model in which users are managers, they are investors, they run the risk and chance of investments and port maintenance, and they release these resources. Yesterday we spoke, in an inquiry made by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Yes, the deputy Marc Sanglas, we talked about concessions. And I used to quote Espriu when he said to him, "We have lived to save your words, have we? So, let's get back the concept of "concession." And "concession is granted if there is risk and chance, it is not granted if there is always a win-win of the same, exactly of the same. And, therefore, through the port system, we value the concession mechanism, which allows us to extend as much as possible the capacity to transform from public power. This is the key and this is the modernizing idea. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as we always do from the Junts for the Yes Government, this bill of law that we put at your disposal is a starting point; I think it is a starting point, honestly, worked, very technically solid, but it is a starting point. You are the masters of the laws that come from this chamber. And, therefore, from the government – and this is the message that we have conveyed to the leaders of the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for the Yes – we always understand that the processing of laws must go in the sense that when we approve this law does not follow a law of the government, but is a law of the country; and a law of the country means that with structural laws we have to be able to take effect for a long time, that governments that governments, this is a great instrument to be able to generate progress, modernize the country and generate prosperity. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.53.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Rull. Next, to defend the totality, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word "Mrs. Marina Bravo".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.54.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillor..., Catalonia has more than seven hundred kilometers of coast, if we go through all its breaks, almost eight hundred, and the activity on its coast is of great nautical importance, fishing..., has already been commented here. The Law 5/98, of ports of Catalonia, was the first norm in this matter that we are dealing with today and it is the one that is still in force: a norm of 1998. Many things have happened since then, we will not deny it, and there have been many changes that we really believe should be taken into account and that justify a revision of the law. There have been new European directives, there have been changes in state legislation, the sector has evolved, the economic situation has also changed, and there is something else, Mr Councillor, which has also changed since 1998 to worse, and it is the common sense, the sense of responsibility and the sense of reality of this government, which is committed today to continuing in a world of fiction, which is committed to continuing the tide of loss and is committed to prolonging the deception and to making a thousand jugglings to lengthen that path within the maze of which they neither come out nor want to leave. And we're not here for hobbies. It is our duty here to make the laws as best as possible, those that citizens, businesses, administrations need to carry out their function, and to put aside any other film. Because, you know what's going on? That within three years we will continue here and nothing will have changed, and we will have to apply those laws; we will have to apply these laws that are cheating and deceptive. That I don't know who they're trying to fool, but I do know who they're hurting, and it's the Catalans. In three years' time... in fact, I don't even know where I'll be; maybe in some ports, I'm quite interested. But I can tell you where I've been, and besides being a citizen, I've worked in the private company and I've worked in the administration, in an infrastructure administration precisely. And from these three sites I have already seen the damage that an article can do that, let's say, is unclear; an article like those that can contain this law. There are already unclear articles in the legislation in force – in Catalan, in the state – and they give many problems, I assure you, but what we cannot allow is for this ambiguity to be intentional. There is an article, in particular, in this bill that personally almost hurts me and it is article 31, which defines the port public domain. With how important it is that this concept is clear, much more than the railway public domain, and that I know well from experience and I know that it is already very difficult to put it into practice. I am not going to go into technical details, but here it mixes the water surfaces and the land with the property and rights ownership of the port administration. All this without clarifying what happens to the terrestrial maritime public domain. I do not want to think about the poor official who has to grant or not any authorization, or about the company that wants to apply and does not know well or is not clear on what to comply with. There are more things. A much less technical one. It already says in the preamble that the first book contains ‘one of the most innovative elements of the law. That's what it says, and it's about the concept of a port system. The concept is not trivial in the law because article 1 already says that the object of the law is precisely to regulate this port system; article 2 says that the scope of application is precisely this port system. And it is in article 4 that it is defined, and it is defined thus: "All port infrastructures located in the territory of Catalonia and the services and activities regulated in this law. That's how it defines port service. The Generalitat of Catalonia has exclusive competence over the ports located in the territory of Catalonia over which it does not have the legal qualification of general interest, it puts it in the first phase of the preamble. Well, don't you think it would be good to mention what happens to these ports of general interest? The previous legislation, that of 1998, reflected it in the scope of application and was much better. So if this law ends up returning to the government as we have proposed, at least we will have gained clarity in this article. But no, they like it that way, so that, although I have not said it so clearly here, I can say in some forums that it applies to Barcelona and Tarragona in others not. And who do you think hurts that? I'm telling you, the Catalans. If they want to defend disconnection, make gestures, make demonstrations, they are in their right, but do not ruin laws that are necessary or risk that they cannot go forward because both if this law comes forward, bad, and if it does not go forth it harms Catalans. There are quite a few more articles that can justify the amendment as a whole. The ninth additional provision, for example, states that the Generalitat Police exercises in the infrastructures of the port system their functions of integral police. This is where we're going to put the whole thing out again. Is the port system all the ports of Catalonia? We have..., as it says in article 4, " integral police, integral..., what a good thing. We are talking about ports, which are points of entry for people and goods, and there is no mention of the functions of fiscal safeguard or alien, of which there is nothing but to imagine that they know the distribution of existing competences. Laws must serve to order and not to generate doubts. And here it is not that it is unclear, it is that we have already heard different interpretations from this same government. Look, in his presentation today he told us that this was a starting point that they presented honestly so that you could work on it. Well, we are going to withdraw our amendment as a whole and we will see in the amendments whether or not they are interested in having a really clear and useful law. And we will withdraw the amendment as a whole also because, although the Government, in its responsibility, prefers to risk that this law may not go ahead, we do believe that it is necessary. Law 18 of 2014, for example, promotes urgent measures for growth and efficiency and allows for the adaptation of concessional plans to improve the competitiveness of ports. We believe it is important to bring the legislation into line with this new proposal as soon as possible. It is essential to promote the growth of operators and users who develop value-generating activities through efficient port services. To this end, it will be crucial to facilitate the materialization, as I said, of investments in infrastructure and services. The port council does not see it as clear, at least as it stands. And in this and in some other points we will be tabling amendments, but the clarification of the responsibilities of planning, management and management does seem necessary and fundamental to us. Improving transparency and administrative simplification in the relationship between operators and the Administration is also key. Please think of all those who are going to be affected by this law and offer them the clearest and most real wording possible. For the fictitious world? Draft all the fictitious laws you want, but when real laws are drafted, the ones we're going to have to comply with tomorrow, please put your feet on the ground. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.55.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bravo. Do I understand that the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans withdraws the message to the totality? [[Someone said, "Yes.]] Okay. Next, we proceed to the turn of interventions to fix its position. In the first place, has the word Mr Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.56.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, when he presented this law to us, he said: "The law of 98 was a law that basically regulated the nautical sector. Now we need a more structured law, don't we? , a law..., I don't know if he added to the "state", but it was understood in his intervention. Just this is a text, from our point of view, that has a very technical guide and looks like an adaptation, huh? , to state law; for this reason I make reference to the "state structure" that you did not say. But, well, anyway, it's a law that has a lot to see..., "has a lot to see..., has similarities, huh? With the law that regulates ports at the level of the state council and that it was a law that was widely debated, right? , for all political formations with presence in the Congress of Deputies, also for the Government of the Generality, with disagreements and encounters around the text. The public domain of the ports is maintained, as it could not otherwise be – it cannot be much different from the articulation that also makes the Law of ports of the State. We did not present the whole issue, because we believe that what we have just done is to improve some of the aspects of this law in some questions, that we have already announced that we will present the issues with the aim of clarifying some of the requirements of the bill, right? We will not go into the issue of urban use in the service area of the ports, which is certainly more restrictive than state legislation, especially for the possibility of establishing hotel establishments. Yes, there's a theme that at the end of my intervention I'm going to go in there and that's going to be a part, that's a part of our concerns, that's the system of renewal and extension of concessions, huh? You've done a... you've already done it yesterday, you've done a defense of the concessions again, in the sense... that I agree with you, huh? : it can't be that, with this concession capitalism that there is, the win-win ones, they always win them, huh? No, no, you have to go at risk. But there are some aspects that we want to comment on, huh? , and that in the case of the ponència and in the set of items that we will present in this sense. It seems to us the proposal they make, in the sense of fixing the economic and financial self-sufficiency of the system. Nor do we change too much from what is the concept of the conjunction of state law. It's true that the text is written so that I can unplug a hypothetical transp... and I'm not going into the dialectics right now, huh? , but a hypothetical, in the following form, of the two ports of general interest, of the Port of Barcelona and the Port of Tarragona. The instrument should be the Pla de portes; I think it is the one that sets the same rules that they have presented to us to discuss. There's a distance, which you've come in... and here there's probably a point of difference in our vision, huh? You have spoken about the climate change, you have made a defense..., "a defense..., you have shown some of the concerns that the government is concerned about and that our parliamentary group is also concerned about the themes of adaptation. Clearly, he has neglected to say, or as I have not even heard, that what you foresee the law is that it is the concessions that will have to face the necessary measures to ensure that they do not affect the environment; absolutely agree. Now, this introduces a possibility to extend the enabling title of the concessions, huh? And here we say: "Ep! We don't have to talk. And these are the fears that in the processing that we will start from then on, so my parliamentary group will want to talk: all those questions that the law has fixed, huh? , or assignor, from the point of view of costs, to the concessionaires, whether or not this enables them to expand concessions. This will be one of the debates that we want to discuss. Saying in another way, we don't want to fall into the concessional regime or the one that was used to extend the concessional regime of toll freeways to Catalonia, for example, huh? Because, of course, everyone says or everyone in the background says: "We are against monopolies, but we want to have the concession as long as possible. That's the conclusion that..., or can I untie, huh? I'm not saying I'm telling the law, am I? But some dealers of some of the facilities that are managed from this point of view – because not all forty-seven ports are managed in the same way – claim that the concession will be extended. We diem: "Well, let's talk about it, let's talk about who should be the conditions of the enabling titles. There's another question, it's the one that refers to Article 74, which is where it's about the dredging and openings in the public domain, huh? Here we also want to put up an alarm bell, and I'll tell you that we'll present a message in this sense, eh? , because it seems to us that as you have raised it there is a certain latitude in how to act, and all these operations, which are probably to be done, must be made clear that they must be subservient to strategic environmental assessment, and this is the text that we have from the table does not foresee. And this is the big debate, huh? This is one of the big debates. I agree with the advisor that we probably don't need any more ports in Catalonia, even though there are some initiatives to do something about it, right? , and even submissive to the citizen's consultation. We don't think it's gonna be any more, do we? It may be more accurate to the law, but this is one of the contradictions that the system has. We have forty-seven ports, and somewhere, huh? , depending on how we have marine currents and storms that we have in Catalonia from time to time, we find that many of the country's landings are without a smile, because of the layout of the ports. And this coexistence between ports and beaches or the city's pleasure, too, of enjoying certain spaces are questions we don't have to talk about, huh? : dredging, all..., how nautical installations and ports coexist with the country's conjunction. In the background, these are the questions that we want to raise. We also want to deepen this reflection that the councillor has made us... That is to say, the government believes that we do not have to grow or we do not have more ports, but we have to improve, adapt, "expand, it has escaped, if necessary, the installations we have. Well, I think this is the big debate there is or we'll have on the board to try to have a new and a better law of ports. We come to this debate with constructive, positive, spirit to seek an agreement that allows us to have a structured law, huh? – I will not go any further: a structuring law – around this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.57.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. Next, to fix your position, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.58.0	Good morning, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies..., salute the secretary general, the department team, the director general of Ports... Well, we believe that this law..., in principle make a valuation in favor of this law, because it develops an exclusive competence, because we believe that the Law of Ports of 98 – twenty years ago, and with how things have changed – was already obsolete. And, in addition, the changes..., it was necessary to make a new law, but because it was necessary to transpose European directives; because there is a subject that we cannot avoid, that there has been a boom in the creuerism, we like it or not; because there have been changes in the common fisheries policy; because there have been changes in the logistic activity, etc. And, therefore, it is ugly necessary. And above all, you said it, counselor, it's ugly to order the sector, because right now, so, like we do on highways, right? , some concessions were beginning to fall, there were conflicts arising from enlargements and the need to put it in order. Also, because the law wants to integrate the ports into the territorial area and because Catalonia is a very small country, but very different, because we have ports that have fishing, logistic activity, more, in a natural environment like that of the delta and, more, with the activity of the Creuerista, on the side of small fishing ports, like the Cala or Llançà, on the side of the great ports, like Tarragona and Barcelona, that, even if it is the competence of the State because they are of general interest, they are in our territory and there are many fears in which we intervene as administration, and until the situation of..., no? Between us and the State, so, well, you have to count on that, too. Also, because there is an interdepartmental and collaborative issue, and here there are a lot of interests, and sometimes they are interested, and I think the law has resolved it: the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries, Tourism, the General Secretary of Sport, the Department of Territories, the whole logistics issue... Therefore, many interests that require this coordination and collaboration. I'll order in a few blocks my intervention. See, the law is fine and it's solved... doesn't mean that there are aspects that we think are going to get better and that are going to go further, that's what we're going to try to do with the parliamentary process. For example, respect the report made by CTESC..., which you have incorporated many of the suggestions, of the recommendations, but we believe that they have left two very important: a reference to Article 28, which is the major achievement of the Council of Ports. For us it is important, because it is very good to determine, at least in the law – because the rule will not vote it, but the law, yes –, it is very good to determine who does not have to form part, who has common interests, because in the end the coast is a common good. And yet in the divestitures it is said, isn't it? That when the demanial good is given over to the excluded and excluded use..., the coast is a common good and, as well as the common good, there are people who have legitimate interests. And, therefore, I think it's important, for reasons of transparency, model change, citizens' rights, to say who might be there. Also in Article 79, which we will also do here – and I said so in Terrades too, right? – that they are all environmental parts; and here I will make a block. The CTESC told them: they could have incorporated questions like, for example, what happens to those vessels, right? , with propulsion and maintenance systems that affect the quality of the area, and that should take measures to reduce this gas emission. And here I link with the whole environmental block. What I'm also saying to you, counselor: with regard to the Law of 98, I congratulate you because you have incorporated many environmental aspects and related to climate change, energy model. Therefore, I congratulate you because you have incorporated this look. But, of course, from an eco-socialist force like ours we want to go more there, and therefore, as we want to go more there, so, for example, man, in the objectives of the law would not be people hardly add, apart from all the objectives, that ports also want to age as a strategic infrastructure for environmental sustainability. It wouldn't be a bad thing for us to make it clear what part of it is that we are very concerned about the Pla de Ports. The Pla de portes and the Pla director urbanístic portuari. Sometimes you know that the ports have been used for, through these specific master plans, jumping exceptionalities from the Law of Costs and being able to build less than a hundred_metres. Example: the Port Vell of Barcelona, with the special Pla of the new mouth. Therefore, we must see, with this Pla harbour urbanist director, as we do to preserve that there is not a figure, like all the master plans, that can jump a lot above all urban planning. And especially here we are also concerned about how we will integrate it into the new territorial policy law, into the new territorial law that is being done, right? , how to integrate these two figures. As far as climate change issues are concerned, we are fine, incorporating things, but we believe that we are timidly. Articles 1, 2 and 3, we believe that when you say that you can require managers to develop affective studies, man, whatever happens, you won't be able to. I think he's gonna have to do it eventually. And here we also agree, don't we? , with Terrades when he said: "On change, they will expand the concession. Well, let's look at it, let's look at five cases and how. He's always leaving you a lot in the field of 'can't', isn't he? For example, when there is all the articulation of dredgings, avocations, when you say, for example, at point 3: "When there are avocations you can punish. No, no, you see, when there are outbreaks, we have to make it clear that when there are certain types of outbreaks, it cannot be punished: it must be punished. Because that's possible, no. And besides, when you haven't just defined..., I suppose this will have to be clarified regularly, but you say: "Innocent materials for the environment. Home, therefore, I don't know what is harmless, we define what is harmless and what quantities it is, because a certain chemical product in a small quantity or in whatever environment it may be harmless, but if it is in a lot of quantity it stops being harmless and affects the environment. I mean, I still think that through the papers we can make it better. In the same way, in the sanctions regime on environmental issues, therefore, I also believe that it is short. And some of us are missing, we think they should go into the very heavy gap pack as they affect this common good that's the sea. And besides, the Mediterranean, the Mediterranean, which is so fragile, we have it so..., it's so fragile and we have to age so much to take care of... You know, it's one of the most threatened March, so, we follow this example in our country. Also, as far as he's concerned, we're going to put papers on the whole side of the media for prevention and fight against contamination. Because, here, by experience, we know that when the Camcat is activated, in the end, I don't know if it has now acquired more resources, the Generality, but we really have few resources to deal with and the dealers also have few resources and, really, who have powerful resources here – barriers, pipes, vessels that clean – is the State. And so, here, if we want, if we have a vocation to be able to manage our ports well, I think we should have sufficient mechanisms or require the concessionaire to have the resources to act. And that also connects with the whole issue of security, doesn't it? , as such coordination, this cooperation on security issues. Because you know, we've been to the port of Barcelona and we've dealt with this room, we've had problems with port police issues, haven't we? The paper that plays the port police, the local police, the moves... Of course, we still don't have a law of the police of Catalonia that you integrate, for example, all the local police, moves and police. Therefore, this is a subject that we will also have to finish, to see how we integrate it. And we will also have to determine whether or not we integrate rural agents here, because we have forgotten one thing, that rural agents, by law, by law of this Parliament, the Rural Agents Cos are the ones who have the task of vetting for prevention, to take care of the natural environment, to take care of the coast of the Mediterranean coast and, therefore, let us say to ourselves, who have the competence of the ecological police; at the moment, they are the rural agents. We'll have to look, somehow, I don't know if with the law or when you do the rules, how they fit in. And then, the other package would refer to the issues related to the whole concessional regime as well. Mr. Terrades said so. We are concerned, precisely because of this, because I believe that there must be the possibility that those gatherings that can be carried out by public management, will have the facilities, because that is what we say: the coast is a common good. Another theme, the reviews of the local world, and concretely of the Barcelona Assembly. We know that many of these items have been incorporated – I look at the secretary –, yes, many have been incorporated, but there are some that have not yet been incorporated, for example, the theme that related to the special rule for Barcelona and that gave everything that the subject of works and activities related to port uses had been submitted to municipal control. I think we can get here, put together some stuff, we can come to an agreement. And, lastly, I think it would also be useful to define the mechanisms of cooperation, more, to finish defining better the mechanisms of collaboration, cooperation, from institutional, inter-administrative loyalty, both with the two ports that are still of general interest, depending on the State, but also with some joints that have important ports, and ports. I think of Vilanova, but others, don't I? And that they have important ports and that they will need to see this as we have just finished. I'm done. I'd be very interested in the whole environmental part, because, look, you've got a lot to see, in the end. The ports also condition the beaches, condition... We have many protection figures to develop to the Mediterranean, and some to important ports, such as the underwater cano of the clot of Sant Salvador and the part of Llançà, the part of the delta of the Ebra, the delta, that we want to expand the protection zone to ZEPIM, or the part of the Natural Park of Cap de Creus. So, this law, together with the climate change, I think it can be an opportunity because we can end up having a text that can be the best, right? , or a reference to the Mediterranean and southern Europe. With this will, we will present the papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.59.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Grau. Next, the words of Mr. Alberto Villagrasa, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.60.0	President... Counsellor, Members..., one, when you read the title, "The bill on ports and transport in maritime and continental waters, and that an amendment has been tabled in its entirety, thought: "Well, it may be that the process is watering and an attempt is being made to introduce a law to shield the process, isn't it? And when you read the content, you see it's not like that. The truth is that the bill that is intended to be discussed is not a bad text – it is not a bad text. In the end it is only an ordination and a compilation of the regulations that affects the ports of Catalonia and the uses and activities that are carried out in these ports. And don't cheat, Mr. Counselor. It is not a law that wants to create any state structure; one thing is what you say in the press, what you say at the beginning of your speech, and another thing is what the text says. And I say this to you, and I believe that Citizens have seen it too, when you have withdrawn the amendment as a whole. Therefore, let us not deceive the public, especially the most interested groups, who are affected by the content of the law. This law will not create any state structure and will only affect, as the law says, the ports in which the Generalitat does have jurisdiction. We therefore exempt those who are of general interest and who are the competence of the state. So we are faced with an opportunity to focus the debate of the ports of Catalonia in which the Generalitat has competence, and already in entry we exclude Tarragona and that of Barcelona. Yes, Mr. Counselor. The port areas, and it is true, for many municipalities of Catalonia are a focus of economic, social and cultural importance of the first order; they create new opportunities for many municipalities, and it is true that these municipalities live more and more facing the sea, trying to project and take advantage of the possibilities offered and improve the image and prestige of the city. The exploitation of these ports represents a unique opportunity both for the ownership of the city's promotion to generate new opportunities for its economy. In the society of the twenty-first century many cities and municipalities, as I said, live facing the sea, and the philosophy of the concept of the relationship of the sea with the municipalities has changed a lot for sixty or seventy years, where it is true that about seventy years ago the coast, practically, lived behind it. A proof is that the last twenty-five or thirty years the major urban actions of many coastal municipalities have been the remodeling of the change of concept of the sea walks from their harbour areas, trying to make them more public, more citizen, and equipping those of different uses of those that were made up to today. And if not, we set four very clear examples. Let us remember the port of the Forum, between San Adrián and Barcelona, how it was before its transformation, or what it was before Somorrostro and what it is today, or the Costa Brava, the Costa Dorada, the port of Badalona, the port of Mataró, the port of Sitges, or the security of Empuriabrava or Santa Margarida, which today all are reference and visit for many Catalans and for the rest of Spaniards, no longer only in concrete summer seasons, but an offer that lasts throughout the year. Today, as I said, these municipalities, their ports are part of their success, both economically, culturally, industrially and sportingly, and that activity must therefore be protected. With this law, what can we do to help them? First, let them not die of success. Second: to help them protect their activity or activities, both traditional ones and new ones that are emerging recently. Thirdly, to help protect the natural area, which is, as Mrs Grau said, "so beautiful, so rich, but at the same time so fragile when the use or abuse that is made of them. And fourthly, to help them to be economically sustainable, as you have said very well, and which is currently so. In the end, the harbour areas are great tourist and commercial claims for many municipalities, even if some specialize in sports actions, such as sailing or diving, and possibly some already proclaim new activities like kitesurfing, which currently has many difficulties for it to practice in Catalonia. The activity of leisure and nautical sports is an opportunity to give meaning and economic future to the adaptation of the ports to the present and to the changes of the trends of the future. This, the tourist offer, the ports have a vital importance to define, Mr. Counsellor, what is the profile of the tourism that these municipalities want. In the end, tourism in that municipality also determines the economy and trade, the commercial fabric of those municipalities. Precisely because of the previous uses, they had a very important fishing activity that occupied a large part of the ports, even a large physical part. Now the situation has changed, and you know it well, and you have to think about the activity of fishing as a profession and the sale of their catches; it is a profession and an activity that has fallen in recent years for different causes, that we will not now enter, but that precisely today we must protect and give the conditions necessary for their good development and their protection. In the end the law is also trying to give the tools so that the ports of Catalonia can be as self-sufficient as possible. That is where I agree with you, Mr. Counsellor, and we must give you the economic framework in which you are to move: rates, public prices, uses of these activities, moorings, etc. The more self-sufficient they are and the less dependent they are on the subsidy or public aid, the better they can ensure their viability and continuity in the future. It is true that you confuse something: when you speak of security, you speak of port police as if it were a body that already exists, and that is not true. The port police exist in the port of Barcelona and in the port of Tarragona and do not depend on the Generalitat, but are attached to the Ministry of Development. The security of the ports of Catalonia depends on the Mossos d'Esquadra, is not port police; they depend on the Mossos d'Esquadra. And as the law says, you have to ask for the cooperation of the local police, but don't talk or imply something that doesn't exist. Yes, it is true that development in the law is then the right one and is the right one, but call every thing by its name and so they will not confuse anyone. I'm finishing up, Madam President. In short: we have found ourselves, as I was saying, with a correct text, that its objective is to harmonize the legislation affecting the ports of Catalonia, and that of the People's Group we will work to try to put the amendments that we believe are necessary to complement and try to improve their content, especially in favour of interests, coastal municipalities with port areas, to the collectives interested in the good development and future of these and with the interest, too, of protecting our natural spaces. And there, Mr. Counsellor, in the debate you will find us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.61.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. Next, the words of Mr Sergi Saladié, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.62.0	All right, thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. In a normal political context, we could formally assess positively that the Government is presenting the revision and updating of a law, that of ports, which is almost twenty years old and two partial modifications between. But as we are not in a normal political context we cannot make a globally positive assessment of this Port Law Project that today we bring the Government. In addition to the CUP we say that we first need to make independence and then we will talk about the country model that we want to sort out each of us, but while you are in the accounts of basing some strategic territorial superstructures of the future country on what is dedicated is to make legislative proposals related to sectoral planning and to an ideological load, as we later comment. So, in the accounts of working to fill the law of territories, as we have already asked here in Parliament, in different motions, up to two times different, is dedicated to carrying projects like the Law Project of the architecture or now that of ports. That is to say, in the accounts of starting to discuss the foundations and structures of the new country, you are raising complementary aspects; continuing to go country by country, as you have always been, we do not seem to be the most coherent or more intelligent way of starting to build a new country. Even so, with this criticism, this law will pass through the Commission of Territories and there, therefore, we will work to complement and improve it; however, as it is laid down in the current terms, it will be very difficult for us to obtain the final positive vote of our parliamentary group. A small contextualization of the port model that we have the principality, to situate all of us. We have in Catalonia about 780 kilometers of coast with forty-seven ports and two inland marines, to more than other marine installations. We have, therefore, a port every six and a half kilometers. From this point of view we could say that we have plenty of railway infrastructure..., before the councillor also referred to this question of the oversize in which we can all convince that we are located in the matter of ports. In relation to ownership, it has also been commented on and it is widely known that we have forty-seven..., of forty-seven ports, two are of ownership and state competence, that they are Barcelona and Tarragona, and the rest are the competence of the autonomous community, currently managed by the Government of Catalonia. As for the uses that have these ports, of the forty-seven ports, there are forty-five that have nautical activity, which we know popularly as sports ports; twenty-four have a fishing use; five have commercial activity – mainly those of Barcelona and Tarragona, but also those of Ràpita, Vilanova and Palamós – and two are exclusively industrial, which are linked to cement activity, such as those of Alcanar and Vallcarca. With this context, we are going to enter with the central aspects of our criticism of this law. We have detected three critical aspects: the first is the primacy of the investment and the private management oriented to the luxury nautical and the creuers; the second critical point is the poor regulation of the environmental impact of the ports and the harbour activity in general, and, three, which, in our opinion, continues to feel an autonomous law. First of all, the primacy of the reversal and private management oriented to the luxury nautical and the crucibles. The nautical sector would include from the concept of sports nautical all those vessels which do not have a specific activity or a defined use and which are used as personal vessels for mobility and landing. As an example, traditional vessels with sails and small boats were embedded in this category, and they began to open up to this spectrum until they arrived at vessels that we would call popularly wide or iots. According to the Pla de portes in force, of 2006, there is a capacity, there was a capacity in that year, to tie about 28,000..., almost 29,000 sports boats with a surface of about 5_million_de_metres_squares– the terrestrial half, the marine half– ; currently, we are on the 33,000 moorers. It can be said, therefore, that Catalonia represents one of the focus of the concentration of nautical infrastructures in the Spanish State: the year 2005 we had almost 15_percent of the total number of ports in the State and 25_percent of the total number of dockers, that is, one_de_cada_four dockers was located in the Principality of Catalonia. Another feature of sport ports is that they have historically been managed through water clubs or joints. The year 2006 was twenty-nine ports, a 61_per_cent; the rest, to a lesser extent, at that time was managed by private mercantile companies: divided ports, which represented a 39_per_cent. In general, sport ports, another feature they have is that they have very low levels of occupation – they are only significant in July and August months – and with a medium of use of the « ships of only four days and a half per year. That is to say, we have large installations, with environmental impacts that we will later mention, because boats are only used four days and a half a year. And I think that we should reflect, as in society, on what we're doing in the matter of..., or what we've been doing in the matter of ports all this time. The nautical sector, quantitatively, finds itself in a certain stagnation, it is obvious, it is an activity that is expensive, all that is to water is because, and more, in concrete terms, in the matter of nautical, and, therefore, since the economic crisis of 2007-8, it has encouraged all this growth that it had been able to tend in previous years. We are at a 3_per_cent growth level in the global period from 2011 to 2015. For another band – a small parenthesis – there is a significant drop in the fishing sector, of 17_percent of the vessels. That's to say, sports nautical is growing a little, and what we're losing pretty much is all about the fishing sector. In change, what we do observe is a qualitative change, with a tendency to grow larger boats, is to say, those that are from the gods, fifteen_metres, especially the segments of megayotes, those that they have or that they know..., the boats that have more than twenty-five_metres of bloom, a type of boats that can only be allowed to pay for the great fortunes. Let us think that a boat from the deu_metres d'eslora is already worth more than 150,000 euros, plus all the cost of keeping and staying at different ports. Another change, in this case, yes, quantity, we find it from the field of the crucibles, that would come barred with this nautical sector, with an important increment, above all concentrated at the port of Barcelona, with about 3_million visitors the year, but with a presence also in four other ports, such as Roses, Palamós, Vilanova and Geltrú and Ràpita, with some, overall, only 42,000 visitors the year or user the year. It is not strange, therefore, that with this context the enterprises and the great foundations of international capital identify the nautical sector and to dig as a good negotiation on investing their capital, both entering into the management of the ports by administrative concession, as in the purchase and logger of boats and moorings. All this in a context in which between 2017 and 2022 a little more of the half of the ports of Catalonia have to renew their concession. Therefore, from our point of view, the bill responds in a clear and concise way to the requests of this private sector and wants to flatten the way because from the next year it can enter intensely into the negotiation of the management of the ports. And all this at the expense of privatizing and electitizing the port fronts, harming the management structure closest to the territory, as we have called, the nautical clubs or the joints, as they exclude other uses or trying to separate other uses, such as sports sailing or fishing, that have a lower value added from the economic point of view but they do have other values and represent other social functions. And what's now..., what the bill wants to consolidate and empower, from our point of view, legally, is nothing more than the trend of the great investments that there are, privately, that are already prefixed to the Pla d'actuacions y finançamento de portes 2014-2017. The draft law of ports, therefore, draws a map of private management of the ports of the Generalitat of Catalonia mainly subject to this private investment, deiem, and which directs the economic investment to the most productive markets economically speaking, such as the nautical, sports, creuers, commercial, etc. And they intend to do so with a minimal differentiation of the tax pressure between the different activities of the boats; that is, they place in the same bag different activities as different as sailing or fishing, for one band, or recreational nautical and digging them for the other; they do not practically differentiate the primary tax share that they would have to pay different activities, such as fishing, with a 2-percent, of the nautical activity, with a 3-percent; therefore, they do not discriminate and indirectly potentiate activities that have a greater value, say, economic added. A _second package that we give critical of this law, which we consider preliminary critical of this law, is the poor consideration of the environmental impact of ports and port activity. We have found that there is no provision for the imposition of a series of coercive and dissuasive measures on the most polluting vessels such as mega- or creuers; on the contrary, we understand that it is a draft law that they intend to encourage even more these creuers, especially at the ports of competence of the Government of Catalonia. In this sense, provide for enhancements of the digs in your stadiums and entrances to 50_per_cent ports. Therefore, we have an impression rather than wanting to regulate this sector in a way that pays for the impacts that it has, and, therefore, to reduce its impact on our territory, I encouraged it even more. The ports have other environmental impacts, that, although we do not seem to have them, are spaces where there is an alteration..., generate an alteration of the marine dynamics, with many regressions to the costs, to the landings, basically, that are found to the south or south-east of these infrastructures; they are contaminating focus, for the same generation of residues, of gas oil derivatives, etcetera, and, moreover, the ships, especially those that work with gas oil, or especially those that work with fuels, have a very high environmental impact. It must be borne in mind that the fuel they use, for example, crucibles, contaminates a hundred times more than the normal diesel fuel used by cars, or that a supermegacreuer can reach annually the same volume of suffering as 50_millions of cars. All folded, say, contribute, and is contributing, and it seems that this bill still wants to encourage more, to an accentuation of the impacts that we are generating and that are favoring this climate change; a climate change that, moreover, sometimes affects these sports installations. According to the latest IPCC reports, an increase in the sea level of a_metre is expected in the next hundred years, and we think that the Law of ports in this sense is short as much as prevention as adaptation of these installations to the different effects of climate change would be. Moreover, there is also a very interesting question to consider, which is that the bill of law, in the area of contamination in the harbour domain, provides for the return of dredgings to beaches, of those arenas that are at the bottom, that accumulate in the mouths of ports, say, according to their physical, chemical and biochemical characteristics, but in the end I do not define who is the analytical shield that should allow these openings to be made in these beaches, taking into account, for example, therefore, like other ports in the Catalan Countries, as in the case of Maó, that has a high influx of believers, they have concentrations of arsenic to their areas accumulated in the sources of these seas, or in the presence of these cities. And finally and finally, we find ourselves in front of a law that we understand is a law, yet, as it stands today, of an autonomous character. We understand that this bill does not face the challenges we face as a country, with the construction of this new country. If we make a reading, therefore, of going cross-sectional from this law, we understand that we do not build a legislative cos of transition to state competitions that we should tend to as the future republic, in a sector that we understand is strategic, as is the case with the port sector, and does not establish a new management parameter of the two great ports on which today we do not have competence, which are the ports of Barcelona and Tarragona. We think that, in a context of disengagement from the Spanish State and the construction of a new republic, this law should go further than the current wording. We should establish what is to be the future management or what the future republic would do with these ports currently owned by the State. With these criticisms, we have not presented..., that is to say, we have not raised any technical objections to the handling of this law; we will let it pass to the committee, and, as I say, we will work there to complement it and improve it, especially in these critical aspects, which are now, as it is, done, so they would not get our vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.63.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Saladié. Next, there is the words of Mrs. Neus Lloveras, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.64.0	Well, good morning, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, and, also, Ports Manager, Secretary and Director General, well, we are here, and I am touched on this last intervention, to talk about the Ports and Transportation Bill Project in maritime and continental waters, a law that people who have been interested in the subject for a long time now are following. In fact, the preliminary memory we have known since July 31, 2014, and since that time we have been following and have been working extensively with stages, entities; there has been a very, very important work for today to be able to carry this bill, a bill that practically everyone considers important and necessary, with different materials, for different reasons. I believe that the interventions we have seen here show that there are different points of view and that there are different aspects that some of us are concerned about this law. Now, leave me, to begin with, to refer to the emena presented by Mrs. Marina Bravo, who thanked her, first of all, that she had withdrawn it, but to me, the truth, I was surprised when I saw that she had presented the emena, and that is why I wanted to listen carefully to her arguments, to hear the motieu of the emena. And, as I imagined, I was able to clearly listen to the message..., and I say to him with all respect that the motivation to present this message is an obsession, an obsession that your parliamentary group has, to see as a problem all that it wants to do from Catalonia, from the Government of Catalonia, to improve the welfare of Catalans and Catalans, obsessed to see the conflict where there is no, obsessed to create division where there is no and obsessed that focuses all its interventions. I believe that this presentation of this theme clearly demonstrates it. And for a moment... still, I'm back to saying, I appreciate you pulling it out. Mr. Villagrasa has argued the withdrawal of the emena by Mrs. Bravo. I thought for a moment: « Now it turns out..., let's see if we have the same opinion as Mr. Villagrasa and ourselves. But then I've seen that no; I've seen that no, because I'm sure that Mrs. Bravo has removed the message because she saw that she would not have any group support, but in case she doesn't have any clarity about what happens from Junta to Si and from the government we have clear: that is, that they are structures of the state, that is to say, that it is a law that you have planned to manage all the ports of Catalonia. And, therefore, I do not agree with your argument and we maintain... I think that if you read in detail Article 4 of the Law, you will see clearly, that this Law is already perfectly foreseen to be able to manage all the ports of Catalonia. But, well, so far we've only been talking about problems, because as much Citizens as the People's Party see problems in everything that the Government of the Generality does; I think we've been saying in this plenary all the time. But together for the Yes, where you see problems, we see opportunities; and precisely the word "opportunities" has much to see with ports. And now leave me here to do a little bit of rhetoric on this subject, because the opportunity sees the opportunity, which now comes from the port; first of all, the word "opportunities" derives from the opportunity, a maritime term applied to a wind that leads to good port. "Opportunity has connotations of optimism, dynamism, hope, which is an event that will have a place to get to the right place. But it's not a blind hope, it's a parallel hope, based on a series of probabilities. And I think, we understand from Juntes for Yes, that this is precisely the main objective of this law: to take advantage of opportunities to improve the welfare of Catalans and Catalans, and not to do so blindly, but based on clear probabilities. And now let me enter the law, while I think that with the intervention the counselor has practically made, it has been very well explained. But in the first place put it in context, and various groups have made reference to it. The Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia establishes that the Generality has exclusive competence over the ports located in the territory of Catalonia, according to what is provided for in Article 140, and in this sense it was approved the Law 5/1998 on April 17, of ports of Catalonia. This was, as has already been explained, the first regulatory manifestation in this matter, which was and was until today the orderly mark both of the ports managed directly by the Generality and of the buildings and operations operated under the administrative concession regime. After that, this law was completed with various decrees. All this set of standards has ordered the Catalan port system for years and, while in general terms its results can qualify as absolutely positive, today there are reasons enough to recommend its reform, with the aim of optimizing this key sector of infrastructure of our country. Catalonia, as the Councillor said before, looks to the sea, Catalonia has an important link with the sea, with the existence of port ports, fishing ports, commercial ports, industrial ports, which have a very important economic and social impact in the territory. And in all these areas there are objective data that have manifested that have undergone a major transformation since Law 5/1998 was approved. Without going into detail, because it has already been explained, a small summary of the most important changes I think we will all share. For what it does to sports nautical, it is a touristic, strategic, dynamic element of the country in its own years; here too it must take into account the new needs, the need to adapt the Catalan ports to the requirements of the new vessels of great length and the journey of creuers. That's what he does to sports nautical. Then, for what he does to fishing, in a process of change, with a descent of the catches that makes essential changes in management and marketing... And lastly, commercial and industrial traffic, with a significant increase in passengers and merchandise. Therefore, new needs, new opportunities, new demands. And we must be able, through this new legislation, to manage with the utmost efficiency, with the objective of being able to face the challenges presented by this sector and, above all, to strengthen the conception of ports as economic operators and service providers. And he gets here, and to get into some of the things that I think are important to this law and that have not been specifically mentioned, let me put down the mayor's bar, since the city of Vilanova and Geltrú has come out a couple of times today, and I look at the law from the territorial view; the mayors have this obsession with looking at things from the territorial view. And I think there are a lot of loopholes here that could be highlighted and I would like to highlight two. First of all, the economic impact of having ports in towns where there are ports is important. And here, in this sense, tell you as a small example the city of Vilanova and the Geltrú. The port of Vilanova is one of the main work centers of the city. It gives direct and indirect labour to nine hundred people; we do not have businesses that give labour to nine hundred people to the cities. Therefore, the ports... really, a place of generation of economic activity important to the cities. And then, also referring to the territory, I would like to highlight the importance of the nine planning figures that have been explained and that incorporate the law: the Pla de portes 2016-2030, the Pla urbanístic portari for each port, and also the port order of the service area, instruments that favor, that will favor the integration of the ports in its territory and its connection with the rest of the infrastructures of mobility. Therefore, there is also one aspect that from the territory is valued very positively and is important – the councillor has made reference to it, and also some other interventions – the need that..., ports have changed and each time is required more that ports are integrated into cities, not as it was a few years ago, that ports were an annex to cities. Therefore, we are convinced that these nine planning figures, in an important way, will contribute to this, to this integration of ports into cities. And finally, in another sense, there is also a need to amend the law to make it compatible with other regulations that have occurred, many of them at European level, and I think that this is also an absolutely basic and important argument: those that are related to the assets of public administrations, public contracts, environmental protection or port security. And with all this, to make a very, very brief final summary of what the objectives of this law are, as we see it, three serious. The first, the articulation – and this is what we have probably deepened more – of a catal port system adapted to the new socio-economic realities, so that the harbour infrastructures are put to the service of the economic, industrial, tourist and social promotion of the country. Secondly, to create a legal regime that encourages investments and port services, focusing on simplifying administrative procedures; an important aspect that all laws should incorporate, this simplification of administrative procedures. And lastly, and not least, I would highlight one of the important aspects of this law – and some of the Members who have spoken have highlighted it – to ensure the environmental sustainability of port infrastructure and of the activities that take place there; it is one of the great challenges we have on the table, and we are convinced that we also face it with this law. So, summarizing, with a word, and ending as I started: take advantage of all the opportunities. Still, I'm referring to some of the interventions that took place during the process of the law, sure they could introduce better – sure. Because truth dialog – truth dialog – is always positive. The counselor has made it very clear: this is a starting point, and I believe, I am convinced that the parliamentary process will further enrich this law. For all this, the Parliamentary Group of Together for Yes, we are grateful that the message has been removed and we are very pleased that today this process can pull forward, because we are absolutely convinced that this is a very, very important law, a very important state structure, very important for Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.65.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lloveras. As far as totality has been removed, the Law of ports and transport in sea and continental waters continues its processing. Many thanks to everyone, and the session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.66.0	It's part of the session. Too late to all and so to all. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the electric car]] [[302-00091/11]] The next item on the agenda is the motion following the question to the Government about the electric car, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. To expose her, has the word Mr. Joan Ramon Casals.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.67.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors..., well, in any case, the motion is subsequent to the inquiry that we presented to the last plenary, in which we already referred to the importance that the electric car can have for us for the future of our society and, especially, of our country. We understand that the electric car is important in many aspects, mainly for which it means, above all, the reduction of contamination, but also for which it can mean as a catalyst in a new way to hear the energetic model. At this point, we also understand that in reducing contamination are very important aspects such as public transport, but today it is not up to us to talk about it, at this point – we talked about it yesterday, precisely in an inquiry. There is also a very important point that has been related, which is the model of energy production. And there has been a lot of good work, in this case, from the government and from this Parliament, with laws, for example, such as climate change, or the National Energy Transition Pact. But, in addition, the electric car, which is also working very well from Icaen, led by Assumpta Farran, generates benefits that can be very important, and we understand that it was important that since Parliament it is given support to these policies and it is objective for our Government and for our country. The electric car has two great virtues: the reduction of the contamination, especially all that has to do with the combustion..., say, what is the use of fossil fuels, the elimination of this type of fuel or almost to leave it to a minor theme; and also, naturally, which goes back, the reduction of what is the acoustic contamination. But we also understand the electric car as a key element in this transformation that also wants to boost the National Pact for Energy Transition, which is a change in the model of energy production and consumption. We understand that the electric car can be a catalyst in this aspect. We understand that the electric car that does is to promote self-consumption and energy accumulation. The electric vehicle also makes it possible to integrate renewable energies into transport, both public and private, but it still goes further, because we understand that the electric vehicle will facilitate and accelerate the energy and production model change in our country. This is all that is working from the Strategic Platform for the deployment of refueling infrastructure for the electric vehicle, which is known as PIRVEC, and from there many measures are being taken, some of which arise from the proposals of this young man. The object of the motion is to analyze and ask for the standard changes that are necessary to be able to boost the electric car that they have to deal with the difficulties to put up recharging points, such as simplifying the rules, simplifying and reducing the costs of pushing the collocation of these electrical charging points, but above all three aspects that we want to highlight: creating a fast recharging network across our country that allows the recharging of the electric car to a maximum of one hundred and twenty kilometers; and also pushing the previous one, in this case, to the same way, to the word "recharging" of the energy that is zero, so that the smaller cities, especially the inhabitants of the country, may be better than the previous ones, but not more than the previous ones, but rather the word "recharging". It's renewed, but it's also encouraging and stopping at the goal that all the cars in our country arrive, in a 30_per_cent, to be electric by the year 2025. But we also want to go a lot further, and this young man is much more ambitious. I'm the one who wants to thank you from here, huh? In the final time that I have left, there are all the contributions that have been made from all the groups, that there have been absolutely none of them..., almost all the groups – PSC, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, from Ciutadans, from the People's Party –, that I believe they have helped to make a young man that will help the final goal. I am aware that our country is also a leading country in the automotive industry, we must also be able to lead this change in the automotive industry in order to remain a driving force in the industry, as the electric mobility industry means. And to do so, we need to be prepared to be able to complete these new demands. And, with this young man, we are helping to push Catalonia to remain a leader in the field of the electric mobility industry, the electric car, but above all – above all – to be prepared for these changes and challenges that will mean this new model of mobility. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.68.0	Thank you, Mr. Couples. Next, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Mr. Marc Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.69.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselors, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. As the previous Member said, promoting the deployment of the electric vehicle refuelling infrastructure is precisely one of the priority areas of the Energy Transition Pact document, which was presented to the Government and to the same Icaen a few days ago. And we are very much in agreement, we agree to be able to make the necessary recourse for this transition to a horizon of energy sovereignty based on clean and renewable energies. In fact, it is in the presentation of the same document that the Icaen textually says that this pact will serve us "to agree on a new model of renewable, net, decentralized, democratic and sustainable catal energy, in line with the objectives of the European Union in the field of energy. So, well, we agree; we share those words, in this sense, and not in another way. And, therefore, in this sense we share the deployment of an electric vehicle charging network, which is the one that calls for the seat in it; with some appreciations, which are what we have presented in the form of messages, which we appreciate, from the outset, that the majority of us have not been accepted, and that those who have not, have been able to deal with them in order to give better and more consistency to the text that had been presented. See, I'll explain. The opportunity of the electric vehicle is not only an opportunity for industrial conversion of the automotive sector – which is it, and which is very important – but it should be framed above all in the opportunity to lay the foundations, precisely, for this energy transition. And that's why we believe that the points of replenishment that from institutions and from public investment must begin to push..., to start by ensuring that the energy that is distributed has a net origin, a source of renewable sources, precisely to reduce the dependence of fossil fuels, which is what they claim at the end of the path. Moreover, if, as we hope, the use of the electric vehicle is in place – because we are able, like the country, therefore, to encourage it and to put it easily – the electric demand will increase noticeably. And little would change in the way to energy transition if the production sources of this increase in demand remained the same as those currently supplying the energy market. In the background, the only one we would make would be to increase the demand of the traditional electricity sector; the only one we would make would be to help oligopolises. It is therefore essential that, when we begin to deploy this model, we do so in this direction, and we do so in this direction, marking it from the Public Administration the objective, because it is a country model objective, making it the strategic public investment that is needed. This is why we have presented ideas in this sense, in point 1, putting it as the essential element of this necessary net source of energy for the charging of electric vehicles. We also agree to include in the infrastructure plan the need for all this electric vehicle charging plan and to develop the network, which you place in a hundred points. And, like we think they're a few, we make a point in the sense of progressively combining it with points located in vehicle competition spaces. Let's celebrate one thing, that's that the party that supports the government asks the government at point 4 to lock in a presuppositional game to be able to do it; don't get used to it, and maybe it's a sign that they're not going to do it, that they're going to do it. In any case, it seems logical to us that the first move is made from public investment; because, if there is demand, the private sector will react and donate the service, whenever it finds that there is a margin for negotiation. With regard to point 5, we do not see this prevention that you have in the original text – for this reason we have made the message – on the modification of the legal framework and the public performance in the meantime – while it is modified – but we will bet decisively on this public investment, without any morning. Basically, because pushing this network as we ask does not have normative difficulties; they are not, whenever it is taken as energy-refilling fonts renewable fonts that may not be connected to the network, or that can be guaranteed that they will not inject a _sol quilowt into the network. There are experiments, there are experiences, in this sense; in these conditions, this can be done without any contraindication. It's also important what point 6 says to work for interoperability. Indeed, it is necessary that there has been compatibility between installations and vehicles, all the difficulties that the same market generates; but it is much more important than what you also pointed out, the exemplifier paper of the Generality, which points to its points 10 and 11, as well as the paper of the municipalities, which points to point 9, which can be of great relevance and of first order to introduce this mode. Finally, in the text that you have negotiated with us, you accept a message from the People's Party that we would call a separate vote for a word; it talks about encouraging – encouraging – hybrid vehicles in the meantime – that there is nothing against – and encouraging energies..., hydrocarbons, not, but the energies « alternative to the electric car, which sounds a lot like biodiesel,...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.70.0	Mr. Vidal, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.71.0	...what do you think you're against? Therefore, we ask for a separate vote from this point. Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.72.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Next, the words of Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.73.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselors, we will give support to this motion to donate..., I think it is interesting or would be important to give a sign of vast majority around the harvest, from Catalonia, to the electrification of transport. This week, this week, in an interview that he was given in a newspaper, Mr. Nicholas Stern, who has been here for years, would not have claimed that hybrid and electric vehicles would be circulating on the streets of our cities. I think that, if we asked here, most Members and Members, we would all confirm that, right? It's a reality we have here, huh? And, therefore, we cannot close the door to this reality. Mr. Casals said: "We must have ambition, we must have a point of ambition. I agree. We must have ambition, because other countries and the industrial sector of these countries – and I am talking about countries of the European Union, here we are – are ahead of us, enough ahead of us, both for what it does to the circulation of electric vehicles in the streets as on the stake of the motor industry for this new mode of transport. And here we have to do the dues, the dues to bet clearly on the electrification of transport, the private and the public, huh? , of both, because it's one of the fronts that sets the climate change for us, but it's also a front of economic model change. Why don't we just need clean vehicles, hybrid and electric vehicles in the streets, but what we need to do is that the energy infrastructure that will be needed to power the vehicle is also under this concept of green generation infrastructure, right? And, therefore, here we have a great repte, like the country. We won't get this to work if we don't have long, efficient recharging points across the country; recharging points in private homes, but recharging points that are fast or semi-fast, huh? Because as far as the fleet of vehicles is concerned, it will be more necessary for users to be able to recharge their vehicles. And here we have an ampoule collar, which is the figure of the load manager. One of our reviews was in this sense, because many of those businesses, shopping centers, airports, ports..., to the massive influx point, which may be one of the interesting places where there are the recharge points, do not interest them to be or do not have the will to be energy marketers. And, therefore, this can be a last resort for the development of the electric car, if we don't change the rules. We believe that it is necessary to amend the legislation, because it will be the only way to encourage the points of renewal. We also believe that the Administration – in this case, the Government of the Generality, as well as the assemblies – led to Catalonia this first effort of implosion of the net vehicle, of the electric vehicle to Catalonia, and as an example in its policies: this means in the renewal of its fleet of vehicles. Here we have set an objective, and it is that year 30– which is here, at the cantonada– 80_per_cent– a few months ago we give 100_per_cent, but, well, today the government asks us to be 80_per_cent, that I suppose they have to put in security vehicles for the mig– followed by net electric vehicles. We agree. Now, we also ask the Government of the Generality to make a presuppositional effort, because we have reviewed all the parties in the 2017 Presupposition, and, man, the year that you will find difficult to give this example, because, counselor, the parties are minses, huh? We encourage them, if they continue to rule as of 2018 – as we try to change them – that the parties and the presuppostary effort are a little higher, because, if not, they are not the administration that will end up setting an example.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.74.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. Next, has the word Mr. Alfonso Sánchez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.75.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, today Junts pel Yes, it presents us with a text that has been improved with the amendments tabled by all the parliamentary groups, and that is something that is appreciated. An improved text by everyone, except for the PP; then I will explain why. There are some issues that could be improved, but we prefer to lay a foundation and then develop them. We are told of fast loads, that in thirty_minutes you have to make one hundred_twenty kilometers, but we do not talk about the type of connector, if it is alternating current, if it is continuous, what happens to super-fast, ultra-fast... I think we should think, in the future, of vehicles of great battery capacity and able to charge those one hundred_twenty kilometers in less than half of the time you say, which already exists. But, as I tell you, you have to lay the foundations to start working as soon as possible. On the other hand, we very much lack support for self-employed people and SMEs, which, in order to encourage research, training and the setting up of points, are necessary. I recently met two people, Jordi and Xavier, two Catalan entrepreneurs, from here, from Barcelona, who, based on effort and illusion, and with the conviction that the electric car is the future, have managed to have the reference platform, in Spain and Portugal, on maps of charging points and information to users. I'm talking about Electromaps. Do you know how many aids you have obtained, have obtained Electromaps to become a reference, even on Tesla's official website? Zero. However, we continue to spend resources on political structures that do nothing but large meetings, while they have parked their brand-new gasoline eater at the door. There are some particularly interesting amendments, where it is proposed that energy be of renewable origin, fleets of electric vehicles at ports and airports, purchase aids for private individuals. And it must be so, of course; we cannot continue to poison the air we breathe. And there are issues on which political positions should be set aside for the sake of the planet, of all of us and of our children. Not like the PP's Parliamentary Group – and now I'll explain why – that they read the title ‘electric cars and start putting hybrids, low-consumption vehicles, lower-cylinder vehicles; they even say that technological barriers have to be identified. Look, it's not like that, there are no technological barriers: there are political barriers, where oil companies exert all possible pressure to prevent the arrival of the inevitable. And you fall, and you go and create the tax on the soil. If for something we are starting in the world of electric cars it is precisely by political barriers. I recently read that in Norway they have just extended the aid for the purchase of the electric vehicle until 2020 – which had to end this year – because the incentives serve to make something buy, right? For there they are already above 25_per_cent of the electric car park. So while some almost complete the implementation of the electric vehicles, we... even saying or deciding what name we put on Catalonia's recharge network, which is non-existent. To all this, the PIRVEC, where is it? There is already a plan, mentioned as such, in the past, at the second point of the motion, which includes 100 fast charging stations, 400 semi-fast charging stations, and, best of all, 25,000 charging points linked in parking lots. Where are all those dots? They do not want to do a wash in front of the PIrvEC in the face of a new failure of the government's policies on sustainable transport. I remind you that before the arrival of the PILVEC already failed with Ivecat, another great plan for the purchase of electric vehicles, which estimated to have 70,000 vehicles in 2015, and the reality was that they did not reach 5,000. And to position me now, in the short time I have left, on the amendments tabled, our group will vote in favour of all the points relating to the electric vehicle, to the electric car, which is what the motion is about, and those points to please the oil companies, we will vote against them. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.76.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Next, the words of Mr. Sergio Santamaría, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.77.0	Thank you, President. Advisers, Members, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Casals for his willingness to negotiate and enrich the motion that we will adopt on the development and deployment of electric vehicles as a future bet for sustainability. He has accepted the proposals we have offered him, and we will therefore give full support to the motion. This is an ambitious initiative, in fact, which is based – and I believe that this is where the confusion of the citizen's deputy lies – on the need for a transitional process, because the future of the electric car goes through a much deeper transformation of car technologies. From the automotive sector in general, the problems still posed by autonomy, battery charging time, the price that affects electric cars are known, and also, and so is addressed in the motion, the lack of infrastructure for their viability. More technological advances are needed, and for this more investment is needed in R & D & I. It would probably be prudent and more effective not to fall, on the other hand, into the snobism of proposing solutions that sound good in the long term, when we should – I believe, modestly – focus on the search for more immediate solutions. This is reflected in the addendum amendment tabled by our group, redrafted in this case with the owner of the motion, and accepted in paragraph 12. I have also been powerfully drawn to the attention that from the measured and weighted wording of paragraph 1 of the motion – in which, moreover, the joint work and dialogue with the ministry of the branch and with the Congress of Deputies is invited, on the contrary, then to defend the unilateral adoption of measures that can have economic impact – hence the importance of previous studies of economic impact – and, moreover, that it does not take into account coordination in all the administrations involved. On the other hand, devoting a budget item without greater concreteness, without greater commitment, can be a toast to the sun, one more, to which we are accustomed by parliamentary praxis, which the Government later rejects. It is true that some sectors are adapting to the new times in the car, as happens, for example, with the taxi collective, which in Barcelona has decidedly opted for the use of hybrid vehicles as a transition to which the spirit of the motion as a whole refers. That is why we also agree on the establishment of an aid plan which will lead to the renewal of the motor vehicle fleet by supporting both natural and legal persons who, logically, acquire an electric vehicle; that the public fleet of Generalitat vehicles is not just preaching by example. So we also agree with the motion at this point. In short, it is a motion the result of dialogue between all the political forces in this chamber. Therefore, the Councillor and the other members of the Government who accompany him, follow this line, do not have the open hand of the Spanish Government, believe in the division of powers. Do not set up numbers like yesterday, when you are notified of a court decision – because it is out of place –; do not act irresponsiblely, do not break our democracy. Yesterday I think that Mr Turull was talking precisely about the fact that this is about democracy; of course, we have since 1978. And you, from separatism, are definitely betting on blowing it up. [[Widow's remorse.]] Look, I also want to refer to a fact that... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.78.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.79.0	...probably...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.80.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.81.0	Don't change...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.82.0	...respect the chorus of words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.83.0	Don't get upset, you'll take my time to expose what I want to move you. [[Give me the applause.]] Look, tomorrow they have convened the umpteenth summit« epic moment of preparation for the referendum of 2017. It's very important. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, sir, Baiget, don't make gestures, don't gesture, because what I'm going to tell you will matter, and much. I think tomorrow... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It just has to do, because you're in it. I think that tomorrow the citizens of Catalonia will have very bad news, because you will certainly announce the convening of that referendum for 2017. And I want to remind you, all of you, of a saying, a saying that is very significant, a saying that I think illustrates a lot what is going to happen tomorrow. Look, tomorrow's going to happen that meeting of shepherds, dead sheep. And you know what that means? Do you know what that means? That tomorrow, precisely, what will be that: another summit more, another story more, another day not to forget the feat that you are undertaking, and the only thing that will happen is that you will create more frustration, more uneasiness, more uncertainty. In short, what they will do is continue to complicate the lives of all the citizens of Catalonia. Nothing more. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.84.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. [[Widow's remorse.]] Next, the words of Mr Sergi Saladié, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.85.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon. This is a reason that its general feeling is to enhance electricity mobility in Catalonia, to call for legislative changes at the state level and to support the private sector with the implementation of a fast-rearing network from the territory up to 100 points. This is the main structure of this young man. It is a young man, however, who does not address in an integral way, from our point of view, the problem of mobility in Catalonia, nor the energetic and ecological challenges that we have with the country. It is limited to categorically stating that electric mobility is a solution. However, there are a number of considerations: first of all, it should be made clear that most and the most important problems associated with mobility based on the private car – such as air pollution, the emission of winter gas, the occupation of roads or the embussos – cannot be solved by replacing cars by cars. On the other hand, it is materially impossible to replace all the mobile park that works with fossil energies for a mobile electric park: there is not enough first materials. For example, the litigation reserves, which are the basis for making the batteries of these electric cars, are concentrated in a few countries, and the intensive use of this material or of this material is already engaging in more international conflicts. I'm fighting it, plus, he's got a complex manufacturing process. If we decide at this very moment that all the world's offer of disputes should go to the electric car, we would not go beyond the production of 2 or 3 million annual units, with which we would need a few seconds to replace all the current fleet of vehicles worldwide, which is 1,100 million cars. From this point of view, therefore, it is obvious that the electric car, as it is currently proposed, cannot but be an anecdotal, and it costs a lot to assume, now, the costs of building a supply network of vehicles, as it does this young man. Secondly, the most reasonable option is to design the use of the electric vehicle as an element of complementarity, with the benefit of changing the paradigm of mobility, to bet decisively on a reduction of forced mobility – from a good territorial planning – as well as on a universal public transport and reaching all the country's roots: rollers, trams, subways, half distance, municipal buses, intermunicipal, district and intercomarcal buses, bicycles, intermodality. In this new paradigm, the car could play an important role, but it should contextualize it well and give it the corresponding game. Some doubts that we raise with this young man are related, therefore, to how to manage the ecological impact of the manufacture and recycling of these batteries, of these complex processes of developing the batches: how will the cost of the electric energy recharge evolve? With what parameters will the private sector enter? Will it be in the form of a monopoly? With reference to the state regulatory framework, in a hypothetical institutional confrontation of the Generality with the Spanish State and a foreseeable disconnection situation with the State, how will the transport and distribution of this electricity be managed? And one last question or doubt that we are going to be: if we don't change the current electricity generation system, based on contaminant sources such as nuclear or thermal, we won't be cleaning up some parts of the country to blow up some more? We believe that the proposals put forward by the honourable Member should be reoriented with other actions where the electric vehicle has, as we say, been integrated into a system of mobility that is different from the present, with public transport, right to universal, quality and free accessibility. Therefore, it would be useful to integrate the electric vehicle within the conjunct of territorial and transport policies, and not to promote it in a decontextualized way. We think that what would be hot is to boost electric mobility in the field of public mobility; for example, buses – which are already being done – can be hybridized and electrified. We think that what it is to humanize cities and cities – surely the best option is not to replace cars for cars, as we say –, and we insist on the need to enhance public transport, use of bicycles, share vehicles, plan routes and trips, and focus on the need to fight climate change and air pollution. Before the deployment of the electric vehicle, we changed the current electricity production system – based on contaminating, inefficient, plant-based and controlled by a five-enterprise oligopoly – to one based on renewable, efficient, decentralized and citizen-driven. Only then can we give support to the electric vehicle; not now. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.86.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Saladié. Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Joan Ramon Casals, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.87.0	All right. Thanks again. I'll say first about the exams, and above all agrarian, huh? , input from all groups, that I think among all we have been able to make a much better text. Especially, thank those who want to see Catalonia Yes, it is possible, for all its sake, to say, it is all the more important that all this new network is renewable energy in all that is possible; and, to the Socialist Party, to mark ambitious objectives, also, in which is the renewal of the electric car of our country and, in concrete terms, of the Generality. In the end, the goal this young man has is to try to facilitate the implementation of the electric car and eliminate what today makes it more complicated, which are the regulations, above all – which depend on the state – and the high costs involved, huh? , and above all, generate this network and make it easier for the joints to do so. With regard to the PIrvEC, which was referred to by the deputy of Ciutadans, just what you said, about things that did not go into the debate – such as these charges, these batteries; such as all this model should be – it is precisely that the PIrvEC, together with all the entities, in and enterprises that are related to the subject, is working. Therefore, these solutions will emerge from here, to which you refer. Regarding the CUP... [[the timer riu]] Sergi, huh? We've been talking about it these days here. I'm hard aware of your scepticism about the electric car. We believe that it will help all this energy model change, which we share. And sometimes there are these differences: we may have the ultimate goal that we want, that it's a better and less polluting society, and the way it's going, we might think it's different, or some think..., or we share that reality is not the right one, we know where we want to go, and some know that the way it's going is harder and we're willing to do it. We, in this young man, think we're willing to do this path and take on the responsibilities it implies, huh? And, respect the car, the only problem we have with the car is contamination. We have no problem with the car; power is also another difference, as it is. I, for the last time, Sergio [[the timer riu]] You've talked about a lot of things, and some concrete things that they don't have to do with the electric car, but being able to do something is also important. We understand the electric car as a point of democracy, too, and as a point of disconnection, of disconnection from what we don't like, which is contamination, it connects to those multinational companies or to those states or to those conceptions that make people not able to sort, and where multinationals or big interests can't make the electric car develop, for example, that it's what's happening now, and that the Spanish State, unfortunately, is promoting. That's why we believe in the electric car...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.88.0	Mr. Couples, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.89.0	... because it means people's independence respects big multinationals, and we also believe in independence, because it means people's freedom. I, therefore, thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.90.0	Thank you, Mr. Couples. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] Mr. Santamaría, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.91.0	President, for contradictions. Very short, huh? By contradictions of Congressman Casals. Very brief, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.92.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.93.0	Yes, Mr Casals; I also understand the approach that you make to me, of more democracy. Anyway, also, perhaps, you can come to the conclusion..., some may think that it does not have much to do with the issue of the electric car either. [[Rialles.]] I am saying this because you say that I am talking about things which do not touch; perhaps you have also slipped a little, in this matter. But in any case, I just want to say to you..., the electric vehicle, you have to connect it; so, you, stay connected, don't disconnect. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.94.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.95.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 12.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.96.0	Twelve. [[Long break.]] A separate vote was requested from point 12. Therefore, we will vote first on point 12, and then we will vote on the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] Therefore, the vote begins. Point number 12. Point 12_has been approved by 84 votes to 35, with 9 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on the electric car was approved by 118 votes to 10, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into gender-based violence]] [[302-00093/11]] The new point of the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the rape of gender, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Ms. Marta Moreta. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, you'll have to silence them. Mrs. Moreta, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.97.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members and Members, I would like to begin by reading headlines that I have found at press and radio; headlines that may have to be reflected on all of us, because they are headlines that are from press and public radio in Catalonia. And, therefore, I think it's good to start this intervention by reading them, and that we all do a deep reflection. They say the following: « A woman dead to Esplugues in a new case of male violence, « One hundred and thirty-two women have died in Catalonia in the last five years in the hands of men and « Every two minutes a woman dies in the hands of her partner or exparella at some point on the planet. MPs and MPs don't die: they kill them, they're murdered. [[Greetings.]] And that's why – so much so that there's no counselor here, too, present; there's the other –, counselor – sorry –, we have to start talking with property, because that's public television and the public radio in Catalonia – for that said that there was no counselor. And when information is transmitted, it must be transmitted well, and these errors cannot be made. Today, the day of the lottery, some lucky ones have celebrated it – in fact, it has touched Manlleu, but it has not touched me. [[Rialles.]] But, seriously speaking, today, lottery day, the probability that the Grossa here in Catalonia is 1_between_100,000, and, in change, the probability that you are a victim of male violence, according to the last report of the General Council of the Judiciary, is 15_between_10,000. Neixer woman or man is a lottery, but you've got your life. Counselor, now yes, let us stop talking and act; let us act every day, 365 days a year, day and night; let us work to eradicate this chakra, and let us make it with guarantees. We have the opportunity to create and lead this great Catalan pact against male violence, a pact represented for all feminist movements, for all entities and associations, for trade unions, and yes, it will advise, also for political parties. There can be no fractures or different opinions in this matter; we must make pinya. Since we started this legislature, Lucinda, Cristina, Aránzazu, Flori, María José, Carmen and Victòria have been murdered. Pro-murdered. Let's move forward quickly. We lack staff from the Squadron Fields, we need to increase care programs and treatment of victims, we lack specialized training – of all professionals, obviously, and of all backgrounds – still lack awareness campaigns. We need to boost the growth of the gangs of houses and floors bridge for women who have been victims of male violence; we can't reduce the justices of Life – I said it already – and a wide range of fears that we still don't do very well. Counselors, we're short of resources, and we have to say very high, and we can't ignore that. We cannot let go of interdepartmental coordination, it is to say, this cross-sectional work, essential to win this long and complicated race. And I would like to finish my intervention, above all, giving thanks to the parliamentary groups of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, of Ciutadans, of the CUP and of Juntes per el Si to reach an agreement to make a better young woman than I presented. Because, with much perseverance, we have made dialogue, negotiation and pact to make a great young man, who today I hope that all the deputies of this chamber will approve. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.98.0	Thank you, Mrs. Moreta. Next, in order to defend the papers presented, Ms. Anna Gabriel, of the Parliamentary Group, candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.99.0	See, it's very late. It is true, we are presenting a motion that thanks to the papers presented by the different groups will help to improve the proposal, and, I would say..., it is not that I have surveyed the groups, but it is very likely that it will be approved unanimously, or perhaps not at all points, but in any case it will be approved by a large majority. From the beginning, the ideas we have formulated as CUP - Crida Constituent, obviously have improved the text, because, if not, we would not talk about « feminist collections, for example– there would not appear the word « feminist –, and this connects with the question that we did yesterday morning: we cannot hear the fight against male violence unless we contrast the only fight that has been able to do something for women, which is the feminist struggle. We have also made statements about young people's empowerment, because we believe that it is very important to work with young people at the educational centres, and to have to compliment a program, a specific subject – which I feel – that I can work with young people in all the centres. Here the private does not have to escape from anything, it also has to make feminist formation, even though our objective, obviously, is that it ceases to exist, the private schools. We are talking about Istanbul's convention, which, in fact, already provides for many measures that can be deployed to combat male violence. So we're talking about working on analytics, so they don't give any more protection orders. There are some alarming data respecting the protection orders that are denied, especially the Barcelona constituency; something happens to the judiciary and the judiciary that does not grant protection orders. And, therefore, the papers have been accepted. We are also talking about migrant women, and the fact that their administrative situation, this racist legislation imposed by the state government, is not a difficulty because women come to be protected, etc. Therefore, the motion, as I say, will certainly be approved, and, therefore, I do not know if you will finally give up some final applause, but we are not satisfied with this, eh? Because, in fact, one of the points that we had presented included all the commitments that we had already voted in favour of in the general policy debate. And if we read them all, there's nothing more, absolutely nothing more. But it is not only that we have remained in the proposals that we all approved in the general policy debate; it is that we have the studies done, there are all, absolutely all: we have the published data, we have the recommendations – those made by the syndic, those made by the experts – we have absolutely everything analyzed. We have clear who the instruments are and what we need to do. What's missing? Implement it. What's missing? Political will. Rather than approve of the intention that later it is not translated into concrete realities for women, because I believe that the last one that women deserve is exactly that. The MP of the PSC said: « 365 days a year, day and night; yes, from the government, from the parliament and from the local sphere. That's why we can't hear how we still have government assemblies in this case for the Socialist Party, which, to commemorate November 25th, do some workshops for women. And you know what the workshops are about? They are... : speakers on women's health, hygiene and emotions workshop, elaboration of a reception with a product purchased from the food bank, speakers on the care of minors and other themes to take into account as women/seas, workshop focused on the decoration of nothing and, finally, the elaboration of a reception of Nadal. I don't think I can say anything more: political will, less words and more facts. Because – as we said – it is no longer for our daughters, it is for our seas and our ancestors. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.100.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Also to defend the papers presented, and on behalf of the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, has now the word the deputy Gemma Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.101.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs, MPs, I don't think that a problem is serious... [[Widow's remorse.]] What's going on? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, there's no president, it's true. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[The joker laughs.]] I'm sorry, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.102.0	He's got the word, too. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.103.0	Excuse me. [[The joker laughs.]] I do not think that a serious problem for our society is'male violence' or 'gender violence', we can say both ways. If masculinism is the combination of ideas, attitudes and practices based on the assumption – "taken, that is, not biologic, but thought and transmitted – of man's superiority over the woman, masculinist violence is that practiced by men who consider the woman to be inferior and give obedience. We can also say gender violence; the gender is the social construction of what is considered masculinity or femininity. For example, determining that women are the ones to take care of the great people of a family is a question of gender. That's why gender-based violence is what women suffer by the fact that it is. And it is that being a woman in a patriarchal society like ours is a risk factor for suffering violence: symbolic rape – for example, the head of the government's president –, economics – the wage gap between women and men –, psychological – « You, shut up, don't understand, in this –, sexual – the subway – or physical – the most extreme example of which is murder, unfortunately much more often than you might imagine. I want to remind them of the four women who have died murdered in the Spanish State by their peers or exparators the last four or five days, due to them in Catalonia. I repeat again, therefore, that male or gender violence is one of the hardest problems of our society, and it is a problem based on the ideas and fruits of this patriarchal structure, which has a secular origin. To stop it, there is not enough with statements, with gestures, with laws; that they are necessary, too, but to stop it we need to make structural changes of great scale that transform mindsets, that transform ideas: to make people aware of what they think and why they think. And for this we need to introduce the concept of patriarchy into the school curriculum: it is surprising that our student studied industrial revolution or capitalism and did not study patriarchy. It is also essential that all people who believe in equality between women and men, who believe that women and men have the same dignity, are declared feminists. If you, Members and Members, believe, then you must admit that they are feminists. I've made a very small feminist for various reasons; I'll explain one to you. My mother's avia had been educated to be a housewife of hers. He married a French lord – that's what I'm saying because it's important for the story – and he ended up living with her the two single Germans. When I was seven months old from the second daughter, my bird died of a fulminating illness, and she set out to work as an accountant to bring the family forward: the two girls, the two Germans and herself. My avia was strong, independent and very capable, and it was for me a model for life. The only thing I didn't understand about her was her visiting cards. She is said by Anna Calvo, but the headlines say : « Madame widow of Philippe Massot, it is to say, « Lady widow of Philippe Massot. And I couldn't help wondering why my dead bird was more important than my alive, and very alive. When I was a little older, I was pleased that you married a Frenchman and not an Indian, because, if not, at his death, I might have been cremated to the funeral pyre, a costume that was abolished in India in the 19th century but which at the end of the 20th was still practiced. At least my wife's death was just symbolic, but God is not there. These things continue to happen, although they do not depend on their will. Dilluns, Mistress Victòria Bertran was murdered for her husband because she wanted to leave him. The newspapers have published the news omitting her name and profession and, in change, explaining her name and – yes – her professional profile. The same is true of his résumé; the case is that he is a murderer and that what he has done is an act that has a name: "male violence or " genere. For all these reasons, we would have liked the assumptions to reflect more forcefully, much more forcefully, the government's struggle against this slaughter. And we would have liked it if it had focused on resolving the shortcomings of the service network for women in a male-violation situation. We appreciate the Socialist Group's motion. We have proposed some considerations concerning the need to inform about the results of the second investigation into male violence in Catalonia and the need to establish the reasons for which the rights of protection granted are so low in Catalonia. We shall therefore vote in favour of the motion, but we want to insist on the fact that this motion will not resolve anything if you, Members and Members, do not take feminism as a fight of their own, the struggle for women, as Mrs Gabriel said yesterday, we have the consideration of people, which is what we are. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.104.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Also to defend the exams, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Group, has now the word Mrs Naomi's deputy of the street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.105.0	Thank you. Firstly, I would like to condemn the latest feminicides and thank Marta Moreta, Member of the Socialist Party, for introducing this motion, which puts the victims at the centre of the debate; a motion which has been rich in contributions from many parliamentary groups, and which for the most part have been accepted and incorporated into the final text. If we look at the data from the Home Office on the victims of gender-based violence in 2016, we will see that more than half of these victims are under 40 years of age, and the same is true of the aggressors. This data erases the arguments that take refuge in the idea that gender inequality is an outdated thing, that violence is neither found nor found in the new generations – grown in democracy. These data show that violence against women is a scourge found in all ages and in all social groups and classes. That is why early education is vital, because children are in the phase of building their identity and starting to define how they relate, and therefore the patterns that follow those ages can also mark their adult relationships. Our duty is to put valuable tools in your hands, which will be indispensable in your future life and will protect you from situations of domination or abuse in the future. Our amendments have been aimed, on the one hand, at incorporating attention to emotional dependence into the portfolio of social services. Not all emotional dependence generates violence against women, but in most cases with violence there is emotional dependence, or they have started with it. We regret that it has not been accepted, and I take this opportunity to announce that we will present it in the form of a motion for a resolution in committee, hoping that the appearances of two entities, Gaede and Acencas, will illustrate why we are concerned about this issue. We have also wanted – and this time it has been accepted – to recognize the invisible victims of gender-based violence and to include them in the prevention and support measures that exist. Gender-based violence, to submit to its central goal, which is women, extends to other people to harm them – their children, their family, their friends, their new partners. We cannot leave these people unprotected, who are also victims and who are not being included in the statistics because they do not have a sentimental bond with the executioner. Behind each case there is a father, there is a mother, a sister..., who are also victims and suffer that violence that will accompany them, like a shadow, the rest of their lives. And our amendment has also been accepted to improve the care of victims by speeding up the administrative and customised response procedures and gaining in quality and efficiency in the management and accompaniment of victims, because the reality is that the vast majority of victims had never filed a complaint – the fatal victims. Why not? Is it because they do not feel protected by the system? In many cases it is because they know that, after filing the complaint, they will have to go back to their home with the abuser, because they have no economic independence from the one who mistreats them, because they do not have a social network that protects them and they have to go back under the only roof that they find because of the economic precariousness, and also because in many cases there is an emotional dependence, as I said before. Although we do not fully agree with the wording of some points in the final wording, given the importance and gravity of the subject, and in the interests of the consensus we need on this subject, we will vote in favour of the whole motion. Violence against women is not just a problem for women; it is a human rights issue; and the human rights of women are no one's property, but concern us all. A problem of all that is structural and in which no effort should be spared to achieve a pact between all the political forces and actors involved in its total eradication. We need to be aware of the complexity of this problem, and its total eradication implies a social change and mentality that is not automatic following the adoption of a law, but needs the confluence of wills and a real effort of the whole society. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.106.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Also to defend the papers, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, has now the words of Congresswoman Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.107.0	Thank you, Vice President. Good afternoon to everyone. As already mentioned in some previous intervention, we started this plenary on Tuesday with the condemnation of the murder of two women – two in a few days – victims of male violence – already seven in Catalonia in 2016 – and you realize that if we talk about "feminicides this increased quantity, and, moreover, with the delicate little treatment on the part of some media, as has already been said for the companies Moreta and Lienas, of one of these murders. In this Parliament we have made official and unanimous statements against this feminicide, but unfortunately many more actions fall, and we need to act forcefully, focus on the causes and eliminate them. From our group, Together for the Yes, we want to give thanks for the good predisposition to all the groups to find points of consensus, and, above all, to the promoter of the motion, Mrs. Marta Moreta, for her willingness to the dialog in order to reach good agreements, to more, realistic and possible in a short space of time – parliamentary time, yes – on the object of this motion, which deals, I have not forgotten, a topic of topicality and shared concern. Actually, it's not a new issue. This government, from the outset, has already started to work in a solid way in a set of measures to deal with this issue and improve the existing ones, measures that this young man wants to strengthen, and this satisfies us. As the exhibition shows, we can point out that since the government recently promoted the Observer of Gender Equality to help improve and strengthen public policies of gender, the functions of which go to the realms of male violence, the employment situation and the public image of women. This knowledge will enable us to be more effective in focusing the generality's political differences on equality and eradicating male-based violence, and also to incorporate us in the way we approve here today. Yesterday the companion Anna Gabriel told us that it was necessary to advance in this turn towards equality for our daughters, our nebodes, but mainly for our lives and seas. I would humbly add that for us too, because no woman can stay out of it. In this motion we will approve a point of addition to eliminate all existing passages for migrant women. According to the Foreign Law, the women who have filed a complaint and have an order of protection should have a residence permit and work while the criminal proceedings last, and another if there is a sentence. But the application of the measure presents implementation difficulties, such as now the disconnection of the right or the need to denounce it – for the male domain, for the disconnection, for the fact of finding itself without papers... Therefore, we have areas for improvement, and so we want to do, and we know that the government is working on them. Just a few days ago, to the Health Committee, we commented on the phrase of Monique Bégin, which is question: "How did you feel you have to cure people and send them back to the conditions that make them sick? This is the argument that moves us in our approaches. We can't segment or tross, but we have to treat the chakra of male violence as a whole, have a great angled focus and work to destroy its pitfalls. For this reason, from this point of view, we are particularly interested in point 3, which affects equal education, a basic and urgent issue. Just look at the games campaigns of these parties to see some... well, maybe many examples of sexism and stereotype perpetuation. It's about preventing rape from childhood, educating the scoundrel in equality, equity and respect. So we can achieve the objective that we received a few weeks ago from the witnesses who intervened in the act of recognizing victims of male violence: that the time should come for us not to talk about prevention, detection or intervention. We must insist on concrete measures, such as this motion, but above all we must transform the imaginary and the social values. Male rape is not just a physical assault: it is also a form of subtly, humiliation and power. The male violence nullifies the women, and so we recognize it, with great sadness and rage at the same time, in the testimonies of the act that it was arguing. His words and looks showed the reconstruction of some beings who had been unjustly and gratuitously unbuilt. That's why I think, with this spirit, we all approve of this young man today. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.108.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, in order to establish a position on this motion, and on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Congresswoman Marisa Xandri has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.109.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, well, in the first place, I would like to thank Congresswoman Moreta for the opportunity to discuss one of the most dramatic and difficult issues facing our society. Just in the wake of the state, last week three murders were carried out for male violence in less than forty-four hours. After months of relative darkness, unfortunately the reality of gender-based violence has returned to be present at our home in a very striking way. And if we look at these later cases, it is clear that this is a sacra that affects all social leaders: from the most disadvantaged and less religious to the most prepared. When one sees these tragic stories, most unexpected, let me be skeptical, that I can hardly think that we are still able to eradicate the violence of genera at short notice, so that they get away from their hands. That said, and precisely for that, I think that by the time I'm done, by the way, we'll be done with this. And that's why it's important to take these concrete measures and be strong at the time of applying them, so as to ask for more rapid action to the different administrations involved, and above all that there is coordination between the Departments of Interior and Justice, and that this coordination is real and effective. So much has been done, at the state level as autonomous, and, if we look at the figures, we see that an important step has been taken when we deal with this issue. There is an increase in complaints of women who, after being humiliated, have called 012 or 016 to ask for help. Protection orders and convictions have also been increased. Let me also place in value the great unanimous agreement at the Congress of Deputies last November to set aside a state pact against gender-based violence, which will compliment the obligations and recommendations of international bodies, the United Nations and the Istanbul Convention. And here in Catalonia, too, it would be good, as Congresswoman Moreta proposes, to create a Catalan pact on the participation of associations, entities, unions, political parties, etc. As the Socialist Party Member said in her question to the Vice-President, we are dealing with a problem that does not have to be seen with political colors, and that, as has been shown at the state level, I am sure that we would all agree on the key issues. But, as I said, we need to be realists, to take a few steps to the ground, and to know that eradicating this scourge is not possible at short notice, because it takes a paradigm shift to our society, which goes through a better education at school and at home. And, I'm sorry, but the parents are directly responsible for our children and their training: it's not worth parking the children and teenagers at the educational centers and believing that they'll make them great there. The first ones responsible for educating the youngest are the peers, not the Administration. And, therefore, the family, the family, we are the first ones to start at the time of making things clear to our children and corresponding to the example. He told the syndic the other day, in his appearance for the report of sexual abuse to minors: "Parents..., family and social entourage is crucial in the education of minors. In some cases, Dad's state or mom's autonomous community doesn't work; there can be help, but the first formators are the parents and the seas. Deep down in the motion, say we will support it because we understand that everything that is being provided with resources and measures the Administration to fight gender-based violence is positive, even though there are questions that we do not share in the cent_per_cent, as reflected in the text. Totally agree to create a pact, to guarantee the Vido, to strengthen awareness campaigns, to improve attention... And, well, he just wanted to make an element of a point, which is point number 7, which says exactly: "Delete all existing passages for women migrants in an irregular administrative situation to access comprehensive care and protection measures. Totally okay, we agree; I think that's already been done. But I'm the one I'm surprised at, and the one I'd like to ask the congresswoman, right? ... : why do they only refer to these administrative passages, when there are other types of passages that they want to see, for example, with clothing, and that they pose their own pairs following doctrines of falling Islamist? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.110.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. Next, has the word Ms. Marta Moreta, to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.111.0	See, I'm not in this Parliament because I applaud; this, first. I have no intention of this, the object of my interventions. Just to make it clear. Secondly, and to lower the whole, please the intervention and the whole of the words of the Gemma Lienas – many thanks – ; of the Naomi of the Street, although we have not accepted two of its considerations; of the Anna Caula, because we have fought very hard to reach an agreement, and of the Marisa Xandri. But we regret Mrs. Gabriel's intervention, because we believe that on this issue, Mrs. Gabriel, there is no use for party toilets – he was wrong – but it is a joint struggle, from everyone. [[Greetings.]] But let me tell you, Mrs. Gabriel, only in case you don't remember, that it has never progressed so much in women's rights as when there were socialist governments, even though it hurt him. Many assemblies governed by the socialists many years ago that possess resources to the service of attention to women, many, and all the legislation of equality and fight against gender violence is the result of the power of socialist governments. When the CUP achieves only half – half – of legislative reforms..., it will be able to get out before this Faristol and say what it can say. I'll leave it here. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.112.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moreta. We're calling it a vote. Mrs. Gabriel, why ask me the word? [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.113.0	To have starred, 90_percent of the turn of the intervention that precedes me..., and to tell Mrs. Moreta who gets out that it did not go from party toilets, because all her intervention was exactly that, talking about the PSC's grievances and the CUP's deficiencies. And because I believe that you have made a mistake: that you have intended your intervention... on my intervention, that the only one you intend to do is to state that the local community has a lot of responsibility and that there are some gatherings that are making the antithesis of what we are saying needs to be done. And has lost the great opportunity to focus on the racist intervention of the People's Party, Islamophobic absolutely [[remorse of the voice]] They dared to say that the women's clothing is a lock and is a justification to their dead and their assaults. That's hard, that's what the PSC does. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.114.0	Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.115.0	Madam President, because I think we've heard the whole chamber – those of us who were between, not those who are coming in now – as we were objected to by insults on the part of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.116.0	Okay, by allusions, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.117.0	...of the CUP's wallet. I think you heard it, and therefore we hoped that you were the one who called attention to the fact that you had received these insults.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.118.0	I'm sorry, Mr. Rodriguez, I didn't hear any insults. [[Widow's remorse.]] I didn't hear any insults. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.119.0	So, Madam President, for us "racist and Islamophobic" are insults. If they're not for you, I'd like you to look at the dictionary and see what an insult is and what is not an insult. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.120.0	No separate vote has been requested, so we will vote for the whole motion. So, we're going to vote for the motion on gender-based violence. The vote begins. The motion on gender-based violence was approved by 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Perlongats applause.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into housing policies]] [[302-00094/11]] The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on housing policies presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] When you want to. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.121.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, first of all, I would like to greet part of our Barcelona municipal group, which is here today. We came from a real estate bubble that we're still trying to recover from, a real estate bubble that was fed from the administrations. On the other hand, we have a rental market with rising prices. Faced with this situation, the Government, under pressure from civil society, runs to draft the law that has been passed this morning, which seeks to alleviate the most dramatic and urgent effects of housing emergency caused by the housing bubble, but which does not tackle the problem structurally. From Citizens we have voted in favour of the law because a patch is better than nothing, but we are convinced that that law is totally insufficient – totally insufficient. That is why we are presenting a motion aimed at making the right to housing a real right, a right of citizenship, because we believe that sitting around waiting for what happens to the real estate market is an absolute irresponsibility, even more so when we are barely trying to recover from the last mess. To address the problem of housing, it is necessary to do so from different angles. First, legislative measures must be promoted to ensure that sheltered housing for sale is no longer available. Here it has been speculated with land intended for sheltered housing, and this cannot happen again. Secondly, by means of fiscal measures, by using the property transfer tax not only as a collection measure, but also as a tool to encourage good behavior and discourage bad behavior. We propose a heritage transfer tax that takes into account social equity criteria – and social equity has to do with progressive – and that especially improves people with disabilities, large families and single parents. What we are proposing with this difference in rates is also to establish a scale that encourages prices not to rise on the market. We also propose to prevent the increase in the price of housing in those areas where the tourist pressure reduces the rental market and raises prices by allocating 30_per_cent of the tourist tax collection to the purchase of public park for affordable rent. This measure not only helps to keep life-long neighbours in their neighbourhood, but also promotes social mobility, and is the best way to get a family out of the trap of poverty. We have not wanted to forget measures of transparency and quality in housing – with a new decree of habitability – nor the impetus to the energy rehabilitation of five hundred thousand homes, a measure which, in addition to benefiting the environment in terms of reducing emissions, also helps to fight energy poverty. We have also introduced mechanisms to prevent the price of housing from rising disproportionately by monitoring the market and housing conditions, so that those sellers or tenants who sell or rent below these recommended maximum prices have some kind of tax benefit. And we come to the mother of the lamb, which is a housing plan: to comply with Law 18/2007, which equals our public housing park to the European average; a public park that requires strong investments, concrete policies and a government that takes the right to housing seriously, which accompanies these policies with good funding. We have thought that the figure of billions a year is accruable if the accounts are done well and, instead of investing in national construction, it is invested in building real rights, of which it does revert to the well-being of the citizen. With this housing park, housing needs would be met, and it would also serve to contain the speculative dynamics of the market. We are grateful for the amendments tabled by the Socialist Party and the CUP groups; we have accepted all the amendments except CUP No 3 and PSC No 2. We have tabled this motion because we understand that urban planning and housing policies are part of the welfare state, because we want to avoid a new housing bubble. We don't want to wait to see what happens – if the stars are propitious – and we don't want to leave anyone in the gutter. That is why we have tabled this complex motion, yes, which, rather than a motion, is a government program. We therefore hope that the Government of the Generalitat will take these measures and make them its own, so that the right to housing will truly be a right of all citizens. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.122.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. De la Calle. Next, the words of Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to defend the papers presented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.123.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Councillor, Members and Members, presents us, the Ciutadans Group, a motion on housing policies. We must say that we share the ultimate objective that we are sure that you are pursuing this young man, that is, to improve the conditions of access to housing, to encourage that the housing is in greater proportion than we have yet to meet, and that this is amenable to it. In doubt, we agree, it could not be any other way; but in order to achieve this last objective that they present to us, they propose a series of measures, which... some of us understand are uncertain, and others we believe that they should be improved or that they do not go in the line of our plans. So we're already telling them that we're going to ask for a separate vote on some of the issues. To thank them is to be able, therefore, to work in these points, in which we have seen – now I will detail – that even they have made modifications at the last hour that will allow us to give support in some points in which we did not intend to do so. Who are these points? So, respect the tax measures that you proposed in the motion, we have that, in the tax on property transfers and documented legal acts, you were in the same space, let's say, what is the purchase of "lives" and what is the logger of "lives". A conversation that we have had has allowed this same criteria, for one or the other, to be separated, and, therefore, that you already set, for one side, a series of better in the taxation of the tax on the purchase, while in the loggers they offer a 90_per_cent bonus in the public park and in the normal logger, of the market, while in the social logger park they set a 99_per_cent. We have to say that in the law of measures we have seen that this is already happening, in the public park, but you apply it to the whole social logger, even if it is for private. Therefore, this issue seems positive to us, and it is one of the issues that has changed criteria for us at the time of voting on this issue. Other measures that they present to us and that we do not agree..., is what refers to the tourist tax. For us, the tourist tax must be devoted to making tourism policies, and, in any case, the possible dysfunctions that tourism can cause on the habitat should be faced with other areas and with other resources, not those of the tourist tax. They then propose to us to intervene on municipal taxes, and here they propose to us tax subsidies on immovable property – of the IBI – and they block the actions of the Generality and of the joint ventures. In any case, the IBI bonuses are marked by law; therefore, first caldrian legislative amendments, because this is possible, such as bonuses, and in any case, if not, we would be talking about subsidies. But, in this band, we believe that to make these proposals we should have the consent of the municipalities. We cannot, we understand, from Parliament, focus on these issues without talking to the municipalities, which, moreover, have very different realities in housing themes across the Catalan territory. Therefore, we would agree on those points which provide for the establishment of coordination and collaboration mechanisms between administrations to achieve the objective of improving access to housing. In other proposals that they present, technical, technical, nor are we in agreement; for example, in the topic of the habitability report to the second occupations or in the application of the orientation prices linked precisely to these habitability reports. For us, the information that this habitability report can provide us already gives us, on the one hand, the habitability cells, in the case of the second occupations, and, on the other hand, the energy efficiency certificate, which for some years has been mandatory for buildings. We would agree on urban measures. And, in the case of the housing plan they propose, we have submitted two papers. One, designed to outline the proposal you are making with respect to the model change: from a model based on ownership, which is what we now have, to a model based on the available logger. We have added to it..., in the sense of achieving the balance between the property and the lodger; we have made an addition, which you have collected, and we appreciate it. And that's because we understand that big parks also have problems: they have problems maintaining habitats, they have problems maintaining common space, public space. Therefore, the balance between the two forms of tenance seems more uncertain to us. And, for another band, we proposed to change what you were initially talking about, the autonomous housing pact, to re-edit the National Housing Pact. We have seen that they have finally changed the nomenclature, and that we understand that what matters is not the name but the content of which we have this pact, we will also accept it. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And, lastly, so much good can be spent on the 1,000_million that you, therefore, put in this year's housing motion. We think it's a toast to the sun. We think it's an intention... in any case, that they want to make a pact of good intentions, but that's not possible. So, we, on a good part of this young man, will give him a lift so that we can give them, because we understand his willingness to go and improve access to housing, to get...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.124.0	Mrs. Ibarra, you've run out of time. Rosa Maria Ibarra Ollé ... housing of lloger– yes, thank you, president– and that the lloger is more amenable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.125.0	Thank you, Mrs. Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.126.0	Next, the words of Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.127.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, this is one of those motions that, when we read it for the first time, we said: "Host, good music, pleased us, we understood that it was going to support the purchase of affordable and social logger. Then we took a second and a third reading, and we thought that we would vote against it because it was moving away from our positions, and, more importantly, we had the feeling that it was more aimed at favoring the intentions of the banks and the great habitators than it is at covering the needs of those who today see their right to a decent habitation. And today, a few hours before the debate... we will vote for and accept it, after having accepted many of the papers we have presented. And we'd like to say what happened, because we haven't gone crazy or lost our minds, but we simply think that, somehow, we've adjusted the letter to the music, shared, huh? , that we think there is a young man, to be in favor of lloger and social housing. Hardly – the Socialist Party's partner has already said – a movement can fit everything that would correspond to a national housing pact, but it is obvious that it also... And, in addition, the fiscal progressive proposal that is made in principle is good; the problem is that – and we say it to the principle – it is better for some than for others. In fact, in the first essay we thought that those who benefited the most from it were the people, precisely, that they had a higher purchasing power. And that, when we transferred it – this progression – to legal persons, somehow it passed the same way, and we asked ourselves who they were headed to. We, when we saw that there were proposals for improvements intended for those who include buildings of dwellings, even though it is intended to allocate them to a suitable social logue, or to buy buildings for their rehabilitation, or to acquire land..., therefore, wrongly or not, the CUP, when you see this, thinks, irremovably, that we are talking about societies – companies of real estate reversal –, voltairs de inversión, Solvia, etcetera, and others. It is to say that we thought that it was a proposal aimed at benefiting, once more, the banks and financial entities, their own real estate, that, in order to reduce costs and make the social logists of the remaining floors more profitable, and to have paid them, as we have said repeatedly, with public money... And it is for this reason that we presented the message at this point, a message that you have accepted, and we appreciate it, and that goes in the line of giving social value to the proposal. And the social value of the proposal is that we can only give it there if we are able to carry out these improvements to entities that are not intended for profit, third-sector entities and social economy entities, and not because we are following more cooperative, more socialist or..., etc., but because these entities have shown themselves to be the only ones that provide non-regulatory housing for market prices. A market of which – that of habitat – protected habitat has disappeared; a market which, despite rare exceptions, has proved highly ineffective in the adjustment between the offer and the demand, and which has opened large locks between market prices and the maximum tolerable prices, which pose a serious question of access to habitat at a reasonable price. We found the same before the bonus. In a beginning, we thought: "Well, who do we want to improve? Is it possible to improve large real estate investment companies, or do we think it would be appropriate to improve those immovables that have put them in housing or housing bags in the same municipalities? We – and we also appreciate the emena – are for this second option. Given the measures of urban character, we asked to incorporate and take into account, beyond the use of the logger, also the cessation of use and the right of surface; they have also been incorporated. And if we've asked for the cancellation of the quality certification, it's not because we're against having some housing, so, with good quality, but we think that it's a repeated petition, that it's starting to be repeated, that it's a song of siren to the occupation of the technicians, and, more importantly, that we don't agree with the fact that you represent an overcost. They offered us an autonomous housing plan. From the CUP, we think that we need to go beyond the limits of autonomy and move towards a _marc that will rise in the right to housing; that the right to housing is supported by housing policies: structural policies, economically sustainable, short and long-term the main response that will have to face the housing policy in Catalonia in this 21st century, which is nothing other than to balance the cost of housing and to include energy expenditure in the entrances of the world. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] As I said to the principle – I finish, president –, the motion can hardly fit into what is appropriate to a national housing plan, but I did, we think – once accepted the papers, which we appreciate – the willingness to reverse the difficult situation of disability that our country suffers in terms of housing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.128.0	Thank you, Mr. Garriga. Next, has the word Lord Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.129.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, we'll give support to the thick of the motion presented to us by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. So let me make a few specifics, so we can ask for a separate vote from a few points, because we think they're uplifting. You see, at our beginnings we also had a lot of doubts about tax measures for a first assessment, because they are of a precision and complexity that adds up to the margin of discussion and elaboration that we have in the wake of a young man's debate, huh? I think we would have been, perhaps, more inspired – we understand philosophy and concern, and we share them – to have a working group that we could have, with the help and with the collaboration of experts, that we all have to go to consult these days to make ourselves - in an opinion..., this issue. I say this because simply, in general, looking at the type of rates and the tax types currently handled by the Catalonia Tax Agency..., it works with a lot more simplified schemes. And in general, in tax policy, sometimes, more worth little law and well combed, too, huh? ; sometimes, the excess of casuistic complicates the thing and does not clearly appear what is being pursued. Also, we recognize that there has been an effort, because we are, if I don't recall it badly, in the third or fourth version – I have already lost count – of tax measures. And, as a copy of the papers, we actually see what we think was the first intention, that was to introduce, let's say, a social philosophy and progressive in the type of deductions they proposed. I think he finally got it and drew it, this will. So we'll give it support. To the beginning, I confess we had a lot of doubts, huh? And it seemed to us that there were different elements and casuistic differences, and there was no clear..., this philosophy, as articulated in the first proposal. A question on which we will abstain, and we will abstain because we think that it is not well resolved as it remains in the young person, is the subject of the tourist tax. You see, there will be a debate – there will be a debate – and a work of discussions just during the preparation of the presuppositional proceedings, because the tourist tax will be the object of the debate. We are in favour of taking over the tourist tax not to promote tourism, but essentially to repair the impacts and to make sustainable the impact of tourism on our towns and cities. Tanmateix, to say that it is strictly necessary to..., that in such a sharp way it is to revert to habitat..., well, I think here we will see which proposals are coming, because we will collect proposals from the local world in the course of the elaboration of the assumptions and of the modification or the considerations of the tourist tax. So, we're going to abstain because it's more matisate, huh? That sounds like a mistake trying to solve it and stick it now, now, in a young man. In the same way that neither seems fortunate to us the way in which we intervene or influence from Parliament on issues that are of municipal order and that, in general, should be..., it is good whenever they are very pacted, very hard-working, very elaborate together with the local world. So, these are the objections. For what it does to the rest, it seems to us well the concern that is due to the conjunction of the motion for what it does to the promotion of the habitat; the park of lloger; the defense, too, that is to the qualification of the protected habitat; the concern, in general, to fight against the abusive llogers... I think it is a good thing, that we return a little more to the charge on a topic that is a topic that is cabdal. This morning I think the discussion has put it in the store, and it's good to put it back, too, this young man. Therefore, we will give support to the rest and we will abstain at the last point, and not because we do not agree..., we would actually like each year to invest 1,000_million or more in housing policies, only because the first proof of this will be the subject of the assumptions, and we already have a lot of them. So, there's a part, like I said, of a certain toast to the sun, huh? Naturally, we'd love for it to be like this – for it to be like this. We have already told the principle that we have doubts because a certain way of formulating this question could be answered or criticized from the point of view of what the Law of Presuppositions is, that it is hardly possible to admit that it is stuck or predetermined in its parameters. That is why we shall abstain, because it seems to us to be a desirable political wish, but between desire and reality, dissociatedly, there is another thing. But, in general – I finish with this – congratulate you on the effort to raise all these problems, to try to straighten them out. And we think we can finally get out of a young man that's useful, since we're today in a quiet debate that we've done this morning and that we're going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.130.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Next, the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.131.0	Thank you, President. I welcome the possible turn of Mr. Rabell to demand presuppositional restraint, to demand fiscal rigour and to demand also a competitive distinction, that no one stifles the competitions of others; clear, then, you, when you ask that here..., it is not brought to the Constitutional..., that is: to separate and distinguish competitions. The Citizens' Group is presenting us with a powerful, broad motion, which relates to the law that we have discussed this morning, and to a real problem of Catalans, a real problem that has to do with access to housing and also access to sustainable and accessible rental. And we welcome a text and a debate that is important, that is necessary, but that must be done with extreme rigour, that must be done with great rigour. And I'm not a friend to cross the Atlantic – I try not to do it, because you have to work on your arguments – but today I'm going to do it. Because, in the end, when you opt for simplicity in these things, it turns you into a boomerang. In Caracas it was forbidden... [[Widow's remorse.]] I say I'm not a friend to do it, but they're gonna let me do it once. [[Rialles.]] In Caracas the complete eviction of the rent was prohibited. Do you know what's going on? That the rental market has died completely. Well, of course, maybe some of them want to load up the market, but no one puts up any flats for rent. 99_per_cent of the headlines don't put up their floor... because they're afraid they won't pay for it. I want to say that these things have to be done with utmost prudence, especially when in Catalonia and in the whole of Spain much of the wealth, and especially of the middle classes and also of the lower middle ones, is in real estate, and there are many middle class and lower class families..., sorry, no, middle class, who have rented floors and also live, in a certain way, of them. Another example: the Barcelona City Council has ruled for two years; prices have been triggered, rental prices have been triggered. They say: "No, it is not our fault. Well, there are various hypotheses, but... one hypothesis: the hotel moratorium. The hotel establishment, happy, of course. Demand is going to continue to rise, we can raise prices. And in the meantime, the demand will be fired and it will go to tourist rental flats, and in the end we pay everything, and the neighbors pay it. That is to say, few improvisations, with these topics, because in the end they can turn you like a boomerang and they can end up harming those you want to favor, as Mr. Amat said this morning. And you said now, with a new liberal turn of the Catalunya Group Yes, it is Pot: "Few and good laws, simple and well done. Because, in the end, if not, when you want to intervene too much... [[Someone said: "And well applied.]] And well applied. Because these liberals... it's that I have to make a little speech, because, if not, so... [[Widow's remorse.]] One has to make few laws and well applied, because if you intervene excessively in the market at the end the market goes elsewhere, and you have to go patching and patching, and more intervention, and more intervention, to contain the bad laws and excessive intervention that you have had in the beginning. We are therefore in favour of legal certainty, increased supply and subsidiary and powerful aid for those who cannot access the market. We voted on it this morning, and a major item is put to the vote today. It's just that the Generalitat, listen, they haven't done anything. The tripartite, I said this morning, promised us 96,000 squares, and in the end they have only built four special areas of protected houses. Therefore, what we have to do is also remove barriers, ladies and gentlemen, for access to housing. It's just, of course, you want to buy a flat – you want to buy a flat – and what's wrong with it? He says, "Man, I'm going to save years and years..., unless you're like someone who..., sorry, good. [[Rialles.]] Many, many people, in Spain..., to 50_per_cent of people parents help them to buy the apartment, to 50_per_cent of young people, okay? But they say: "I will save. I'm going to make an effort. I have achieved 20_per_cent to get the entrance! , because the bank asks me to have at least 20_per_cent. Of course, you say: "I've got it. Well, no, because then the Administration comes, with the transaction tax, and... 10 percent more, and then you don't get there and you run out of home. And then they charge you the notarial costs, and then they charge you the transaction costs. And one says: "Take off your hand at once [[the timer riu]] I want to be able to buy the apartment. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.132.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.133.0	Therefore, we reduce capital gains, municipal prices, and encourage affordable rent, low-priced rent. I believe that, rather than constrain the price of the market, what needs to be done is to stimulate with bonuses, with public projects, social rent, rent at affordable prices for many families. We could go on, but we will be in favour of the vast majority of this motion, although on some points we will abstain. Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.134.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Next, the words of Mr. Jordi Munell, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.135.0	Well, thank you, President. He will advise, counsel, deputies, deputies, well, in this case, from Junts for the Yes, with this young man who presents Ciutadans, after reading it and reconnecting it, huh? And despite the fact that we certainly agree with what has been discussed here, in this Parliament, even this morning, with the bill's proposal... so we all work for the same, don't we? , to promote the right to housing, to guarantee the right to housing and to establish measures to promote the right to housing. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you feel it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah. Well, in this case, we will also ask for separate votes from the different points, because, as you know, the motion is divided into different themes, right? For one thing, fiscal measures; in this case of fiscal measures, a little in coherence with the processing that we are doing of the assumption and also in coherence with what we believe is being done – and we think it is doing well – of the government that we are giving support to, so we think that at these times the existing bonuses, which are already with a general character of a 10_per_cent, of a type reduced by 5_per_cent to certain named collections and families, and also of a 7_per_cent for reasons of official protection..., we think that is enough, at these times. But we also remember that since the 2015 '1 genera we also have a general type of 0.50_per_cent in the housing loggers. Also, today, as you know, there is the parliamentary handling of the Public Sector Tax, Administrative and Finance Bill, in which there is also a medium type based on the value of the property, as well as a 99_per_cent subsidy for public park housing leases intended for social logger. There are also bonuses, so, in many other cases, huh? I won't mention them all. As the same man says, he also does to legal persons, that is to say, to societies that serve the park of "living to social logue", eh? Therefore, in this sense, at this point we will not support it. In any case, it is also the case that, from the Ciutadans motion, the transmission charge for the ‘lives' is directly attacked, but in change, it is not a matter of VAT, is it not? Therefore, it seems as if everything about the financing of the Generality, so we are going to try to change it, but in no case is there any element, for example, of VAT, which is a state tax, as you know, right? Or, for example, we also plant as an incongruity the fact that it is likely to improve ‘lives of more than EUR 345,000_. Therefore, we do not understand the social recast of this proposal either. Therefore, in this sense, therefore, in this point of tax and fiscal measures, we would say no. For what it does on the subject of the tourist tax, in fact, we refer to the law regulating the tourist tax, and we understand that this tax must be intended precisely, a part of it, as you know, in conjunctions, just for the promotion of it for what it is thought, eh? And in any case, therefore, it is more useful, in terms of housing, to focus precisely on the law that we have dealt with this morning, isn't it? Then, they also talk to us about IBI's themes, about getting old because from the generality you are old because you have completed the meetings. We understand that this is a matter of complete autonomy and municipal competence, and therefore we understand that Parliament, therefore, must respect this autonomy. And anyway, as it is now, this good will is being promoted, but we have to respect the gatherings. There is also a subject, which we are asked to coordinate with municipal authorities. In this case, as much as we already know is being done, in this case we will abstain. A abstention, because, as you know, the application of Royal Decree 2/2004, for which the theme of "permanently unemployed lives" is developed..., is precisely the State, which has not developed the corresponding regulation, eh? And, therefore, in this case it is not the competence of the Generality, but in any case we are also committed, from the action of the Government, to which we support, therefore, to claim to the State that I also work to develop this legislation that has not been done. As you know, there are certain feelings, huh? , of the High Court of Justice, in the sense of leaving no effect on these difficulties which have occurred on the IBI to "unemployed lives". After that, they talk about the transparency and quality of the ‘lives'; in this case, concretely, about the themes of the decree of habitability. In this case, we would also vote no, because we think that at these times, so, so much what the habitable cell does as the registry of cells does, huh? , the same..., at these times Decree 141/2012 already provides, in its article 15, as are these habitable cells; it also refers to the habitats prior to 1984, which did not have a cell, or even, also, in article 19, it is precisely speaking of this registry of habitable cells. In the next point, we are talking about coordinating public administration, the differences between us, to follow up on the market offer. Well, in this case, we'll give them support; we'll give them support because it's already done, huh? From government action, just as you also know, there is the Llogger Habitat Fund for social policies. It's one that's formed by a dozen public institutions and entities represented in the committee, which gathered just about the month of June...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.136.0	Mr. Munell, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.137.0	...to value your first year. I, in this case – let's give her the xifra, almenys, Madam President – has gone from a park of 24,000 to 33,800" dwellings destined for these social purposes. Therefore, we understand that the work is being done. And, if I may, just point 14, it's also a misproposal to talk to us about 1,000_million a year to devote them to social policies. What do we want most, ourselves, in a_marc...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.138.0	You've run out of time, Mr. Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.139.0	...just for which we work. Thank you. Five minutes in a hurry. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.140.0	Next, there's the word "Madam De la Calle", to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.141.0	Thank you. Firstly, I wanted to highlight the efforts and the will of the Socialist Party and the UPC to reach an agreement to take forward many of the points. Also thank you for the interventions of both Lluís Rabell, Catalunya Yes it is Pot, as well as Fernando Sánchez Costa, of the PP, because they have contributed to the debate, which has been enriching, and hopefully we will resume it soon. As for the intervention of Junts pel Yes, the citizens have made it clear to us that, with the issue of housing, they will feel once again like Beckett waiting for Godot. Junts pel Yes: "Things are being dealt with, politics will not come today; they will come tomorrow, tomorrow yes. What is going to happen to the citizens is that they will continue to wait for those responsible for this whole mess to do something to solve what they themselves encouraged, waiting for them to take steps to prevent it from happening again. And besides, he was there, in the chair, listening to the argument, remembering me this morning, of Mr. Solsona's words, wasn't he? That we have heard the word'scam'. Mr. Solsona, we have clean hands. We are not trapped, we are not trapped with all the real estate bubble that has been created, also promoted by the administrations, by all parties without exception, by their party [[remorse of the veils.]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.142.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.143.0	...convergence party, even though they think that changing names we're going to forget all their misdeeds [[remorse of voice and some applause]] , benefiting from the fact that housing is not assumed as a right but as a market asset. Because that is one of the biggest shames of this country, the absolute inaction of successive governments, of successive administrations, who have seen housing as a resource to fill their arches and – why not say so? – also their pockets, rather than as a right that must be sought to guarantee. If it is that until Junts pel Yes yesterday we were told that we were going to vote against preventing the Administration from again speculating on public ground from urban requalifications. They'll want to wait and wait, waiting for the citizen to forget, to go back to the streets and pay customer debts. They say that 1,000_million is barbarity and that it is insurmountable. Look, the cost overrun on the 9_de_metre line is four times that amount. Thousand million is the 3_per_cent of the budget of the Generalitat. 3_per_cent, does that amount ring a bell? ; to citizenship, yes. And what citizens want to hear is that this time they will use 3_per_cent not to fill their pockets and those of their friends, but to implement public policies that have a positive effect to ensure a constitutional right such as the right to housing. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.144.0	Thank you, Mrs. De la Calle. We're calling it a vote. Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.145.0	For a separate vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.146.0	How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.147.0	Yeah, for a band, point 8.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.148.0	Over.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.149.0	Yeah. I, for the other, could go all together on 2, 3, 5, 7 and 14 - 2, 3, 5, 7, 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.150.0	Mr. Garriga, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.151.0	Vote separate from point 5 and 14.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.152.0	Point 5 and 14. Therefore, they can no longer vote together, as Mrs Granados had asked. [[Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]] Mr. Coscubila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.153.0	See, it's to ask for separate votes from points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 14.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.154.0	Okay. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I think, together, not anymore. I don't think we can vote on anything now, because...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.155.0	For us, one, two...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.156.0	Yeah, yeah, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.157.0	...and 14 could vote together, and 3 and 5 too, but I suppose it's...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.158.0	No, no, because... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, because we do not agree with the Socialist Group. [[Jordi Munell and Garcia ask to speak.]] Mr. Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.159.0	Yeah. In any case, we would also ask for a separate vote from all points, because we do not agree with the ones they have proposed. [[Rialles and some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.160.0	Okay. Separate votes on points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8 and 14 were requested. All right? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All of them, he said all of them. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay, so, we'll take a separate vote from all points. Start? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. We'll vote for point number one. The vote begins. There was a tie, at number 1: 61 votes in favour, 61 against and 11 abstentions. Therefore, according to the Rules, this point number 1 will be re-voted. Therefore, the vote begins. The result is the same, a tie: 61 votes in favour, 61 against and 11 abstentions. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, we have to take a third vote. We have to let go of the minutes... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, two minutes. The vice president says he's already here. [[Widow's remorse.]] We call for a vote in case someone's missing. [[Remove from sight and take a long break.]] If it sounds good to you, let's go make the third vote. You know, if the Emperor persists, the number one point falls. The vote begins. The result was the same: 61 votes in favour, 61 against, 11 abstentions. Therefore, this point number 1 is rejected. Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.161.0	Because I think the chamber deserves an explanation of vote from our group. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.162.0	I think that, anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.163.0	It allows – allows – the Regulation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.164.0	Mr. Coscubiela, in the end – in the end. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Coscubila...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.165.0	Does it matter to you that the president governs?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.166.0	Please, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.167.0	Does it matter to you that the president governs?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.168.0	Mr Coscubiela, at the end of the vote; not in the middle of the vote. Next, we'll vote point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been rejected by 45 votes to 77, with 11 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 45 votes in favour, 88 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 72 votes to 61 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected by 35 votes in favour, 98 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number seven. The vote begins. Point 7_has been rejected by 46 votes to 77, with 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8_has been rejected by 56 votes to 61, with 16 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 9. The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved by 123 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number 10. The vote begins. Point 10_has been approved by 123 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number 11. The vote begins. Point 11_has been approved by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 12. The vote begins. Point 12_has been approved by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 13. The vote begins. Point 13_has been approved by 71 votes to 60, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for number 14. The vote begins. Point 14_has been rejected by 25 votes to 77, with 31 abstentions. There is no more room; therefore, let's go to the next point... Mr. Coscubila, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.169.0	To explain the vote on the first point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.170.0	Explain the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.171.0	Well, quite simply, I think he deserves it, the chamber. See... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.172.0	Please. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.173.0	As you may have been able to prove, this is the part of the motion that refers to the tax treatment of this reality, with a level of detail and detail and completeness – which does not necessarily mean rigour – that makes at these times none, nor those who voted one thing or those who voted the other, we are on condition that we know what type of impact this has. Taking this into account, and taking into account that, in addition, we are asking the Government to review the issues of tax subsidies, treatment, which at the same time means a minority of receipts on the part of public finances, we believe that this should be done after a study on its impact, and it was an elementary rule of prudence when we dealt with the issue of taxation. That's why we've put so much pressure on forbearance. We are not against or in favour; we simply want to know what exactly we are voting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.174.0	The twenty-two point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the international policy of the Catalan Republic, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent. [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the international policy of the Catalan Republic]] [[302-00095/11]] To expose her, Mr. Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.175.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, well, as we have already put in the proposed inquiry to the Government, which precedes this motion, the purpose or the two main purposes for presenting it, to propose it to the chamber, they are from a band, to make an attempt, to make an effort to consolidate, so as to reinforce what is the foreign policy and what is the Catalan public diploma of the Generality at these times, but also, at the same time, to prepare the land, to give signs, to point out objectives, objectives and strategies both for the period of transition between autonomy and independence as at the same time, before, already, in what we have a normal international policy, as they correspond to any independent country. These are the two main purposes that we plant in the chamber to approve this motion. And what do we propose in the text of the motion to settle these two objectives? On one side, consolidate what foreign policy is, and, on the other, begin to prepare the land for our international political structure as well as the independent country, and, at the same time, take into account the transition period. Well, therefore, this is what we deploy in the points of the movement, of a band, proposing that we become a reference actor in the construction of a new Euro-Mediterranean geopolitics based on pau, solidarity, cooperation, democracy and self-determination of peoples; of another band, building or actively contributing to building a new Europe of peoples and nations, democratic, just, diverse and solid, that can overcome the current atzucac of the European Union. It is not clear to anyone that at this time the European Union is a political project, it is a political institution that is going through a deep crisis – a deep crisis –, largely motivated precisely by the internal and external policies of a large part of the national states that are part of it. Therefore, the sum of these national states' policies and the same political orientation of the European Union are leading our continent, therefore, to a situation of very worrying political collapse, from the point of view of its economic, political and social dynamics. Therefore, what we propose in this motion is that our country assume the vocation of a new project for Europe, a Europe of peoples and nations. On the other hand, we also propose in the motion to accentuate the presence, incidence and contribution of Catalans in the United Nations system. This seems to us to be a key aspect, because that is where most people and nations are in which we can find coincidences, solidarity and mutual support. On the other hand, also, as it could not be in any other way... that we take an active role in defending the national, civil and political rights of other peoples and nations that legitimately and democratically claim their right to self-determination and independence. It is to say that we, in our process towards independence, towards the republic, and at the moment when we bring it together, become an active, responsible, committed and present actor at the international concert to defend the rights of the other peoples, both in Europe and outside Europe, who also want to follow this path. A very important point, and I will read it almost textually: "To also exercise an active defense of the rights of the original peoples and their ancestral territories so that they can decide their own model of development, and this also does so before the interests of states and corporations that practice extractivism, by global responsibility, by solidarity with the people and also by planetary responsibility. And, finally – in the end – what we are proposing is that our birth actually becomes a new actor in the European and Euro-Mediterranean context; that the Catalan countries become a new actor who, before any commercial, military or political deal that may have a negative impact on the free development of the peoples, on the deepening of democracy, of the paul, of equality, of global justice in the Euro-Mediterranean context..., that we put ourselves at the front in defending these rights and in fighting against the actors who want to rape them. In short, a new actor for a new world order, for a new global order, that makes our independence not worth it only for us, but that the whole world can say someday that our independence has been worth it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.176.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word Mr Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.177.0	Thank you, President. Well, I, first of all, would like to thank the two Members with whom I have worked most on this text for the facility they have given us: to Mr Carles Riera, who is from the promoter group, because we have spoken and we have already done so, but also to Mr Jordi Sendra, because, despite the fact that he knows that we have some differences of background, we have found the right point of the text, which we are satisfied enough to be able to defend this young man, and therefore announce that we will vote in favour of it. We have submitted various papers. From these items, some have incorporated, others have transactiond, and even some of us have removed it, because we wanted the text to be approved, and it was not our task, which you prevented the text from being finally processed. If we want to signify this text, which we believe are also important: first of all, to say that the external action policy that we are assessing is much more than the disclosure of the Catalonia self-determination process; it is much more than that, but it is also that. And, therefore, this disclosure is also part of external action. But, I'm saying, external action isn't just that. Secondly, external action is not only helping the internationalization of Catalan companies abroad; it is also this, but it is not just this. It's so much more than helping this internationalization. And this Parliament believes that it has made a very important contribution to it, with this observer of human rights who, from the civil society and experiences of Catalan entrepreneurs in Colombia, together with Lafede. And with the Table for Colombia, we have been developing, because this must be a Catalonian brand: the defence of human rights in the external action of our government and our businesses, too. It is also important that Catalonia is vaguely converted and is a critical referent of the current political and institutional framework of the European Union. Another Europe is possible, which overcomes the social and democratic deterioration in which at this moment the European Union is found; another Europe of peoples and nations, democratic, socially just, diverse and solidary. In this European Union, the independence we want must be sovereignty, because it is only sovereignty, the true independence ; « independence can remain with an empty word, and therefore we want to talk about « sovereignty. That's what we're interested in, regardless of whether we're still independent or not. Also say yes to this new world governance that is pointed out in the text: global justice, environmental sustainability, pau, dialeg. That is why we must say that we continue to criticize this vestige of the Cold War, which is NATO as an invalid instrument for foreign policy, for the foreign action we want for the Government of Catalonia. Also defend – yes – the rights of the people before the corporations, sense dubte. And, therefore, to be critical of free trade, CETA and TTIP, which try to impose the logic of large corporations on people, governments and parliaments. That's what it's about, it's about sovereignty; it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's And finally, yes to a new Catalan public diplomacy, with cooperation with institutions, universities and Catalan civil society, which has long been doing a part of our best public diplomacy outside Catalonia. And among all, among institutions, universities and civil society, we can develop a new model of public diplomacy. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.178.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferran Pedret has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.179.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies..., deputy Riera, let the intervention begin, first of all, tell him that we regret that our pocket has turned out to be an axis, because we have presented him with a series of five papers with all the good faith and with all the good that we would have had occasion to speak-n300-00101/11e. It hasn't been like that, we haven't had a response to our reviews by your group. Worried as we were by the reasons for which this could have been so, we have looked at them again, and we can hear them perfectly... In fact, I fully understand that our theme number 3 can't, let's just say, not even estimate their negotiation, because, certainly... we respond to different political approaches. Regarding the other four, we believe that we may have found some point of contact, and that, despite the title and general political orientation of the motion, we may have reached some agreement respecting some of the points of the motion. Because it is true that we have only recently agreed to the Foreign Affairs Committee, but many of these questions have already been voted on, and we have voted on them together, their group with mine and with other groups, such as Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, and sometimes also with the Group of Joints for Yes. In fact, so much so that, on some occasion, and obviously, before we started this legislature..., with the Law of External Action there was, let's say, sufficiently broad agreements because some – not all, it is true – of the principles that emerge listed in its motion are incorporated as guiding principles of Catalan external action. In fact, with our first thought, what we did was to incorporate in the wording, without altering the text that you already provided, an addition that mentioned these guiding principles of Catalan external action, which I find quite interesting to reproduce in part. First of all, "the compromise that the full European and Mediterranean vocation of Catalonia presides over the application of the objectives of external action and relations with the European Union; the search for political consensus in the orientations and general strategies of external action; this is not a retreat to its parliamentary group, but rather the understanding that, in the Government, there is a lack of such consensus close to political consensus; "the guarantee of coherence, coordination, cross-cutting and effectiveness in the development of external cooperation; transparency; the recognition of the right of people and peoples to the defence and promotion of culture, language and identity; the promotion of multi-cultural diversity; and the recognition of the right of people to freedom of expression, etc. Well, that was one of the exams. The other anapones in lines that tried to do this, complete the text. Couldn't find us there. So let's say, to go together, that we can't give support to this issue, because, in the final given wording, I've seen that we haven't even had a chance to get into your deeper work. It seems to me that it was clearly oriented towards a future political situation for which you are working, very legitimately; but surely it would be misunderstood, without the chance of working it before and having clearly established which points of agreement and discrepancy our group supports. Surely, this..., if you get caught up in the political objective you're pursuing, will be the occasion for us to debate in which a lot of us could probably find ourselves again. Let's say, in the end, that..., I may fail the memory, because it's one thing that happens more every time, but I would say that we have discussed very similar motions presented for the same group, and I would say that the smile of Councillor Romeva almost confirms it, because I also provoked that smile of Councillor Romeva when he said: "Some of the things that the Government of the Generality insists on doing..., I don't seem to need to complain to him that he is making more efforts at this, because he seems to be absolutely committed to this goal. It's weird that this is said to be opposition, but that's it, huh? You mean to do something that is absolutely decided to do; with greater or lesser degree of success, I no longer know, but in any case you try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.180.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Next, has the word Lord Jordi Sendra, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.181.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, MPs, MPs, how is the new border state going to work there? What must be the role of Catalonia abroad? What international relations do we have to maintain in the future, and are you based on what way of doing it? I believe that these questions – many, of course – that many of us are also being asked by the Parliamentary Group of the CUP – are in their question to the Councillor of the Exterior of the Ple. And, all the while, Mr Riera is giving us a follow-up of proposals that have been reflected in the motion we are debating today. Do we want Catalonia to be a country close to itself, concerned only to solve the problems of its citizens? Certainly not. We want Catalonia to only age because more tourists come, because more investments come from other countries, and old people just because our businesses are more internationalized and exporting more and more? Certainly not. Do we want a Catalonia that you make as a passive spectator that passes beyond our borders? Certainly not. Do we want a 17th-century Catalan diploma, like Spanish today? A diploma, as the Romeva Councillor said, focused exclusively on a glue of ambassadors and consols who went through the world finding, gathering and making summits that ultimately end many times drawing up a reality that has nothing to do with what actually affects thousands, millions, of people in the world? Certainly not. Catalonia is a country with many added values that it must offer to the world, which it wants to offer to the world. And when we go outside we don't just explain why we want to be a free state among the free countries, but we also offer the vision, the Catalan way of seeing the world, the Catalan way of doing things: with pau, dialog, solidarity, cooperation, democracy, always with humility. And we want to be active actors to help face and solve the problems that affect Catalonia, but also Europe and the world. We care and want to help refocus, reinvent the European project, which sometimes goes beyond its founding values, as has happened in the management of the refugee drama, and to do so, too, this new European project, more of the people and nations and not so much of the states. We care what paper we want and we have to play in the Mediterranean, and especially in those countries with which we share history, language and culture. We care about everything, because we don't just want to make our self-determination process known and increase international recognition and support to our cause, but those values that we defend for Catalonia – justice, democracy, self-determination, solidarity, cooperation, diversity, sustainability, poverty, dialogue – we want to export them to Europe and the world. As the Romeva Councilman said, if we get stuck in our little one, we'll be wrong, and so much. For all this, we give support to the motion presented for the CUP - Constituent Creed. We have been purposed in the better part of this motion by sending a follow-up of statements which, together with the contributions of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is possible, will allow a very important majority of this Parliament today to approve this motion. And this I want to thank - I am to Congressman Carles Riera, who from the first moment has shown a clear willingness to reach an agreement, as we have finally managed; it was a pleasure, to negotiate with you. And this same will I want to thank - there is also Congressman Joan Josep Nuet, of the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, who has allowed, with his contributions and also with some resignation, that today the whole young lady opens up, in all her points. So many thanks to both of you. And, take back the experience of nothing started yesterday for my partner Senserrich, I can't finish if it's not wishing them a very good Nadal with the people you think, and naturally, and above all, also a happy reference to 2017. Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.182.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sendra. Next, to fix his position, has the word Ms. Susana Beltrán, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.183.0	Thank you very much, President. Although we have neither international politics nor the Catalan Republic, we do want to get into the debate on ideas. Listening to Deputy Riera – he has said it now, he is in his motion – we believe that the three most fundamental elements on which this motion revolves are about the collective rights of peoples, the new Europe of peoples and nations, and support the rights of self-determination of peoples and, of course, also of Catalonia. This political position is legitimate, of course, it is very respectable, of course it is, but it is neither our model nor our priorities. We believe that the current challenges in this new global governance must not only be met from the viewpoint of nations and peoples, but for us too there are two priority actors: on the one hand, integration organisations, such as the European Union, on the other hand, and, on the other hand, to increase and strengthen the presence of the individual, the citizen, the direct access of the citizen to the European and international institutions. In the face of the Europe of the peoples you defend, we defend the Europe of the citizens. A Europe in which..., or a European Union in which we would like to strengthen the powers of the European Parliament, where the citizens of the European Union are represented, to counterbalance the powers of the states and thus promote a European Union that is fairer and more supportive than it is now. And in the face of the nations of the world, we demand the elaboration of a statute of international citizenship. Because, in fact, we could live in a classic and traditional nation state like the one you intend to build for Catalonia, and not have our individual rights and freedoms protected. Without going further, last week young people from Societat Civil Catalana wanted to meet to talk about their discrepancy with the separatist process at the Autonomous University of Catalonia and were intimidated and insulted by groups called "antifascists", so they were probably questioning rights that are fundamental to people, such as the right of association and assembly, such as freedom of expression or freedom of conscience or thought. We believe that citizens need direct European and international access, without intermediaries, to protect our individual rights when the nearest institutions are unable to protect those rights. And, moreover, to move forward, as I said before, in that status of international citizenship. Do you imagine that any person in the world or any citizen has the right to demand peace regardless of the country, the nation, the people, the tribe where he was born or where he is living at that time? These are issues that we are interested in. We will therefore vote against this motion, not only because it is not our model or our priorities, but also because we believe that our priorities are better suited to what is called the human family or our common humanity, following the expressions used by António Guterres in his investiture speech as the new Secretary-General of the United Nations a few days ago. And I also take the opportunity to say that tomorrow Ciutadans will not go to the repeated 9-N summit, because it is neither our model nor our priority. Happy birthday to everyone. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.184.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Beltran. Next, the words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.185.0	Thank you, President; counselor, deputies, deputies... In this last plenary of the year, the different groups of the democratic opposition have tabled motions on gender-based violence – Socialists –, on health – Catalonia Yes, it is Pot –, on housing – Citizens –, on investment in roads – the People's Party – all of them motions that propose real solutions to people's real problems. However, the distinguished Members of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP are presenting us today with a motion with points, such as number 9, where the Government is urged, literally, "to build the Catalan countries for the construction of a new world order. That's ambition, yes sir. [[Rialles.]] Or, as it is said today, "ambition, not, the following, that would be identity and ideological alienation. While the parties of the democratic opposition ask to prioritize spending on social issues and in the construction of infrastructures to improve the quality of life of Catalans, the gentlemen of the UPC settle in the palace policy and ask to enhance the external action of the Generalitat: higher offices and more trips. It seems to the members of the CUP that the Generalitat has kept more than a thousand barracks in Catalan schools and that hospital emergencies are collapsing, while spending on independent foreign action is doubling year after year. It seems to them little and they ask for higher offices of the Generalitat abroad, of which no one knows what they do but who charge more than a minister. As our spokesman said on Tuesday: "Radical them yes, fools do not. Abertzales at night, high charges for the day. They ask in paragraph 5 of their motion to increase international support for the process. Look, they can multiply it, they can multiply it by the number they want, because any number multiplied by zero is zero. How will they have serious support if they promote the breaking of a democracy and disobedience? It is no longer that the European Commission does not recognise the false Permanent Representative in Brussels, nor that no one receives the President of the Generalitat when he goes to the Community capital, that, if Europe looks at us, he will see this. [[the orator shows a photograph to the camera]] : you will see the partners of the government burning European Union flags, you will see the partners of the government burning flags of democracies. The truth is that you do not cheat: in your electoral programme you promise to get us out of the European Union, the problem is that Convergence has been entangled. They demand to enhance the current external action. It seems to them that the Councillor meets with few extreme right-wing politicians, with those who would throw the Catalans out of their countries. It is true that the extremes are touched: Eurosceptics and ultranationalists unite against democracy and individual freedoms. Their ideas are understood and shared by the ideological extremes, but, of course, they leave a big hole in the middle: they leave most Catalans unprotected, to whom from the centre left to the centre right we are not against the law, that is, democracy, or the European Union. Today you ask to build the Catalan countries to build a new world order based on their ideology. Can you tell me a country of the world, only one, where the CUP programme is applied, workers live better? In yesterday's debate, a representative of the CUP said that there is no creating wealth, we must distribute the, and presumption of his former deputy, who advised the Chavista regime of Venezuela. Do you know what happens in those countries where the government punishes those who create wealth and buy wills with subsidies? That comes the day that there's no money to pay the pensions. Ask the thousands of Venezuelans – the thousands of Venezuelans – who have fled their country, from the "Paradise of the CUP", and who have been in Catalonia without paying their pension for more than a year. [[Some applause.]] Look, go burn pictures of Maduro in Caracas; if they're so brave, go to Caracas to burn pictures of Maduro, see what happens to them. Do you know what's most worrying about everything? The most worrying thing is not that the UPC wants to build the Catalan countries to be the "irradiating nucleus of world Bolivarianism, the most worrying thing is that the Government of the Generalitat depends on you, that it would thank you with amendments by Junts for Yes that they simply mattize these delusions, and that you have put the future of the Catalans in the hands of a party that is not only against the European Union, against entrepreneurs, against workers, against pensioners, against families, but also against common sense. We shall vote not on all points of the motion; that is, in a Christmas spirit. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.186.0	Next, has the word Mr Carles Riera, to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.187.0	Thank you, President. Well, the intervention of the deputy of the PP helps to clarify – this is something that we can thank – in content, in all and in form. Indeed, you represent the values and principles of this world order, which we absolutely want to overcome. They are convinced that this is not the intention. [[Greetings.]] Does Aznar's picture ring, Bush, Berlusconi, Tony Blair? Does that picture sound familiar to you? Does it sound like this photograph is the cause and origin of the global disaster that we are currently living in? Do you recognize him? Is it co-responsible? So I began to reflect on the co-responsibility of your speech in the global disaster that we are living today. This movement wants, among other things, to pass screen and create a new international scene where effectively the right collectius, solidarity, pau, democracy and global justice are possible. Give us the full conviction. Well, actually I have to say, as it can't be in any other way, what Mr Nuet and Mr Sendra have already said: it has been a very positive, very constructive and very satisfying job. I thank them for the political effort they have made so that we can adopt this motion of international policy with a large majority, which effectively strengthens foreign action, but I also believe that it is a framework that extricates our foreign policy so that these principles and objectives that you have set are possible, in which we fully agree, and allow us to defend, inside and outside, all the peoples of the world, solidly, with all the peoples of the world, the sovereign powers of democracy, food sovereignty, economic sovereignty, and that, from sovereignty and freedom, all the peoples can build together and in democracy truly this new world order in which our country, our birth, the Catalan countries, can play an exemplary role. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.188.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Mr. Riera, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.189.0	Thank you, President. Yes, before we proceed to the vote, we have found that there is a formal omission in the drafting of the text, since, like such a young man, it would have to be started with the words "instigating the Government to, which does not appear. Therefore, we ask for an incorporation in voice before the vote simply with this initial addition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.190.0	All right, Mr. Riera. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the motion. Since no separate votes have been requested, we shall vote jointly on the motion. The vote begins. The motion on the international policy of the Catalan Republic was adopted by 81 votes to 52, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the reversal of the reels]] [[302-00096/11]] The twenty-three point of the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the reversal of the reels, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose it, has the word Mr. Alberto Villagrasa. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Mr. Villagrasa, when you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.191.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, well, after the new world order and Star Trek, let's talk about a motion that deals with the real problems of Catalans. Let's talk about trying to improve some works, connecting infrastructure in Catalonia, with a final and clear goal, which is to try to improve road safety on our roads. It was said on the day of the inquiry: one part of the safety depends therefore on the conditions of the vehicle; another, on the responsibility of the driver, but a large part depends on the state of the highways, on the roads, and that is indeed the responsibility of the Administration. In this motion we have called for improvements to the Government of the Generalitat, but also to the Government of the State and to the deputies, because all administrations have responsibility in this matter. We started with the C-55. Here with Junts pel Yes, we haven't reached an agreement. For us it is important to unfold the C-55 and, during the period of works, that the C-16 is free for C-55 users. It is a road with a very high accident rate, possibly the most problematic in Catalonia, and for us – we disagree with the solution that arises – it is indispensable to unfold. And we understand that it is not an immediate or short-term solution, on the contrary; but if we want an almost definitive solution, this would be the one that arises. We have also mentioned that we believe it is important for Members to know in the first quarter of 2017 what investments are going to be made on roads, but especially those aimed at road safety. We have also agreed to study and define improvements to the C-1415a, which is one of the most dangerous roads currently in Catalonia. In the motion we have also called for the Generalitat and the Government of Spain to agree to seek solutions with the N-340. It is true that the ownership is of the State; the management, of the Generalitat, and it is obliged that the two administrations agree to find a solution, beginning by taking out the vehicles of great tonnage of the 340, as announced in his day the councillor of Interior and that has not yet been done. We have accepted by Junts pel Yes, the State is required to complete the works of the B-40 orbital highway, between Abrera and Terrassa. And we have accepted it basically because the State's commitment is there, because these works have begun, and therefore we are not going to vote against, or we are not going to accept an amendment with works that the State is already doing. But above all we have emphasized to ask the deputy of..., all the deputies, but especially the deputy of Barcelona, which has part of the most dangerous roads and with a higher rate of disaster in Catalonia, to let us know, between 2017 and 2018, what improvements they will make in their ways. When we talk about road safety and road safety, the Barcelona Diputación always, in this matter, goes beyond points. And I recognize – because I have met them personally – that there are great professionals and technicians in the parliament in this area – great professionals – therefore, it is not a technical issue, but it is a matter of political will. In short – and I am finishing – what we are asking in this motion is for all administrations to assume their responsibility, and for all to act and carry out the necessary actions to try to improve the safety of our roads. I would like to thank Mr David Bonvehí for the negotiation and the ease of trying to reach agreements. Mrs Hortènsia Grau, who, because of problems outside her, was unable to make any amendments, but I appreciate them positively; I read them, and we could certainly have reached some agreement, and I thank her for the comment. And also to Javier Rivas, who has shown us his support in this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.192.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. Then, to defend the papers presented, has the words of Mr David Bonvehí, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.193.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. To position the Group of Junts for the Yes in this motion presented for the Popular Party. So I would also like to thank you: the thanks for the parliamentary debate that we have had outside the House, talking about the reelings. And I'm also taking the words from Hortênsia, who couldn't present the papers, but we've also exchanged ideas. This guy's a little generic. It touches on a number of issues, but in any case, point 1, which I believe is the substance of this young man, speaks to us about the situation of the C-55 and the C-16 – those who live in the Bages, so we are very familiar. This is a subject, too, which has been dealt with on many occasions in this Parliament of Catalonia, in the committees. And the truth is that, in these last years, thanks to the efforts of the Government of the Generality, but also from the local institutions, starting with the joint meetings of the region of Bages, and also of the Lower Llobregat, and also of the Bergedade and Solsones, and their local councils, and together with the Central Catalonia Road Consortium, all of these institutions have come to terms and have gone into pressure, as the Members of this Parliament, to improve their leftfulness and to improve their living conditions in order to be able to travel through our careers. In point 1, however, despite this year of continuing to debate how we improve left-wingness and how we avoid more accidents, we can't support it, because it seems to us, this point 1, which is inconcrete and has a point of letter to the King that for now, even though they are about to arrive, can't be taken over. And, basically, so, because you're going to say that we're asking for the unfolding on the road to Abrera until the end of the C-55, and that, apart from the fact that it's economically intractable, we would like to highlight the different actions that we've been doing to already unfold, from little to little, or to improve the situation of this C-55 in these last few years. And, for example, as an example, they would like to remember that the round of Manresa, which forms part of this unfolding, has already been done, finished work, with 2,6_million euros. Road safety has improved in C-55 and C-58 with a work executed of 3,7_million euros in Castellbell; 2,5_million euros more between Viladecavalls and Vacarisses – this is more relevant to C-58 – between Vacarisses and Castellbell, there also began the C-55, 3,2_million euros. All these works have already been finished. Senyalization of this C-55 with 600,000_euros, also finished work. A better connection is being proposed between the C-55 and the C-16, which is to be..., which is the motorway, with a forecast of works that will be made at an average cost of 2,33_million euros. Also, better in the external streets of Manresa to be able to connect better to the motorway, of 2_million euros. And so, in this context of the C-55, there is also a roundabout in Bufalvent, of EUR 600,000. There has also been a roundabout at Sant Fruitos de Bages; another one that is also about to end. A better access has been made to Castellgali and a project is being drafted to better access the Renfe to Manresa, and different smaller works to Monistrol de Montserrat, on the Olesa tram to Abrera and to the wish of Colbató. All this makes it impossible for us to give support. And we also see that the highway in this sense, so it has to have more use on everyone's part. In this sense, in order to decongest the C-55, on the motorway the Government of the Generality has encouraged, in addition, improvements, some that have already entered into force and the others that have entered into force a few days ago, but in any case what many people believe of Manresa, Bages and Central Catalonia is that, having a motorway that was empty on the side of the C-55, there is no logical way to make a road or a road on the side when there is one that was empty and it is much better. And, therefore, on the basis of these criteria, we would be pleased, therefore, to have the C-16 released and all of us to go there. The other points. The second point, totally in agreement with the work of the congress and we will give it support; the third point, the same; the fourth point, the same. And at five, we will also give support, and at six we have presented a message that the representative who will give support has already told us. For all this I want to thank you for the initiative, for having introduced me and for having this debate here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.194.0	Thank you, Mr. Bonvehi. Next, the words of Mr. Javier Rivas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.195.0	Good afternoon, Madam President. They're playing roads today. We have talked here about ports, airports, trains, bicycles; we have talked about many things, but about reels or cars, which are those that travel on the roads, or about people, which is the important thing, which drive those cars, we had not yet talked about. That's why I think this PP motion, although it's a little generic, a little ambiguous, so, well, it's good that it came here and it's good that we can discuss it, and it would be good that, above all, we could approve it, right? I'm from Viella, most people know it. It's been 60 miles since the legislature started. I'm not an expert on roads, but I am becoming an expert on road traffic. And this motion is not new; in fact, it was already approved in the last legislature, the 16th of IV : it was not the same, but it was very, very, very similar. And come back. If you come back, you mean that the government has some unfinished business, don't you? To document it, I've been reading hemerotheque. There is a very broad hemerotheque of non-compliances, of some really sad, really catastrophic readings; even – looking, looking, because Google knows everything – I have read up to the concession of Autema, which is one of the companies that, well, medra in this motion, is the concessional on highways. And when I read the concession, I have to say that I've run into known names, right? , of natural and legal persons who have written the worst music in Palau. I mean, I think it's raining a little bit on wet, and we have to be serious and talk a little bit humbly about all these things. In point 3 we are asked to draw up a list of needs, prioritization. Yeah, we totally agree. In fact, in the Territorial Commission from our group, from Citizens, we have already presented – more extensive, more ambitious than this, not only for roads, but for roads and for all other infrastructure – that a plan be made, that a timetable be made. Why? Because at a time of limited resources, which are finite, and of almost infinite demands, it becomes essential to prioritise, with arguments, with reasonings, not with political interests or electoral interests, or by the pressure of a particular people, but it has to be on a technical and justice criterion, doesn't it? In the committee we lost him: everyone voted against us. I hope that here, at least, even if it is only for the road sector, we will vote in favour. We have to be aware, on roads and in any kind of infrastructure, that, if we approve a roundabout for Villarriba, perhaps that implies not being able to do it in Villabajo, and we will have to explain to those of Villabajo why we have not done it, right? And the criterion, I repeat – is what we always maintain from our group – has to be a professional criterion, a criterion of seriousness, responsibility and justice. Point 4 is on the C-55 road. This road is ours, 100_per_cent of ours; « ours is not in the sense of inventory of collector, but ours is the responsibility of this road. And although David Bonvehí explained the kindnesses, the investment that had been made on this road, the reality, simplifying the unfortunately much, is that this road has been dead 79 in ten years, right? Yes, it is true that investments have been made: the last – good, or perhaps the most beneficial one that was made in terms of sinisterity – was to separate the two senses of the road with some New Jersey. With that it has certainly prevented the frontal shocks, but, well, that road is a rattanera and that road is saturated, it is a road thirty years ago, two directions, with twenty-five thousand cars daily, when those who understand that from eleven thousand the road would deserve to unfold. A little out of what I said at the previous point, the destination, the investment of resources has to be based on value parameters I would almost dare to say that not politicians, but technical, professional, and the volume of traffic that this road has indicates that yes, that this road actually has to be doubled. And we will therefore vote in favour. Another point speaks of the C-16 motorway, which is of Autema, which is a little the alternative that is given not to have to unfold the other road. Actually, this is a practically empty highway, isn't it? This is a concession of the time of Jordi Pujol, which improved it, still, for the concessionaire in the time of the tripartite. It is a very advantageous concession for the company, very Leonine for the citizens: it is the most expensive motorway in all of Spain, but it also has as a ground clause, that is, if there is no minimum number of users... A ground clause that Europe for home mortgages has taken away from us, logically, because it said it was unfair. The Generalitat has to pay this floor clause and we have been paying about 36_million_euros per year, and we have accumulated 250_million_euros. Therefore, this company will never break, it is a win-win business, it is a business not of venture and risk, it is a business without risk and very venture. And all this, for our blush, is a hundred_per_cent made in« Cat...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.196.0	Mr. Rivas, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.197.0	Yeah. Agatha Christie said that old sins have a long shadow, and with this shadow we have to work all, with Councilman Rull as well, and we have to look for solutions to a problem that is really big, right? I'm running out of time. Not much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.198.0	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.199.0	I'm done. Just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.200.0	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.201.0	We're on Christmas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.202.0	...it's not that it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.203.0	...to wish everyone a happy holiday.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.204.0	He knows hard, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.205.0	And if you have to travel through the asphalt of our land, do it very carefully. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.206.0	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Next, the words of Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.207.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Members, Members, listening to Deputy David Bonvehí, who must express the Government's position, I believe that the conclusion is swift: neither C-55 unfolding nor C-16 gratuity. I think these are the two great conclusions of this debate or of this young man. The claim of the unfolding of the C-55 between Manresa up to the Bogunyà tunnel, in the municipal term of Castellbell and the Vilar, is a very powerful territorial claim of the County Council of Bages, of the majority of joints, which have approved motions in this sense, to make this unfolding between these two points that I gave them. Even so, there is a parliamentary resolution by the House of this Parliament that mandates the government to do this. Since the year 2010 we have a permanently approved environmental impact study. We also have the project executed, approved by the department, between Manresa and up to Castellbell and the Village. Presuppositionary reasons are always argued not to address this better road, a better of all necessary. The transit means tell us that the thirty-thousand vehicles a day, is a very high density of traffic that has caused – you know – frontal shocks, serious accidents. And it's true that before these accidents and the indignation that this was causing between the users and the citizens, the department, therefore, addresses some better works, which are here: there have been a series of actions on the tram that we are dealing with, some New Jersey have been set up in the middle of the C-55. It's true, the part of hard accident in this way has been avoided. Now, this doesn't rule out that it's producing leuis accidents, some also hard ones, that what they do is cause many retentions in this way. We've avoided a part of the accident, but what we're causing is a lot of retention. And, besides, with the fact of posing in New Jersey, what it does is that it is not possible to look for alternatives that before users of this way, so they can find, and it has also generated and is generating, let me just say, outrage among users for the retentions that are produced not only in this way – we could talk about others, huh? - Very often. So... even emergency services or police services sometimes have difficulty getting to the place. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Now don't tell me you don't, counselor, because... I'm talking to the mayors of Bages, who will tell you that, huh? And, therefore, it is also causing problems. I already know that recovering the concession, which is until the year 2036– is that we're not talking about tomorrow, we're talking about the year 2036– it's because for the Administration, but they'll have to address some kind of better type of the C-55 so we can't go on. And, therefore, we, on the way in, will give support to this young man, to the hope that someday the councillor or the councillor will explain to us how they want to address this issue of the best of the C-55. And, finally, because I am running out of time, we will support all points, but I would like to focus on these forty seconds that remain, to fix the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group respect one of the other questions that the motion deals with, which is the B-40, the round of the Vallès, on the tram between Abrera and Terrassa. The works are beginning, and I think it is urgent that the Ministry of Development recovers or restarts the works as soon as possible better and ends this tram between Abrera and Terrassa. And I would, after all, add to it – I know this can cause some discomfort – that these works continue to Sabadell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.208.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. Next, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.209.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs, MPs; therefore, a note that could not enter the items that we had prepared, because I believe that, for example, they could have solved what Mr Terrades explained. Because, precisely, the thought that we did in point 1, over the unfolding... we are opposed to the complete unfolding, because we understand that there is another way, that it is the C-16, as it was said, and that to do the trinxary unfolding. But in change we are talking about a very concrete unfolding, a trosset, which is what all the mayors of the territory want, between Manresa and Castellbell and the Vilar, and between the kilometre point 15 plus 700 and the kilometre point 30 plus 800. Moreover, there is a favorable impact, said Mr Terrades, and this is the only unfolding. Therefore, as we have not been able to enter this issue, we have not been able to discuss it, that I am sure that at this point we would have all agreed, as we did in the past legislature with a young man whom we all approved. For that matter, a pity. We like the PP to bring this up again, but sometimes, when they talk about mobility, they talk only about reelers and they forget that the deficiencies in central Catalonia, the Vallès, the Bergedà, the Moianès, the Solsonès also have a hard shortage of railway infrastructure, and that is also their responsibility. In this sense, for example, we also made a statement in which we said: "Listen, we need to improve the railway mobility of the central regions. And here's the whole issue of immediate investments that infrastructure needs in R4, as well as increasing frequencies, and that would already be for the Catalan government. And on the subject of liberation, let us see, at these moments we understand that there is a whole system of bonuses and that, moreover, there is more to be implemented and that there is a compromise with the whole territory, which is why it is being implemented, to evaluate it in 2017. But we would also like to have a clear calendar of total liberation, which does not mean gratuity, because we..., to see here mobility in road transport, with fossil fuels, cannot be free, and therefore we must look at how we have solved it. So that we solve it if it's with a Eurovignette or with what kind of tax, we'll have to look at it, but clearly, here too, to do this, we'll have to build the two links: the Viladordis and the Pont de Vilomara, because, if not, it also creates problems. And also, one of our reviews, which we see that they finally accepted, also, from Junts for the Yes, was to claim from the Government of the State the finalization of the B-40 between Viladecavalls and Abrera, because, moreover, it allows the connection between the C-16 and the A-2. Therefore, we had various points that, well, I think, could have improved the text, that – it's now that I'm finished listening, president – I might be the first, if all the groups agree, like you don't fix the terms, just the will we make this unfolding, so – if all the groups agree – we could put it to the vote. I'll leave it here, won't I? Okay. So, the other point in dealing with the young man. On the theme of 340 i l'AP-7. Here we are, to see, voting there... We do not like the wording; what happens is that we vote for it because it is an adventure, a little adventure, that of carrying the heavy traffic... but, of course, we understand that the 340 situation for the people of the Lands of the Jews, or for the people of the north, that there are the mayors of the Pact of Berà, is an entrepreneurial situation, that is the one that has also been most delayed. The people of the territory, the people of the Lands of the South Ebre, yes or yes or on this highway of toll, also, that has just ended, or on a road, also, with an index of trembling perilsity and that, moreover, with the measures that have been put in place for the security, the people are black, because, clearly, the continuous line, the roundabouts... Clearly, if we stop the heavy traffic, as was done on his day in the National II to Girona, if we stop the whole transit – not the heavier, all the road– of trucks, we can, perhaps, re-establish what we do with these measures that have been made of the 340, especially in the section of the Hospital of the House of Infaint. And in this sense we also presented papers that could not be incorporated. For all this, we, a little bit depending on all these points that I have said, what we'll do is we can't give support to the whole 1st point, because we don't want a duplication, because here we talked about the dealership, of Autema, of the C-16, but they didn't say anything. You think something, huh? : this highway cost EUR 126_million and we will end up paying EUR 4,035_million. Therefore, it is necessary to make a calendar, we must see how we resolve this question, which, in fact, we do not say that I do not say the Declaration of the Council of Mayors of the Bages, "We are not enough, that tomorrow it will be a year that has been signed. I mean, there's a territorial consensus here, and I think we should try to be bosses, appreciating the best they've ever done, to keep moving forward in these better ways, and already have this clear solution for the highway, for the high-speed road.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.210.0	Mrs. Grau, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.211.0	It's here. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.212.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.213.0	Well, I've put it into consideration... I don't know how to do it, technically, but I've put it into consideration at this point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.214.0	You can make a statement in your voice to vote, if everyone agrees.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.215.0	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.216.0	Next, the words of Mr Sergi Saladié, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.217.0	All right, thank you, President. We will vote against this young man's totality; I'm telling you now, so let's be cool about this. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, Catalonia needs the most and the best rail network and the least lanes. What we need is better management of the existing road network and no new motorways or motorways, as they plant in some points of this young man. We understand that it is a motion that is totally uncontextualized by proper territorial planning, that is where all these proposals should be inserted, in any case; but it is also uncontextualized by the same planning of the mobility infrastructure. You come here, take three or four examples, make a short and sticky, pose it to the batter and give it this result, based on infrastructures that depend on the Government of Catalonia, that some of them have their shortcomings and will be able to correct them, and we understand that in some, including, by default, the Government is already doing so, but we could say that they somehow, cynically, see most of the irresponsibilitys and irresponsibilitys that their Government – Spanish – has made during these years in the field of mobility infrastructures. You've often been god, the CUP, that we're irresponsible and that we want to destroy everything. And, look, as we say to my people, you guys are real derailers. Some examples – just a few, eh? We would have much more of this detractiveness than you would have: highways that go parallel to motorways; construction of eleven roundabouts on a thirty-five-kilometre tram to the Ebre Lands; motorways– the AP-7 and the AP-2– that go empty, that are hyper-concessions with friends, while accidents and deaths increase to the N-340 lanes to the Ebre and Senia Lands, and to 240 to the Lleida Lands, between Montblanc and the same Lleida city; a railway network in a state of worst and unfortunate maintenance, with constant incidents, windings and damaged stations. And now his solution to all this is to come here and want to continue to impose a model of public work on the years of the real estate and infrastructure cylinders. It is to say, to do public work without any economic or social feeling, nor respect the environment, and to convert all this into a model of business where they always earn the same and always lose the jointness of the citizenry, a model like the rescue of the famous 5,500_million euros that his Spanish government wants to pay for the Madrid radials at the time of rescue. Therefore, they will not have our vote to continue with this obscurantism, with this discontrol, with this impunity and the rotating doors that have always accompanied this public work. As I said, you are indeed irresponsible, an authentic peril for public arches. But, look, let all this irresponsibility that's been going on for all these years; we already have enough, and we will do it ourselves, to build the infrastructure that comes from the new Catalan Republic, and that the CUP will, in any case, defend a mobility model based on the reduction of forced mobility, which must be the basis of all infrastructure planning, a powerful rail network, a powerful public transport and a public management of all this transport network. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.218.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Saladié. Next, the words of Mr. Alberto Villagrasa, to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.219.0	Thank you, President. First, thank you for the tone of Mr Bonvehí's interventions, Mrs Hortènsia Grau, Javier Rivas, Jordi Terrades and also Mr Saladié's contributions. Well, in voice, I wouldn't accept the amendment now, would I? But I do thank you for the intervention. About the C-55, man, what you can't do is try to make the C-16 a success at the cost of the C-55. [[The speaker shows the camera a full copy of news from a diary.]] That's an accident a day ago, car in counter-direction. If it had been in the New Jersey stretch, it would have been a real catastrophe. So, look, you can't try to make the success of the C-16 go to the cost of the C-55. And your bonus policy is not yielding any results. You are testing more results, more bonuses, trying to lift barriers when there is a serious accident, but in the end the C-16 is being a management failure. Mr Saladié, since the 'new world order I am convinced that they are going to create a network of very powerful infrastructures, which the world is looking at us: everyone is waiting for their network of infrastructures. His example will be Venezuela, Cuba, I don't know exactly which one, but what is his mobility model? They want few cars, but they do not want oil; if there is no oil, they will be electric cars; they want electric cars, but they do not want nuclear energy. What kind of cars do you want? With dynamos? Get the Picapiedra's cars back? What is your mobility policy, Mr Saladié? Really, walk a little with your feet on the ground, get off your fantasy, off your fictional stage of independence. And with all the affection, and following the Christmas spirit of my companion Juan Milián, I wish you all a Merry Christmas; let the Kings bring you many things, even to the Republicans, and to you, a little bit of coal, who earn it day by day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.220.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. We're calling it a vote. Mrs. Hortênsia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.221.0	One lightening, thirty-seconds. President, I will not read it, obviously, because the group proposing does not accept it, but I just want to remind you that on 16 April 2015, in this Chamber, in addition, presented by the Member of Parliament Dolors Montserrat, of the People's Party, was approved of a motion in which the first point gave the same point that I wanted to put to the vote today: the kilometre points where the unfolding was to take place. Just because I have it present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.222.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Vote separate from point number 1, all point 1. [[Long break.]] A separate vote was requested from point number 1, with all parties. So let's proceed, first, to vote on number 1 and then the rest of the motion, okay? So, the vote begins. Point number one. Point 1_has been rejected by 52 votes in favour, 79 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on the reversal of the ballot papers was approved by 124 votes to 10 with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Proposal for a tax law on non-productive legal persons (debate of totality)]] [[202-00044/11]] The twenty-four point of the order of the day is: debate on the totality of the proposed tax law on non-productive acts of legal persons. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules, the two groups that submitted the proposal together will submit this proposal. In the first place, has the word the Lord Benet Salellas, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Quiet, please, because you can start the congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.223.0	Thank you, President. We say in the past general policy debate that you have more to pay for, and that this basic principle of any society that you want to consider fair is not fully in force today in Catalonia. We know, we've said it many times, and we'll keep saying it, so, because there hasn't been much progress in direct taxes, but also, and above all without oblivion, because there's too much fraud and tax evasion thanks to the tax engineering of those who can put up mediums and brains to look for formulas to pay less. The truth is that from our visit, in the current tax model, if we compare the nature of the IRPF, the corporate tax and the assets tax, it turns out that the assets in the hands of commercial companies are found to be without a tax tax at the same level as the assets of physical persons, eh? – « assets included as wealth accumulation. Because those that we tax as physical persons we tax through IRPF our returns; societies tax their profits for the tax of societies; physical persons we re-tax..., those that they obviously do, that they have a lot of assets, they tax for the tax of assets, but, on the other hand, those societies that have a lot of assets do not just tax. It's true that in some way they indirectly tax on companies, but companies are focused on winning businesses and not on having or accumulating them. And in fact, that's why companies' assets are more affected by accounting balances, a formula that generates a vel that in tax terms stores and spreads a good share of the company's assets. It must be because of this that the great fortunes of this country, the great family fortunes are not in any way in the name of these physical persons, but are precisely in the name of societies that have managed to weave an extensive teranyina of small SL, the majority, where they have gone to place a little of heritage here, a little of heritage there, and, ultimately, have resulted in the taxation of affections in a very different way from how to affect small and medium renders, which are practically always centered on work. We know that a good tax administration with enough resources and political will, which we do not have today, could bring down all these castles of cards, and we will have to work because the day we have the Catalan Republic, so our tax administration is devoting resources and political will to this, but while we understand that we need to increase the entrances so that we can have more public resources to make policies to fight inequality, at a time of crisis, despite the consequences of economic crisis, we propose this tax on the concentration of wealth and great fortunes in order to redistribute these resources. We could imagine this tax... or we liked to imagine this tax as the tax on the richness in Norway. Norway, for example, is an interesting state, which we like to mention more because it is Europe and it is not the European Union, is it not? , also a little to break those ideas that seem that there are no advanced countries outside the European Union. Or we could imagine a tax similar to the tax that Bildu implanted in Guipúscoa while he held the government foral; certainly, a tax that after the GNP-PSOE-PSE pact dissected and deactivated in its most interesting aspects. But it is a possibility that he would easily place us in that land in which the Constitutional Court and the Unionist forces of this Parliament are so easily moved, in which, as always, therefore, this class court would end up protecting, we are clear, these great fortunes. Therefore, we think that we need to work precisely in the line of dealing with tax areas that we can't say at any time as they enter competition, at least while we find ourselves in the situation where we find ourselves. This is why we have proposed to build a new tax, which focuses on these assets that have been placed in companies precisely to escape the property tax and income tax. And we think, therefore, that this imposition..., we have identified those elements that objectively, when we hear it, can be luxury benefits or exteriorization of this concentration of wealth through luxury buildings, large-cylinder vehicles, through precisely these ocean craft and aircraft – we should certainly advance, too, in certain financial products that are only at the bottom of those that have this concentration of wealth – but we think that it is a good starting point. You're complex, huh? We are aware that it is not easy, but we think that this tax that we present today is the first stone in this direction, in a tax that, in our view, needs to look for six different objectives. In the first place, it must fight against the concentration of wealth in few hands. We think that the concentration of wealth in a few hands is not something socially healthy. And, therefore, we think that this tax can help the redistributive function. Secondly, it will have a horizontal equity function in the system; it is to say, it does not precisely record the question of everything that is generated again, of income, but what it seeks, precisely, is to record the accumulation, the concentration of wealth and its transmission, which, as we know, and here you know all the statistics, grew back a year. Thirdly, we want you to give vertical fairness to the tax system, because we are clear, and so the data show, that in our system, as it is richer, there is less contribution to the returns of work and more contribution to the returns of capital and the most valuable. And, therefore, how that, in change, when we look down on what has all been done above all, are made of the work that they exude, that they do not generate there, because the working classes and the majority of the popular classes exhause the yields that they gain, precisely, to consume, and, therefore, in some way contribute much, much, with the indirect taxes that engrave the consumption, therefore, precisely in order to give this vertical equity to the tax system we need to tax the capital and the yields that come from the most valuable ones, that are in the last part of our system. Fourthly, in order to collect more money, it is also a function that at a time of inequality and social crisis like the present, therefore, it is necessary, especially in concepts that are under-recorded. In five places, to achieve a hundred – hundreds or control – that we have to use to make a democratic control of wealth, and that also serves us to deepen in the fight against fraud and tax evasion. And, in this place, therefore, an imposition that by our hearing encourages the use of this rich product, that what it does is to fight against the goods that have speculative purpose and that somehow we seek to punish the white hands, is to say, those that possess rich but do not give the social function that even the Constitution of the bunker of 78 up to recognize that it has to have the property. Well, this is a tributary look that we like, in which we feel comfortable, it's a good starting point. I would like, in this sense, in this sort of out of this tax, therefore, to thank Marta Espasa, Director General of Tributes, for the good predisposition the general direction has had to break the fence, to seek, let us say, this empty tax space, and to gather this vision that we have laid upon the table. And I'm also saying that it's just an initial moment, and in this sense, as Congresswoman Angels Martínez said, we will certainly have to make a lot of changes to this tax. She was pointing out that precisely because we were inspired by Guipuscoa's tax, we did not directly transfer everything that is the square, did we not? , of tax type, and, therefore, perhaps a translated time, like that the function and the one that records are in a few different points, there are some types that have remained excessively low. Well, we're just starting to work on it today. Let's talk, let's talk, but above all, let's start redistributing, because for us it's the function that this tax has to have, because if inequality isn't, it's unbearable – it's unbearable. And we will come back here another time to make a ple of poor, and to quote all those statistics that are repeated to every ple of poor. We do not want to repeat more fills of poverty, what we want is to begin to put thread in the needle. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.224.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. Next, has the word Ms.Carmina Castellví, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.225.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, counselor, counselor, good afternoon to everyone. He sounds to them: "I put it in the name of the company and so I save money from taxes? So, that's what it's all about when the Juntes groups for the Yes and the CUP present this proposal, to fight against the picarescence that allows some to avoid paying taxes. All physical persons are subject to the payment of taxes that are close to them, but only by taking advantage of the shortcomings of the system, can they not pay the VAT of the car that they use for private purposes or that they do not compute them for the property tax a house with use of second residence, an iot or an aircraft. The system used is very well known and complicated people: it is about not buying these non-productive acts in the name of the natural person who will enjoy them, but putting them in the name of legal persons, normally companies, controlled by the person who will use them. And that no one is spreading, it's not that commercial cars are under this tax, but that the payoff of companies acquiring vehicles of power equal to or greater than two hundred horsepowers. The vans won't pay, the power and luxury personal use vehicle will. And the same happens with immobile goods. If these are of a product nature, they do not constitute the taxable fact, for which neither the place where the hardware is located nor the industrial ship where the stresses that come into this hardware are made will be the object of the tax. Not even small boats, less than eight metres in length, but the luxury craft – on which we are all thinking – and the aircraft, provided that they are not affected by productive activities. We are left with the essence: it is a matter of taxing non-productious acts of private use – and remarcating this from the 'private use' – that individuals who control a legal person and want to profit from the fevers of the Spanish tax system transfer to the assets of their societies, with a considerable tax estudiator, and who have no sense of justification, neither political nor ethical. Because people understand us without the need to appeal to tax specialists: with the promulgation of this law, they will pay taxes for the estate of sumptuous and luxury goods people who before can afford to buy them in the name of their societies and, above all, to depreciate their cost in the declaration of VAT and corporation tax, rather than the effects of the tax on their assets. It is, therefore, a good law, a good step in the right direction that pays more who has more. The structure of the tax is well measured so that it does not produce undesirable and undesirable effects. Thus, Article 3 makes it clear that the taxpayers of the tax system will be companies with no profit, since it establishes three very clear exemptions: public administrations and public law bodies and entities; diplomatic representations, consular offices and international bodies with them in Catalonia; and the immobile benefits of the foundations of non-governmental organizations and, in general, non-profit entities, whenever they are intended exclusively for their own non-profit purposes. On the other hand, I would like to highlight two aspects of the law in which we can see up to what point it has been thought and studied, so that they include the most up-to-date technical elements to ensure their effectiveness, and to avoid, where possible, malfunctions that, in other cases, could cause their application. In the first place, and in order to ensure the effectiveness of the rule, an extensive list of forms of tenure of these non-productive acts is established which contemplates the taxable fact of the tax in its Article 2. Thus, in order to avoid new elusive practices of taxation, the rule is not limited to recording the tenancy of these goods when they are owned by a commercial society or a civil society with a commercial object, but includes all forms of business imaginable, and which, in the long run, are given in practice. Therefore, it will also encumber the ownership by title of youself or right of use; the use as a consequence of the cessation resulting from the performance of a lease financing – a lising – or as a consequence of the acquisition of the asset with a domain reservation; the use as a result of any agreement that, regardless of its legal instrumentation, allows the substantial transfer of all risks and benefits inherent in the ownership of the object of the agreement. And secondly, I have to refer to two aspects of the law that resolve the negative consequences that the tax could cause if not incorporated. Thus, the law's proposal is concerned with delimiting the taxable fact because it is not serious which does not touch, and, moreover, solves the problem of the possible double taxation of empty floors. For the purposes of delimiting the taxable fact, the law understands that the goods that we have cited before are not produced when they are not directly affected by economic or public service activities; when they are intended for private activities, uses or profit; when they are registered with the owners, members or participants of the legal person who serves as a screen, or when they are not under commercial exploitation. On the other hand, the law establishes that they are not unproductive acts, and therefore they will not tax on this tax, the immovable assets destined for the use or enjoyment of non-proprietary workers, non-members or non-participants of the company or entity. And to end this rest of the most important aspects of the articulate of the law, I refer, as I said before, to the prediction that it does so as to solve the problem of the possible double taxation of empty floors. Here the legal text leaves no room for doubt: it says in Article 9 that ‘a deduction of the full import quota is established equivalent to the quota met by the taxpayer of the tax on empty dwellings in relation to those dwellings which have remained subject to the tax on non-productive assets. I cannot finish my intervention, however, without making an assessment of what this new tax represents from a social and tax policy point of view. As explained in the explanatory statement of the bill's proposal, it is not easy for a tax measure to be truly redistributive and at the same time not to penalize economic growth; but, honestly, the groups that we present this proposal, and the group of Junts for Yes in particular, we think that this is achieved. Certainly, for the very just and redistributive that it is a tax, if its application encourages economic growth, impoverishes society, reduces the resources that are available to public administrations, and, finally, makes it impossible to allocate the resources that will be needed to social policies. But the truth is that, if fiscal policy does not have a redistributive component, we are admitting and benevolent a state of things to our society that is totally undesirable and unacceptable, such as the profound inequality between the most of them and the most needy, between the rich and the poor, and that cannot be, that cannot continue. We don't have to resign ourselves to the economic crisis, to the point of bridging the gap between the various sectors of society, to make the inequalities even bigger and, the weight, more hurtful and more punishing for anyone who has a minimum of social consciousness. However, let me express an opinion which does not simply reflect a fact which must always be taken into account: tax measures with redistributive effects are positive in many cases, but the first and perhaps most effective redistributive policy is the one that attacks the environment: that the most economically capable have, that they are the most likely to contribute, are the ones who have the most instruments at their disposal to avoid, legally, the payment of taxes by means of fiscal instruments. Therefore, I insist, this proposal of law goes in the right direction, it is a step further, and people less likely, on the way to achieve increase the progress of our tax system and a fairer redistribution of the wealth of our society. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.226.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castellví. In order to defend the totality presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.227.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Councillors, Councillors... First question, first principles of intervention: in the first place, in order to be able to distribute the wealth, which we share, what is essential is that there is a need to distribute – this is essential. I say this because we have heard speeches, especially yesterday, saying: "We do not want economic growth, we want to redistribute wealth. All right, to redistribute the rich first has to create rich. According to the question, why was it absolutely clear: measures of struggle against the fraud? Are they counting on us; measures to prevent tax evasion? I'm counting on us. But I also take one thing into account – then I'll go back to talking about tax evasion, huh? –: the tax elusion that means looking for the equipment to finance this, looking for the mechanisms to pay less taxes is not illegal, which is illegal is to simulate things to try to avoid more taxes, then it is already evasion or tax fraud, not tax elusion. But what's elusive, it's cool. What do we have to try to avoid her? Of course. I'm counting on us. The fiscal situation of Catalonia. We've had various opportunities to review it. Syntheticly: we are the Spanish community with the highest taxes; we are the Spanish community with the highest taxes– to be strict, with the highest tax types–; it is the Spanish community on..., I no longer speak of the rich, I speak of the lowest returns: for returns up to thirty_ thousand euros is where more than all the communities are paid. And now it seems that we also want to be the community where we have the most original taxes. Probably originals of the whole thing, no, because as it has already been said, it is a copy of a tax that was created, by Bildu, to Guipuscoa, and that when Bildu came out of Guipuscoa's Diputation they took him out. They took him out because they saw that he was causing displacements and they also saw that he was producing a low recap. All right, let's move on. Some objections we have to the proposal, more than objections are unanswered questions. It is a proposition of law, obviously, and therefore it is not accompanied by a memory of economic impact, which we believe is absolutely essential. We would like to know how many contributors this new tax can affect. We'd like to know what the recap's worth is. We would also like to know what possible effects this tax can have on the economic environment. And we don't have any answers, we have generalities; we have no answers, no answers, no answers, no answers, no answers, no answers. But there are more doubts and objections. First, as much as there is an effort to try to define what an unproductive action is, there are still many indeterminate and indeterminate actions that respect what an unproductive action is. I don't want to have any imagination, but a ship can be used as the protocol of a particular company, and I don't know if they can beat it somehow. It's all right, it's a little... an example. There may also be difficulties in determining who is the contributor who has to pay, because the reminders that the contributor may be a non-resident who has to determine that there is a responsible person in Catalonia. Who has to determine this person in Catalonia and who tells him that he has to appoint a person in Catalonia, who is going to be forced to make the statement? But then they'll have another problem, which is the difficulty of trusting – trusting – the contributor. It is to say, that the one who pays one year because he has the "boat the year after he does not take the "boat to Vinaròs", or that the one who pays because he has the company based in Catalonia and he has the car – or the twelve or thirteen cars, is equal to me – in Catalonia the year after he takes his social in Madrid, for example. Then we complain about tax dumping and, of course, what we're doing is getting out of Catalonia. Well, they're chances they don't have an answer. Therefore, this tax does not complete the principles of neither simplicity nor efficiency. Efficiently looking at the cost of management in relation to recaptability, because it gives another circumstance: they're telling me that this tax went right – and I can share it, huh? – to the one who says: "Ecculti'm, I put it in the name of the company to relieve me of taxes, and put a property of these characteristics in the name of the company to relieve myself of taxes. They're telling me that whoever does this is going to come here tomorrow to say, "I'm the one who's let down the other taxes and I'm coming to declare the CUP tax – are they telling me that? That's to say, it's a tax that goes to those who disappoint, and we have to wait for them to come and tell us, "I've failed over there, now I'm coming here and I'm paying – they're telling me that's what this tax is? But let me give them the ultimate reason, and from the bottom, not just to keep the message to the totality, but to ask all the groups in the chamber who vote for it. Mirin, if you make a simple example, with a net taxable base of €1_million for the asset tax, that honest contributor says: "With this I use, I have it in my assets and, therefore, I pay the asset tax– €1_million – I would pay 5,764_euros for the asset tax; in the CUP tax, I would pay 3,750. You smell it! - You smell it! Have they ever heard of: "Do I put the car in the name of the company to relieve myself of taxes? Now they will feel more, because the tax you want to impose is more cheap than the property tax, which is what people who are faithfully fulfilling their tax obligations pay. You smell it! [[Some applause.]] Those who have more, who pay more. And we already agree. But do you know what happens if the taxable base in 1_million accounts is 10_million? That the CUP's tax costs 87,500_euros and the asset's tax, 177,500_euros. That's to say, as rich as they are, they're better off with the CUP tax. You smell it! - You smell it! Mr Junqueras, you have counted not what you will return with this tax [[the timer riu]] , that it is possible to recapitulate something, but the one that will cease to recapitulate in the asset tax for the displacement effect of the taxpayers? Because, from now on, everyone is putting their property in the name of the companies, because it's going to be more fucked up – all of it. So, what are we worried about? As I said, not what's going to happen again. I still have one morning left – I still have one morning left – because I'm sure they'll tell me and, therefore, I'll get ahead of them. It is certain that the asset tax has a limitation depending on the taxable bases of returns – it is true. Therefore, those contributors who have taxable bases for the lower returns will be able to cover less with this CUP tax. Who will benefit most? Precisely those taxpayers who have the highest taxable income base; that is, the richest will be the most benefited. And you come here and explain everything to us. You can make numbers, please. They can make numbers and they'll see it. So what I'm saying to them: we don't care so much about what's going to happen, but we care about the effect it will have or may have on relocations, the effect it may have on the loss of jobs and, above all, the substitution effect: the taxpayers who would stop taxing by assets to tax this great new invention, which will allow them to pay less than they paid so far. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.228.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Then, in order to fix its position, has the word Mr. Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.229.0	Good afternoon, and thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, too, Mr Vice-President, and other deputies and assistant public. In relation to the proposed law on the tax on non-productive assets of legal persons presented by Junts pel Si and the CUP, from Citizens we want to state that we are absolutely against its current design, and we have little or no expectations that this proposal will end up translating itself into a genuine tax figure that is minimally useful and with collection capacity. We think, as the government – and I say well: "like the government – that it is a concession to the CUP to approve the budgets; that it is a proposal with symbolic value – "we are going to tax the rich defrauders – but of zero content, of zero real value. I have said before that the Government thinks like us about this proposal, and I ratify it. If the Government of the Generalitat had thought otherwise, it would have dealt with this proposal differently: it would have done so as a specific Government project or, at least, it would have done so in conjunction with the current Draft Budgets. It also reports what the Government really thinks of the fact that it has not established a minimum forecast of revenues derived from this law. The Government does not provide for income under this law because it does not actually expect to collect it. That's the reason. Why? Well, because you don't believe in this proposition and you know it's a toast to the sun to content the CUP. Members of Parliament, the proposal for a law in its current wording is full of ideological prejudices, and they have been highlighted by the speech of Mr Salellas. But it is not only full of problems or ideological prejudices, it is full of holes everywhere and multiple legal indefinitions. I'm going to set out a few, and I'm going to set out a few examples. Look, about the real estate. Well, what about the real estate? For, very simple; in this case the society can do several things before this law that would be found: the first, to rent it to the employed spouse of the same society, which is not affected. But another possibility? Well, miri, with a minimum exemption of 0.5 million euros, huh? , if you have any real estate, what you are going to do is you are going to form a company for each asset or set of assets to break down progressive or even cancel taxation. Simply, that's it. And then there's a third option, and it's buying properties out of Catalonia. Let's go to the vehicle section of over two hundred horses. What will society do? We're back. First option: buy a parking space, which by being real estate already raises the minimum exemption to five hundred_ thousand_euros, and you will tell me how many vehicles there are more than five hundred_ thousand_euros. But if the company has several vehicles that could add more than those five hundred_ thousand, it is very simple: it is a society for each set of them and they do not tax. If the thing gets complicated, a new company with domicile outside Catalonia is established. And among the options, we have to make the next one, and it is that, ultimately, the company will have the option of moving its headquarters, its head office, out of Catalonia, with the enormous damage that that would entail, because if it is forced to make that decision, all – all – taxes will stop paying if in Catalonia. Look, I know what a good solution you guys are taking. There is no doubt that we can predict that large estates will not, of course, be taxed on vehicles or buildings. In relation to boats, therefore, only 183_days a year are taxed in Catalonia, so it is also not very difficult to predict that the owner companies will take any of the following measures. One: incorporate a property into the company's tax base – again, for example, a garage – and already have an exemption of 0.5_million, so probably many ships would no longer pay. But if that is not enough, then they have another option: simply transfer the mooring of the boat in winter to any port outside Catalonia, as one of Valencia or as Mallorca. And on this I want to insist, because it supposes that, if they do this, if the companies do this..., that mooring that is made in winter, huh? , for example in Mahon, it is precisely when the maintenance and conservation of the ships are done, and we will thus harm a whole series of companies, let us say, that are engaged in these conservation and repair tasks. In such a way that the final effect is: not only are we not going to collect for the tax, but, by bouncing, side by side, we are harming these companies, and we are therefore harming some sector of the Catalan economy. For all that, I have to insist again, we speculate that the great heritage will not be taxed by ships or planes. I would also like to make a number of comments on this subject. Look, the first thing I want to say is that if a company incorporates a real estate, a boat or a vehicle into its assets – in its assets – the first thing it does is to raise the participation that partners have in the company, and that will mean that they will also have to pay a 20_per_cent on that value when they make their IRPF statement. And a company, moreover, that rents a property, a boat or a vehicle, even to a owner, a participant or a related entity, has to do what – it has to do it –, listen, at market price, and that rent is going to mean an increase in the company's revenues, which those revenues will tax to 25_per_cent – not to 1, to 25. Well, this is another aspect. Do we, therefore, have to tax with 1_per_cent what a 25 already contributes by companies? Come on, from our point of view we are facing a possible double imposition without any foundation. I shall not refer to the difference in taxation as regards scales between the tax to be claimed and the property tax, since the spokesman, let us say, of the People's Party has already done so. Look, we, of course, want to prevent you from camouflaging as company expenses high-cylinder cars and recreational boats, but the solution – the solution – is not to create a new improvised law with more holes than a Gruyère cheese. The goods that are intended to be taxed are already taxed by the property tax, which only exempts – which only exempts – those goods that are affected by the activity and, therefore, productive. What is needed – what is needed – is not a new tax figure, what is needed is that the Catalan Tax Agency does the inspection and anti-fraud work it can do in the property tax, eh? , which we have just given up and we can do tax proceedings that will bring about this possible fraud. The Tax Agency of Catalonia, in collaboration with the State Tax Agency, what should be done is that: the existing fraud should arise as far as possible. Because being a tax assigned to the Generalitat, each euro collected would represent an income for its budget, for the Generalitat's budget, and for the improvement of Catalans. Look, I will conclude, and I want to do so, as I am the last speaker in the Citizens' Group, sincerely wishing all Members a happy Christmas without exclusion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.230.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Spiny. The words of Mr Ordeig of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.231.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Vice-President or Member Junqueras – now I don't know what it is – to position the Socialist Group against the threat to the totality of the Tax Bill's proposal on non-productive legal persons, as well as to share some of the reflections that have been made here, but we are sending parliamentarians precisely to try to help resolve these issues that are not very clear, that are not very concrete. I will speak on the basis of two reflections which I hope will be at the very most important points for which we are debating: one positive one, in which we agree, and another more critical of some elements which we do not understand, certainly a contradiction, above all if we take into account that we have been having debates on the assumption, on the law of measures, during this plenary session. Of course we are in favour of a tax on the great fortunes, on the taxation of the luxury goods. Obviously we have a problem because it's no longer rich creation, as it was said; it's about creating rich, it's about creating progress, it's about empty businesses, if that's... It's about the economy growing, but it's about inequalities also growing. Therefore, there is no longer enough only to create occupation, only to create wealth. We have another problem, and we see that more wealth no longer means less inequality; at these times more wealth, if nothing, means more inequality. Therefore, it is good to pay for high value properties that are unproductive. I need to pursue the tax fraud. Some of the elements that have been said here: if someone has a good for the company and is not for the activity of the company, this cannot be done, it would be hot to pursue it. So, sometimes we're also regulating more when maybe what we should do is try to make the law complete, inspections to avoid tax fraud, that we all have very clear things that we don't have to do. So, that 0,36_percent of Catalans and Catalans earn more than 150,000_a year is a fact; that every day there are more people and territories that are on the edge of progress; that it is necessary to introduce a progressive, redistributive and tax-based taxation than actually what they do is to tax the one they have the most, to review the bonuses, the exemptions, that sometimes we lose everyone and in the end they don't know who is the most paying, and, in the end, we obviously see how the most they actually have are not the most paying. Also when we say who has the most, the most pay. All right, but another very important element: with this alone there is not only redistribution, but we need to make some spending policies, some public assumptions that really help what is happening worse. Therefore, cars of more than two-hundred horses, boats, aircrafts, immobiles. One hundred thousand euros if there is no real estate, up to 500,000 euros if there is real estate – I also say that because at some point it seemed like we weren't exactly saying that. We have doubts as to whether the people who have been making fraud will actually self-liquidate to declare or not to look for other formulas precisely to store these assets and not to pay. We have doubts about – and this is the second part of the criticism that we would make of the writing, obviously predisposed to present-exams – if there is no double taxation. We have doubts about whether we're going to reduce the recap, and so, here's a topic we offer ourselves to work on, huh? , from the good will, to try really not to escape the recaptation, not to escape the actions, which we all surely agree they have to pay. But we also have doubts as to whether this proposal should not be used to cover the agreement of assumptions, to cover the agreement of the Law of measures in which it is impossible to make an appreciation of all that we are saying in this proposal of law, which may have good intentions but which obviously does not link the rest of the taxes that we have been talking about these days: societies, assets. If we wanted to make a tax on the great fortunes, then surely what we had to do is make a change in estates, make a change in assets, and so here, yes, surely, we could then finish reconnecting it with this law proposal, a good modification of the important taxes in recapitation and redistribution. I, therefore, a 2017 budget of expenditure that was just, a budget of expenditure that was as just as possible for the territories, as just as possible for the people. From our point of view, this has not happened; therefore, you have to understand that we have some doubts about what we are presented with. A presumption that there is no money for children, that there is no money for the guaranteed income of citizens, that there is no money for the feeding grants, and then they propose to us this proposal of law. So, obviously, we don't know if it's the best way or a coherent way – coherent – to defend everything that's been said here. What else? I did not say the corporate tax, but obviously it would also be important. The... yeah. Forgive me, huh? [[Pause.]] Another element that we have already commented on and that would be useful to incorporate: the inspection of the tax by the Tax Agency. We use our mouths that we have skills or that we have to inspect, but then we don't have the resources precisely to avoid tax fraud, precisely to do inspections. How can we prove who is actually doing these immobiles, these goods, these cars, these boats, these aircraft? How can we prove if we really – because the proposal doesn't –..., how can we really know who is doing it, who controls it, how can the corresponding sanctions be done? In summary: we, obviously, as I have commented to the company Santi Rodríguez, will vote against the threat to the totality. We believe that more needs to be done, and more can be done, in the Law of Presumptions, in the Law of Measurements, on purpose, too. And, therefore, from the Socialist Group, all the predisposition to try to improve it. At the same time, I want to change a series of things that we see in our group counter-productive or that can extend the recap, extend the tax payment, precisely, with the objectives that we have been talking about. Therefore, a small step forward, of course; ailing and insufficient, surely, respect the assumptions that we have been debating and the Law of Measures, which sometimes contrasts with the continuity in fiscal matters that sometimes we do not manage all folds of breaking, of taking a step forward precisely with these objectives that we all set ourselves and that we have not just achieved and overcome with this inertia, eh? , and go against it. Therefore, against the totality of the emena. We will present reports and, obviously, as far as we can, we will try to improve the text that has been proposed. Many thanks, president, deputies, deputies, vice president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.232.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Ordeig. Next, has the word Mr. Joan Coscubiela, in representation of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya de Si that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.233.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I want to make one thing clear from the beginning: we fully share the theoretical objective, the objective that has been made explicit, which supposedly has this proposition of law, and it is to avoid elements of exclusion and, quite clearly, tax fraud, and to do so clearly and clearly. Now, let's just say that I have the feeling that in the end, in the background of this bill, there is another objective, because, if that were the case, there wouldn't have been so many problems..., if that was the case, that Together for the Yes agrees to pay more to what they have, they wouldn't have to have so many obstacles to putting aside the reform of the IRPF of estates and donations, and of assets, which leads me to think that possibly this law has another hidden object, that it is to clear some consciences. I have no doubt that the initial and sincere object of the CUP is to save the great fortunes, but the final result ends up feeling another completely different, and not just because of its technical deficiencies, but because, most likely, and I would like to make a mistake, the final result followed by its practical uselessity. Clearly, what's going on is that this proposal for you can give a certain report – a certain report – right? After I said no to the IRPF's tax reform, inheritances and donations and assets, and don't pretend that it's not about paying more than they have, because everyone talks about it, but the government doesn't do it, it needs a report. And the story is: "Oh, we don't do this, but we'll save the big fortunes, it started at the beginning, now it's saying the unproductive benefits. Clearly, this clearly leaves a lot of peace to the Democratic Convergence, to the PDECAT, above all because it is harmless in relation to its electoral clientele. Esquerra Republicana allows him to justify himself before the total abandonment of his fiscal proposals that he defended when he was at the opposition. Well, we're here. Honestly, huh? I think we're opening with this law – and I hope I'm wrong, what I would like the most in this world is to be wrong in this critical position in this law proposal – a new law manner, which we could call "consolation law," huh? , read the "Consolation Act". You know we have soft law, don't you? , laws which do not establish obligations, only political objectives. We'd come up with some wish law in this country, laws marked by desires, but they don't have to either. And this seems to be oriented towards giving a certain comfort, a certain spiritual consolation to which they decide not to apply the reform that can be done, which is that of the IRPF, successions, donations and assets. You see, our group has not presented it to the totality, and we are more thinking of voting against it, because we think that we should give an opportunity – if it exists, if we have serious doubts – because of its debate on something useful, from this point of view. But we're afraid that the end result may end up being not a tax on unproductive goods, but an unproductive tax on its ability to get tickets to the Catalan heritage. I insist, don't I? , we share the problem, but look at you, it is that the strategies of choice, and in some cases clearly of tax fraud that use some entrepreneurs, form part of the tax legislation approved at the level of the Spanish State – clearly – but that has been voted, if not pushed, by Convergence and Union, it is to say, for the party of some of the signatories of this proposal of law, that is Mr. Jordi Turull. What credibility can they have now in this sense? Tax elucidation strategies designed for tax advisors who are curiously the same as in the proposal of Juntes Law for the Yes and the UPC on the Tax Code of Catalonia appear to have a central role in the design of tax policies of the new Catalan Republic. Do you really imagine that the tax advisors, from the Catalonia tax code, who have proposed to us, will put forward different policies from those who are, as in business, advising their customers, which are ultimately the ones who make this elusion and this fraud? I insist, we have an opportunity, you know that this is... it's happened here. You have an article 55 of the Law of Heritage, I believe it is of 91, which clearly allows the Government of Catalonia to act from the point of view of inspector in matter of assets tax. Because, in short, we are talking about a people who use and place as well-off private-use companies who should be declared in their property tax and who in this way do not pay. Listen, you have this mechanism, and you have promised us that you will do something different from what you have done to us so far, which is that the Tax Agency of Catalonia, after saying that it has no skills for a long time – has been explained many times by Mr Junqueras –, it turns out that it has outsourced these skills, for example, to others, among others to the Spanish Tax Agency, huh? , or he's come up with this subject. So now is the opportunity to do so from that perspective. What's going on is that, honestly, I'm beginning to recognize – starting to recognize – those who have technically crafted this law, they've got stones on them... because the truth is, yes, they've had imagination. I have, I have serious doubts, huh? Perhaps not, I am mistaken, but as Mr Junqueras would say, who said it yesterday in a hyperrealism attack, well, "things are as they are. Yesterday he said "things are as they are in relation to the issue of public deficit; well, then, things are as they are in relation to LOFCA. I do not know if this law, from this point of view, passes control of the elements, to say: "It is that you are regulating something that affects the asset tax; change the asset tax and extend it with inspection. I don't know, I have serious doubts, from this point of view. But above all, I have doubts about its applicability. Again I insist on a question: fixed 'you'..., well, already appeared, from this point of view, some elements. In fact, the taxable fact decides the evader, or the defrauder. That is to say, a person who should declare this as a property tax and does not do so decides whether or not it is taxable in the face of the new tax, that. And he decides whether or not he's been committing tax fraud. Well, that might happen, I'm not saying no, huh? I could only go through a guess, which is that you're getting more out of it, with which, unfortunately, we're doing it. But honestly, it costs me a lot – it costs me a lot – to imagine that there are elements... Yes, the charge this, it has been said, is of self-liquidation; in this case, self-liquidation of the defrauder is a self-indictment in relation to the previous years. Honestly, it costs me a little to imagine it from this point of view. They will only do so if they benefit from it. And this is one of the elements that makes it possible, from this point of view, not to be able, of course..., and, I insist, to recognize the work that has been done, because we know that there has been a lot of work, both from the department, from the Economics Council, as from the CUP, on this issue, and they have tried to look for similarities. But, of course, we all know that, unfortunately, the competitions of the Guipuscoa Provincial Council are higher than the competitions of the Catalonian Government. A real aberration, from this point of view, that we need to modify. But that's what plays, frontally, before the possibility of doing things. Let me say to you, of all kinds, that there is one thing I hope we can all agree on: in the introductory part, in the presentation of motius, there is an ideological statement that has put my hair at the top, because it is to say that a tax that aims at redistribution is a tax that limits economic growth. Look, it's that, already, this counterposition between economic efficiency and equality is already something that neither the current liberals say. It is to say, if something is happening at these times it is that absolutely everyone is thinking that the only model of sustainable economic efficiency is that which is based, precisely, on the achievement of equality, with the reduction of equality. Or so, we must agree, at least, on the fact that this ideological gazapo that has glued some into the writing of this display of motius, therefore, disappears. From this point of view, of course, look, listen, do we really want to make them pay more for what they have more? Do we really want to increase the capacity of the Catalan heritage to have resources to do things? Punyetes, Tuesdays voted against you to incorporate this into the debate; yesterday they returned, another time, to vote against it. We have the possibility to situate the reform of the IRPF, of estates, donations and assets. In this sense, I insist, we will vote against the threat to the totality of the People's Party. We'll try, to the extent of our possibilities, to see if this is..., if you have any solution. But they ask them one thing to change: if their speech about making them pay more for what they have most to justify this tax is credible, and not an ideological alibi, and not just one thing to rent bad consciences, they have it very easy: back from what they have done and accept, once and for all, reforming the tax..., the catal IRPF's section, inheritances and donations, and assets. We have a margin of a few hundred million euros in one year. Why – why – do we have to go and do something so complicated that we don't have, or so alone, the guarantees that will get some kind of productive input while we give up what is relatively easy? Clearly, it's politically complicated, because it means going to the electoral bases, to someone's electoral camps, and that's what you don't want to do. Then I suggest a pact: we will study the possibilities of improving this proposal of law; you, please, once and for all, accept IRPF reform, estates and donations, and assets. I think it's an acceptable deal, right? If you really want to make the most of it. If what it is is to clean up bad consciences, then the thing is different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.234.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Then, to the contrary, has the word Mr. Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Cry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.235.0	Thank you, President. Well, I don't think... that the replicas of the ultra-liberal unionism of this Parliament, so they haven't disappointed our expectations, have they? Basically, PP and Ciutadans have dedicated themselves to raising difficulties and practically doing a class of direct tax fraud, huh? They have explained to us many ways of defrauding the public record; we see that they have their hands cut off in this matter. And they ended up putting us, in this sense, Mr Espinosa, an authentic tax map of the Catalan Countries. We liked it, in this sense, as long as they don't let us do it politically, as much as they do, fiscally, don't they? , you talk about the ports of Mallorca, the port of València, the port of Maó. And we like that, because, more than that, the Catalan Countries, we have..., we have mapped corruption to the Catalan Countries, and the tax fraud, and the fraud of all kinds, and all kinds of counterstrategies, somehow, to the protection of public error. The map of the Catalan Countries tea, related to corruption, Brugal, tea Gürtel, tea Taula, tea Imelsa, tea EMARSA, tea Fabra, tea IVAM, tea Terra Mítica, tea Ivex, tea Blasco, tea Rasputín, tea Soller, tea Cola-Cao, tea Pinyata, tea Palma, tea Arena, tea Noos, tea Turisme, tea Jove, tea Ibatur, tea Can Domenge, Voltor, tea Bitel, tea Andratx. Well, all these cases, the PP's Parliamentary Group supposes that they know them and I suppose that from here, perhaps, indirectly, so, some of the explanations with which they tried to subpoena us today, right? From here or from the 31,484 taxpayers who were amnestyed in the past fiscal amnesty, in which, we do not forget, there was also the same threesome of the party Luis Bárcenas. So, of course. [[the timer riu]] If it's about pursuing tax fraud and tax evasion, it's logical that we don't agree – it's logical that we don't agree – because we are, as we said today, in diametrically opposed positions. In any case, I would like to rebut the arguments they have put on the table. In the first place, the question of the fiscal shield. What you have explained about the fiscal shield is directly contradictory to what you have explained yourself. The tax exemption is precisely between the property tax and the income tax of physical persons. Therefore, it has nothing to do with the tax that we are laying here. Precisely this well-regulated, well-worked, well-provided tax can also be a more combative mechanism against an infamous mechanism that is said to be fiscal listening. And with regard to the taxpayer's escape, you already... have a component so predictable that we've already been documented. To remind him, precisely, with regard to all the studies that were made on the tax of great fortunes to Guipuscoa, that there was a tax evasion of exactly forty-nine taxpayers, at the time when it was applied this tax of great fortunes, which assumed 0.62_percent of the persons obliged to declare it – forty-nine taxpayers, 0.62_percent. Do you know why? Because you're starting from an idea that's terrible, that's wicked and that's infamous, that's that people want to disappoint. And that's not so, because even all the people who are rich take on their responsibilities, and not because we press taxes that they will do will be precisely trying to elude them. So we move forward with approval and processing of this law, work it and incorporate everything that is needed. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.236.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.237.0	To answer the reply, from the escó estant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.238.0	Can you expect them to end? Huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.239.0	Oh, yes, he did.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.240.0	What's Ms. Castellví missing, and then... okay? [[Pause.]] The word "Mrs.Carmina Castellví", of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.241.0	Thank you, President. Well, Mr. Rodriguez, you see, it's not because the vulgar misdeeds, to the company of the CUP, but it's a tax that we jointly present, it's not the CUP's tax, simply. I just wish you, Mr. Rodriguez, that you wouldn't pass it on to what happened to you with the sugary beaker tax, that while you were criticizing it here, in Madrid you were copying it, it's to say, in principle, that... [[Greetings.]] And another thing, Mr. Rodriguez – I won't be with you any more, will I? , I'm done –: you're contradicted, because you're telling us that if you pay less taxes, but there will be displacements, and then you say that there will be displacements... I guess we'll end up having an effect called thanks to this tax, that all companies will come here. Mr. Spiny, thank you... [[Pause.]] Where are you? Here, I had lost him. I would also like to thank him for the decline in the number of situations and examples of tax evasion that he has made, and we will take it into account during processing to avoid all of them; I do not know if we will get to all of them, but to avoid all of them. Well, we already have – when I was talking about ships – a very clear case in the courts for putting a luxury ship in the name of the company. Mr. Ordeig, thank you for your intervention, your tone and your willingness to improve the text. And, Mr. Coscubiela, we open windows, we move forward, we don't always stay in the IRPF, successions and... who's the other one? [[Pause.]] Heritage, of course. We open them – we open them – but help us to move forward on this line that you ask for, right? And this tax, above all, is not against economic growth, but what it will do is encourage that there are no unproductive acts. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.242.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castellví. Now we're calling for a vote. And Mr. Rodriguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.243.0	Thank you. No, very briefly. Just two points, Mrs. Castellví. There is no contradiction, I have set them two scenes: one, on the assumption that this tax is well laid out from the point of view of quotas and, therefore, did not compete with the property tax, the serious effects I have told you. The problem is that this tax is not well designed, it competes with the property tax and, in the end, it's not so worrying about the greater amount of money we can have for this tax, but what's really worrying is the smallest amount of money we can have for the property tax. Mr. Salellas, you have really made a remarkable effort to try to search for names and try to keep silent about the name of our party. Look, this isn't going to happen to us anymore. But do you know the first person I thought about when I saw the tax you guys were putting in here, you guys and together for the yes here? So, I thought of Jordi Pujol Ferrusola, that at this moment you must be applauding with the ears. [[Some MPs peck their hands at the bait.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.244.0	Mr Espinosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.245.0	Well, also by allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.246.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.247.0	Let's see, I wanted to comment to Mr. Salellas that if anyone has the prejudice that the rich have a defrauding vocation it is precisely the CUP, not us. But apart from that, look, I today, if anything – if anything – have not given you a kind of tax evasion, but a kind of tax realism. I mean, I've shown you the holes, the huge holes that have a bill proposal that you've brought to the chamber. And just tell him that from the tax knowledge – from the tax knowledge – you can make good tax legislation, not make the ignorance. And in that sense, believe me, I am very happy to move the one we have. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.248.0	Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.249.0	That's why it came back. Thirty seconds, huh? Well, look, put your name on it. To do the same as the previous ones.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.250.0	Put your name in it, but don't come back for a reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.251.0	Okay. It seemed to me that a reply was being asked; of others, allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.252.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.253.0	You have the name you want, just like the others.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.254.0	It's just... it's that Mr. Rodriguez was greeted, Mr. Espinosa was greeted, and I don't remember you being greeted.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.255.0	Well, I think so, but go on – I think so. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.256.0	It's the same. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.257.0	Thank you, Madam President. Miri, you'll see how easy it was. Excuse me, I forgot an important argument. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.258.0	Ah, that was the question!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.259.0	To wish them, on behalf of the group, that they vagrate these parties very well. I, above all, do not forget to ask the uncle, Santa Claus and the King to bring us the reform of the IRPF, of estates and of assets. Ask her, and please. [[Widow's remorse.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-22-2703.260.0	Let's vote on the speech to the totality presented for the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. The vote begins. As the motion was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 97 against and 25 abstentions, its processing continues. [[Greetings.]] This is the last session. The last session of this period. [[Rialles. Someone says, "From this period and this year.]] This period and this year – this is the last session of this period and this year. Therefore, I want to take advantage of them to thank them for their work, for their dedication and also for helping me during the sessions. Simply, wish them very good holidays, very good Nadal, a better year 2007 and that all... [[Rialles.]] 2017 – 2017. And we need a vacation, you see. [[Perlongats applause.]] The session's up.
