ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.1.0	Very good morning, the session begins. Before starting it, I remember that, according to Rule 93 of the Rules, the deputies Alicia Romero Llano, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and Àngels Martínez Castells, of the Catalan Parliamentary Group Yes, it is Pot, have delegated their vote to the spokespersons of their groups, Mrs Eva Granados and Mr Joan Coscubila, respectively. [[General debate on the social emergency situation, economic recovery, public management and the need for an institutional response]] [[255-00001/11]] The only point on the agenda is the general debate on the social emergency situation, economic recovery, public management and the need for an institutional response. In accordance with Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure, this general debate shall be governed by the provisions of Articles 151 and 152 of the Rules of Procedure and the sequence agreed for the Board of Spokespersons. As this debate is on the initiative of two parliamentary groups, we will begin with the intervention of the representatives of these groups in order to present the reasons for their request, for a maximum of two minutes. In the first place, has the word Mr Miquel Iceta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.2.0	Thank you, Madam President. Many honourable President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, Entities who are accompanying us today, I would like to open this debate on behalf of the Socialist Group in a very specific request for our group and the Catalonian Parliamentary Group Yes, it is. Just two years ago, this Parliament also met in plenary session to address the issues we have come to discuss here today. And I want to start my intervention by using the same words that Eva Granados then used. Deia Eva Granados: "The Socialist Parliamentary Group has asked this House because we want to match the main concern of Catalans with the debate and political action in Parliament and the Government. We want to place at the heart of the political agenda the daily life of Catalans and Catalans, which is not written in history books, but which really matters. If before the crisis the social agenda was important for Catalans, its duration, its severity, its intensity, have caused this concern in Catalans to have increased by 200_per_cent. Attitude, precariousness, are the main problems of Catalans and Catalans, and here we have to add concern for education, access to housing, sanitation, social policies. That is to say, the occupation and the social protection network are the center of the concerns of Catalans – the appointment ends. And these are words that, unfortunately, remain in force. Two years ago, the Socialist Group, together with the Group d'Initiativa per Catalunya Verds - Esquerra Unita e Alternativa, presented various proposals for a resolution: on poor energy, on dependence and personal autonomy, on transparency and return plan of the generality's debt with entities providing social services and on improvements in the minimum income of insertion and on the guarantee of minimum entrances. Our group has also put forward proposals for a resolution in relation to the economic situation, on barrels in crisis, on the need for a model of social intervention based on a system of social services well equipped to respond to inequalities and social emergencies, on occupation, on education, on childhood, on food and on housing. Two years ago, many entities and many opinion-makers criticized the migration of the measures finally adopted by the plenary. The Table of Entities of the Third Sector of Catalonia issued a statement stating that – I quote literally – "social entities consider Parliament's agreements on the poor to be insufficient and that resolutions approved by the plenary meant – and I quote literally –" shy advances in topics such as food grants, energy poverty or minimum income for insertion. We don't want you to succeed the same; we can't afford just shy adventures. Two years later, our reflections, concerns, actions and resolutions have similar orientation, because the situation of social emergence is maintained and, finally, worsens. I am sure that in the intervention of the Poor Zero platform there will be very worrying data, and I would like to welcome the fact that in this Ple – which was not possible two years ago – there has been an intervention from the world of entities committed to social emergence. Two years ago we spoke of increasing poverty and inequality, of this in the days of social emergence and economic recovery. We are talking about poverty, vulnerability, social exclusion, inequality, and also economic reactivation, occupation and industrial vocation of the country, problems that cannot wait a great day that will fix it. They are problems that require political will to resolve them, governance agreements, presupposable commitments. We need an ambitious, truly fair and equitable social policy, and a boost to economic recovery and job creation, which in themselves create opportunities and enable us to sustain social Catalonia. This debate cannot be confined to statements of intent, nor must it become a sub-up. Our group does not claim the government's erosion or make this ple an instrument of opposition. Our intention is to encourage government action, to reach agreements as concrete and ambitious as possible, and to establish mechanisms to verify agreements and to continue the debate that we will be doing between today and tomorrow. We want to agree among all and among all the need to elaborate the Pla for inclusion and social cohesion in Catalonia, with a duration of four years; a plan that lowers the global strategies of active inclusion that combine measures oriented to the labor market, access to the service of the state of quality welfare and to adequate minimum entrances. For the development of the Platform it will be necessary to have an accurate diagnosis of the situation, indicators of monitoring and evaluation and an economic compromise that can be revised according to the indicators; a plan developed with a dialog with local governments, agents and social entities. And we also believe that we need to rethink the growth strategy, so that economic recovery can reach everyone. We want to urge the government to restart contacts with economic and social agents to establish the foundations for a new social dialogue, as we wanted to do with the strategic agreement. We need to agree that reforms to make a sustainable model of economic development possible, from social, economic and environmental perspectives, is still a reality. An agreement that focuses on our industrial fabric and that aims at economic recovery, for the sake of a quality occupation and with rights. An economic model based on knowledge and innovation, not on job insecurity and wage devaluation. Let's not just say this: the pact's more industry marks the way forward. We would like Parliament to establish a permanent social agenda that ensures verification of this House's agreements and comprehensive follow-up of all the rescue actions that the economic crisis and its consequences make essential. We are aware that we do not have all the margin we want, but we have the ability to meet the most urgent needs and guide economic recovery policies. We want the government to present urgently a draft of assumptions, to tell us how much resources it intends to devote to social emergencies and to reverse the rights and public services that have been practiced over the past few years. We need dialogue, negotiation and pacts with the local world, trade unions, business organisations and social entities, and we also hope that there will be nothing between the parliamentary groups and the government, with a reason for this plenary and beyond. In short, we want to place social emergence at the top of the Catalan political agenda, with – among others – the return to a more justly dependent co-payment for people with disabilities; the guarantee of food and school supplies to all children and young people who, while still needing help, do not have access to help; the payment of water, light and gas bills, as well as active political employment needs for young people, who are more than forty-five years old and long-term unemployed. As the guaranteed income of citizens rises, so that the minimum income of insertion becomes a guaranteed right. That the government recognize and tell us when it will settle the debt with local administrations and entities in the third social sector and increase our commitment to equality between men and women and to the eradication of male violence. Finally, Madam President, I was reminded of the letter that Save the Children addressed to all groups in the chamber: "If anyone is particularly a victim of the poor, inequalities, social exclusion, sexual settlement and violence, they are infants. The ciphers are striking. It is clear, therefore, that we need a comprehensive strategy to eradicate violence against children, comprehensive measures to fight against the child's poverty and to ensure that migrant children, refugees and victims of trafficking are gathered and integrated. The rich and full Catalonia that we all defend cannot allow neither inaction nor indifference before social emergence. All of us say that this House gives us the right answer. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.3.0	Next, there is the word Lluís Rabell, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.4.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, honourable Members, Government Councillors, Members of Parliament, Friends and Friends of the Entities that accompany us today. Well, as a friend of the situation we are living in, as a friend of the sufferings and failings that affect an important part of Catalan society, it would seem that we need to justify the petition for an extraordinary plethora to talk about measures of social emergence. Tanmateix, this petition, made in November of last year, had to overcome not a few difficulties until it reached today's plenary. At that time we had a functioning government, now we have a new execution, which we call for immediate action, clear social priorities in all their actions and the prompt presentation of responsible and consistent assumptions with the gravity of this situation. Look, at the end of 2015 and at the beginnings of Encany, a whole series of rigorous reports and studies prepared for Caritas, for Oxfam, for Workers' Commissions, for Third Sector Entities, have confirmed the same diagnosis: our society is becoming every time more unequal, more unjust and more impoverished. We come from years of crisis and injustice and political absolvers of austerity, and its perverse effects, far from drowning, deepen and become chronic and hit with particular virulence certain collections: people migrated, families with children and families that we already used to call single-maritime, i.e., family units that lead to lonely and often precarious and poorly paid jobs. All in all, it is a terrible, unacceptable mortgage on the future of our country. And it is worth saying that the much-advanced recovery that shows some macroeconomic indicators referring to the GDP, gross domestic product, or the global figures of the dark, is hardly noticeable in the working people's hearths to the humble barrels of our towns and cities. The Insocat report, one of which I referred to, at the end of 2015 summarizes it in an unappealable way; says this report: "In Catalan society it gives a growing polarization. The rich are each time richer; the poor, every time poorer, and the middle class becomes weaker. Every time there are more people in extreme poverty. The population that lives with entries less than 40_percent of middle income has not stopped to increase from the beginning of the crisis until 11.7_percent of the year 2014. And, at the same time, we see how in one year the percentage of families who suffer from heavy material shortages has doubled: 16.8_per_cent of the population in 2014, before 7.8 in 2013. And an aggravating factor, a political fact that we will not get tired of: the successive labor reforms, in particular the reform of 2012, voted at that time for the People's Party and Convergence and answered from the street for a general wave that still holds, with hundreds of unionists prosecuted today, and which we demand to see repealed. "Later labour reform," said the same report, "has given way to a clear deterioration in working conditions – wage increases, an increase in time, a reduction in the volume of workers and co-workers agreed on – and an increase in youth and long-term working conditions. Today, the phenomenon of poor workers has been consolidated: 11.7_percent of working people have tickets that do not exceed the threshold of the poor and 28.8_percent of those under the age of seven years in Catalonia is at risk of poverty. They are outrageous, indefensible data, but we do not lose sight of them at any moment, figures referring to people, to citizens and to citizens, to whom we often talk about building a new country, about indebting a process, or to whom we ask to pronounce on independence. So, well, let's hear – and it will be useful for us to do this – what the people who develop concrete social work tell us about the impacts these inequalities have on the population: "The poor, says Teresa Crespo, "is not capable of being autonomous in making decisions, not being able to make commitments because they live a day; "in extreme poor situations, adds Mercè Darnell, of Caritas, "planning disappears, and therefore disappears the decisions thought. To speak of poverty is also to speak of salvation: of the problems of general salvation of families, of nourishment in infants, of mental salvation in adults. Between the most benevolent areas and the most disadvantaged barrels of Barcelona, of the capital of this new country that we want to build, the difference of life expectancy, the difference attributable to social determinants, already goes back to eleven years. And to talk about this situation is to talk about the lefts in social cohesion and of disstructure, it's to talk about a suspended coexistence and democracy in question. "Migrated people, remember us, for example, Roser García, of the Couple of Children, "must add to their precarious economic situation the stigma of their origin, but they have stalled, have children here, are veins of the barrels and are already part of " us". And, indeed, after years of working and living in Catalonia, there are many people who find themselves at hours of this time in an irregular situation that survives in losing their jobs or in finding only precarious occupations. And it is not only young people who become irregular as a consequence of these circumstances of their parents. Without residence or work permits they will only be able to find jobs in black, as they pass them to some young wards for Administration, which often leave the center with residence permits but not work. The humanitarian crisis of refugees who trick us at the gates of Europe should have us reflect and react. Observing the perilous drift of xenophobia from the growing states and from the European public opinion, we can ask ourselves how unequal democracy can be before we see the old demons resurrect that will one day devastate it. And here, in our home, we should also ask ourselves how we could sustain a democratic advent process, so what is the political timing that each one of us advocated for Catalonia, on the basis of a fractured, malmised or atomized society. Therefore, we address the responsibility of this chamber, because it takes the situation of social emergence that the country suffers. And we understand that it is necessary to act without delay. No invocation of an ideal state, for whatever reason; no denunciation, for whatever reason, of the Spanish Government's incompliments, could justify a dilating attitude on the part of the Generality. We need to be able to respond to this emergence with the constraints that we have while working all folds to strengthen the resources of self-government and to excavate its entries. The plethora we are celebrating today certainly cannot replace or anticipate the proper debate on the assumptions. In a way, however, the foreshadows, because the realization of an authentic plan of soc will require prioritizing investments and rationalizing expenses, fighting against a tax fraud of unsustainable proportions, looking for tax revenues, but also reversing privatization dynamics in public services, effectively combating corruption or renegotiating finance and debt services. The debates and decisions of this extraordinary plenary cannot, therefore, be a minimum of social parentheses and, even less, assistance to our political class; quite the contrary, we understand that they should mark their entire development. It is in this sense that we are presenting a whole series of resolution proposals, many of them together with the PSC's companies and companies. Thus, we believe it is necessary to give a final boost to the Law's handling of guaranteed income from citizenship, to ensure with sufficient parties access to the fooder scholarships or to face the payments that affect the entities of the third sector and the joint ventures. To act in favour of quality occupation and salary recovery; to attend to the situation of the young man who is prevented from leaving the country in search of opportunities. We need to address problems related to access to housing and protect families from the heights of basic sub-administrations; facilitate as much as possible the regularization of new citizens. And, less than ever since March 8th, we can't be a Roman with arms folded before the grave that represents the rapes against the women that so many times we have denounced in this same chamber. Finally, I would like to say that not a few entities have asked of us since that plenary on poverty two years ago: we will be able to establish effective mechanisms to follow up on the decisions we adopt, as well as assessment of their impact on people's living conditions from rigorous and recognizable indicators. In a word: the poor, the inequalities, the social and environmental strata that we see today have deep, structural and systemic causes. Their growth has to do with neo-liberal public policies developed intensively these last few years. To eradicate the poor, to end these causes, obviously, goes beyond the possibilities of the Plenum that we are starting. This should, however, be our horitzo; to reverse the model that has led us here, our ambition. Today, more modestly, but without losing this perspective, we need to take concrete steps, addressing the most bloody situations, the most indefatigable needs. Catalonia's citizenry turns its hopeful gaze and demands that this Parliament be led. Ladies and gentlemen, let us know that we are at the height of a situation which, with all its properties, we have called social emergence. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.5.0	The Board of Spokespersons, in accordance with Article 197.1 of the Rules of Procedure, agreed that the Poor Zero Platform in representation of entities and social groups related to the purpose of this Plenary would appear and intervene in this Plenary. I also took the opportunity, on behalf of the whole chamber, to welcome the representatives of the Poor Zero platform and also the representatives of all the other entities that are accompanying us today. And then there's the word Poor Zero's wallet, Mrs. Teresa Crespo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.6.0	Honourable President, Councillors, Councillors, Members of Parliament, Members of the Third Sector Companies, welcome. Well, I'm here on behalf of the Poor Zero platform, and the first one I'd like to do is to thank this chamber that has invited us; that you have invited this platform, Poor Zero- Global Justice; that we can, today, here, expose our points of view, our proposals, our lives, and, somehow, we can see all folds as we can overcome the crisis that we are living today, and that is not yet over; they have seen us say that there is no longer, that we are already overcoming, but our experience, our experience, our life tells us that the weather is not yet over, that inequalities are not being reduced and, ultimately, that the poor are not diminishing, either. Therefore, this is the object that, quite certainly, this chamber has decided to treat, and to whom we congratulate and give thanks for this idea, and also because you invited us to be here. I believe that, for us, this is the first time that the social sector can speak from this rostrum. For us this is very important; it is very important because there is a topic that the sector has always wanted to have, and it is a small capacity to work together, to work folded; in some ways, too, that it recognizes the ability of the entities to work; that, many times, with few resources, with a lot of innovation, with many solvers, to be close to the person who suffers, we have sought the answers for those situations, sometimes, emerging. The platform Poor Zero-Justicia Global aggregates 3,200 organizations of the social field, of international cooperation, of pa, of human rights, all of here, of Catalonia; mostly, we are entities of the third sector, but there have also syndicates, professional colleges, representatives of universities... So, that's, we could say, a good representation of what civil society is. Every 17th of October we go out to the street; we go out to the street because we feel our sight. And our vision is to say... it's, on the 17th, the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty. And we went out to the street to raise awareness of the citizenry, to raise awareness of the political powers, because it is necessary to fight seriously the poor woman's sacre. And among all of us we have to do it, and not just one or the other, but together; if all of us possess it, we can overcome this poor thing that every day is more severe and deeper. The platform has four wallets: Patricia Cantarell, Núria Carrera, Oriol Illa and myself. In the last part of the plenary session, you decided to talk to me. I could have talked about any of the others, and maybe better than me, but this was the decision. I think it's important that... well, they're with us, they're here with us. And, therefore, the graces that from there make their recollection. Well, last October we did our manifesto and decided it was such an important issue that we didn't want to leave it from 17 to 17 October, but we wanted you to be present every day of the calendar. And we made a calendar with a whole series of ideas because every day we could look at the calendar and say, "What's going on with the poor girl today? What's going on with the inequalities today? And in this sense, this calendar and all the manifesto and compromises that we wrote and asked the people who joined it... it was a constant during these months. We were talking to all the political parties; we also had an interview with the Speaker of Parliament, who listened to us. And one of the requests that we have made is to say: Parliament should raise us up; it should assume, like Parliament, an institutional declaration, which is this commitment to fight the poor. The entities are confident, we believe that I am sure that this today's session will be able to reach this agreement tomorrow that expresses Parliament's willingness to fight poverty and inequality. My exhibition will be an exhibition that is used above all in this document that we made by October 17th. They have all of you, because we delivered a copy to each of the deputies. The idea is a document that is more than a manifesto; it is the reflection of what is going on in our country today and who are the great lines that would be able to design and work. Today's debate coincides in a significant percentage of points. And that's why I'm going to talk from the document that the Poor Zero and Global Justice platform wrote, because, as a representative, I think it's a job that lasted a year, it's not anything..., it's not a fact of today tomorrow, and so we feel very identified with the reflections in this document. The debate today, specific, of social emergence, economic recovery, public management and the need for an institutional response, I think it fits very much with a part of our speech and our plans. Next, I'll give some data on the current situation; maybe a look at what's going on in the world, what's going on in the Spanish State and what's going on in Catalonia, which is ultimately what we're interested in today. If we look at a bit of what's going on in the world, the World Bank estimates, in 2015, that there were 700_million people living in extreme poverty, which means that they live with 1.9_dollars a day. That's the reality. If this trend continues, all the great agreements that have been made to the United Nations for human development will not be completed, because it is obvious that every time... 2030 will not have... we will not have eradicated the extreme poor, but we will continue to have it, or more, inclusive. The Oxfam Intermon report, which came out now, to the gener, speaks that a 1_percent richer than the population possesses more wealth than the remaining 99_per_cent. I can't say more, it's clear that there's a huge inequality between the richest and the poorest. And, if we're talking about the Spanish State, the last statistics also tell us that the Spanish State is behind Latvia, the country where inequalities have increased the most. It's obvious... it's pretty embarrassing that we need to stand out precisely for this rise in inequalities. If we talk about Catalonia, we also find Catalonia, for example, with another data: that only the wealth of the richest person equals the annual income of 150,000 families. That's what we have at our house. And finally, if we talk about Barcelona, in Barcelona – a study that was done on the barrels of Barcelona, the differences of the barrels of Barcelona –, if we compare Pedralbes and Torre Baró, the difference of the family income between these two barrels oscil·la between 241_per_cent and 38_per_cent, and the life expectancy of these two barrels is eleven years of difference. In Barcelona, 11 years later, the people who see Torre Baró who see them in Pedralbes live in Barcelona. This is social injustice. We do not believe, therefore, that we can maintain, accept, this increment of inequality and that we can continue, because if we do not seem to this tendency we will not put up with the poor and we will not put up with the injustices. I'd like to move on to some significant data from Catalonia. Who are those elements that make us live closer to the crisis during these eight years in what path of crisis? I'll talk about four themes. One, the labor market. It has already been made reference to the later labor reforms, which, in the face of greater productivity and competitiveness, have generated..., I don't know if they have generated this productivity, but what they have generated is structural duality between stable workers and precarious workers. Work places have been destroyed, but the precariousness of the occupation is very clear, it is every time greater, and also greater in women, in women who suffer the wage gap, who suffer partial contracts, low occupational levels and poorly paid jobs, especially those related to the whole subject of healing work. Precarization – four data – is a low quality of contracting. Undefined contracts have dropped 60_per_cent in these years. Increment of self-employed workers, who are false..., false..., failures. Many of the autonomous workers they do are trying to get out of already desperate situations, but many of them are losing the capitalization of their trek. Another contracting model, part-time contracting, has increased by 42_per_cent. Wage damage. The fall in wages in 2013 was 1.5_percent in middle terms, but in lower wages it was 14_per_cent, and in new contracts, 40_per_cent. So the people who are now hired have under 40_per_cent lower than they had before. And also, it's been named before, the workers with these subs don't get over the poor girl's outburst. And, therefore, we have in Catalonia a high number of workers who are poor and who cannot live decently with their wages. And, last but not least, in matters of contractation, we should also take into account what type of contract. Today..., a social entity told me: "We are hired by people for hours and days. And that's a dynamic that never happened. And a lot of people take in black half the hours they work, because businesses don't pay full social security and only secure them for a few hours. Faced with this situation, people are asking: what are we building for the future? We build the poor of the future, we build a town that will be poor to its old age, because its work history will be of the past, of the long-lasting of the past, of many sporadic contracts. In short, a series of factors that the only one they do at the end is that they won't have a decent thought to live decently in their old age. And that's what our economic and social system does, and that's what it does with everybody's knowledge. We need to change, we need to rethink how these circumstances can be changed, because it is quite unsustainable. There's a theme that I don't think it's said enough, but it's... at least among us, among entities, many times we copy it, because we work with vulnerable people, with difficulty in entering the ordinary labor market. And we know that not everyone will work in the future, not everyone will work. We know that. There are people with training who can't find it, but people without training, with a lot of social problems, won't find work. I think I need to think about this in a serious way and not try to ignore it, but address the situation. We'd have to be more creative to give answers to those people who find themselves in the dark and who may never work, to those families who are all unemployed and who don't get into their homes with no money or income. It can't be remembered that 2015 only 55_per_cent of the atolls receive a protection. So the rest doesn't have any kind of protection for the weather. In short, therefore, we find ourselves in a situation... although they tell us that the economy works, that the economy is fine, the reality of the day to day of our entities... is that it is not as well as we would like. And it's true, the time has come down, and we're not very happy. But, did you go down now because it was Nadal or on a point-by-point basis? In Catalonia, for example, we are in a 17_per_cent. I think that's good news. In short, we are talking about poverty and inequality. We have the AROPE tax, which is recently used, because it is the sum of three indexes, is the sum of the index that explains the poor, the sum of the index of the poor's shield, is the sum of the index of the severe material deprivation and the low intensity of work in a person or a family. This index, in Catalonia, has increased. It's inferior to the Spanish State. But 20_per_cent is at 26_per_cent, when Europe is at 23_per_cent. So we're not at the level we want or want. When we talk about poverty, last but not least, I mean we always talk about money, right? , economics. But the poor is something more than resourceful. The poor want to say poor relational factors, cultural factors, family, formatius, labor factors. And if we don't look at the poor in this bunch of things, we're wrong about how we treat the poor. And the poor thing, if I say it's not just tickets... we should also bear in mind that we have to contemplate who the expenses of each family are. Because one can hold a hundred and if he doesn't have any expense he's rich, but if one tea cent and he has a five-cent logger he's very poor, isn't he? Therefore, when we speak of poverty, we speak of this complexity that is the poverty: entrances, exits and the whole context of the person. We believe, therefore, that it is time to change, to change the look on the poor, to change the look on the economy we have. We need to think of a more solid economy, more social, more for the common good, more respectful, for the new generations. And, ultimately, I believe that the government and this Parliament have a lot of opportunities to change... and build this society that we all want. I'll talk about education. We have very clear all the Convention of Infants, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights... Everyone recognizes the right to education. But why? Education is fundamental, education is the element that can and will allow... to develop and become a free, responsible, participatory person in society. It is also the way that the person is fully subject to rights and dues, because he is aware, he is able. Our education model is a good education model. But, despite this statement, I believe that we have at last suffered from times when, above all for dropping out of school, that in Spain, and in Catalonia, even though with less importance..., but we have suffered and suffered an important school failure. We are at 22_percent school failure, when Europe is at 14. We have to fight to put in the measures so that there is no school drop-out. Because these children who leave the schools are precisely those who are victims, normally, of the poor child, and are the protagonists of the poor when they are adults. They can't leave anyone behind. It's about making an important investment in education. There are no economic benefits, because this instrument, education, is the best for prevention and investment in the future of the citizenry. There are three or four paradigmatic themes that are always spoken of when it comes to education, and they have improved, but it would be time, perhaps on this occasion, to see how we can overcome them at all. One is the subject of bressol schools. The Bressol school has always said that it is an element that helps the fairness and development of infants. And the bressol schools are for many prohibitive families, because they have to pay some levels that they can't, they don't have enough tickets. We have to try to save this barrier for some families. There's also been a lot of talk about eating scholarships, and I think it's a topic that many times – eating and other types, material and so on – we have to try to avoid percentages. It's true; well, maybe not everyone needs the same anymore. But what I can assure you is that there are people who are given a 50_per_cent scholarship, but their economic level does not allow them to pay the other 50_per_cent. And, for example, in eating fears, stop going to the eating because they can't pay, and sometimes they don't want to say, that they can't pay this 50_per_cent. We make a total scholarship for all the people on a few themes, like the one with the feeding alleys. And, in this sense, there has been a theme that many entities have represented, including organizing some beggars; for young people or children, children, who leave the institute with an intensive day and who have gone without the social beggar. I was told by some entities: "We've arranged a meal for these children. These are, therefore, the lines that we, like the third sector, have reflected and would like to ask. A public school, of quality, diverse, inclusive, free and universal access. And don't forget, and that's very important to me, support and support to families. Because education isn't just school. Education is more than school. Education is lifelong learning; education is the family's educational capacity, how we can help families; education is how we educate the family, how we find new alternatives to these..., there is a series..., how we find second opportunities for these people. All these elements are education. We can't just focus on school. Third point. I would like to talk about the right to housing, the right to decent housing for everyone. I think the exercise of this right is recognized for everyone, it's obvious. But I think the economic reality of the country in the last few years... we lived in a real estate dumpster, and I don't think anyone thought it would go away, this dumpster. And at a certain point we found ourselves with a very serious problem on the issue of habitating. Everyone knows: Catalonia in 2015 had a 17_percent mortgage execution. Our country has been one of the most significant in these executions. I think it's something we should never talk about again, this one. It's true, it's diminished, but I need to eliminate it. He's changed. The mortgages before they were... the payment was... for not paying the mortgage, and now it's for not paying the mortgage. The loggers, for which family, represent 40_percent of their tickets; obviously, up a time that does not pay. There is another issue that we cannot disconnect from the habitat, and that is the whole issue of the right and the guarantee to the basic sub-administrations. I think we have Law 24/15, that we need to deploy all the rules to make this urgency effective. Whether it's about housing and poor energy folded, and solving it forever, because, let's say it or not, housing is a marginal element, it's an element that gives insecurity, that prevents the emancipation of young people. In short, we have to stop this reality, and we have to negotiate with the bank, we have to recover empty floors, we have to have a chance of a greater number of social floors, because everyone can live in a decent habitat. The last topic I wanted to talk about was the performance system, which I think can be improved, and, above all, guaranteed income. We've been talking about this for a long time: it's urgent today to make a model change; first, the whole performance system. It is true that many services have been created to the extent that there have been requests, needs, and this has given the result of a system in which there are many services, very partial, many of small amounts and no joints between them. This would be better because we would optimize resources, because we would avoid all the crossroads of many people who have to go to different places, windows, to ask for a little help. And, as far as the benefit is concerned, the most important thing is minimum income. The minimum income for insertion for years has been the last resort we had to help and to give a benefit to people who did not have resources. A couple of years ago we had a really hard time and we haven't recovered the 2010 levels yet. We are, therefore, in a situation in which I believe that it is necessary, once and for all, in this Parliament, that it is decided which is the answer that gives to an article of the State, Article 24.3, which recognizes the right – we are not talking about charity, we are talking about a right of citizenship – that everyone can have a minimum entrance for a dignified life. We know that there are not enough resources, and that is why we are aware, and therefore we should look for ways, whether the ILP is guaranteed income or is a minimum income different from what we have, but we should look for a solution. And maybe I need to do it at stages, at stages. Maybe we need to think about who are the families that have no recourse, who have children or who have dependent people, and that these are the priorities; and maybe progressively there could be everyone who doesn't have a few tickets. This is a subject that I think we need to resolve. But I would like to point out that minimum income is not just a benefit. For us, for the sector, minimum income is a resource to help people change, transform their lives, improve their skills; somehow, to be responsible, to be more autonomous. There is a whole process of these people; that they are the social workers, the social servants, who collect all this pocket, which we cannot forget. We just don't solve the problem by giving money. And, lastly, on the issue of guaranteed income, I think that there is one important thing to take into account: there are people who will never work, because of their circumstances– before I have said it–, we should look at, at the article the income that follows, as we ensure that these people also have this income assured. And, finally, I would like to make some final reflections in the sense that there is something that I do not know will be interpreted well, but I would like to say it: we did not just like to talk about'social emergencies'. Social emergencies mean we're talking about dealing with the emergencies we have today. We do not ask for this; this, of course, we ask for it, but we ask for more. What we're asking for is a change in social policies. We want transformative social policies, we want social policies that do not solve the issue of emergencies and shock plans, but what we want is a profound change. A few new policies that are more integrative, more preventive, with a vision of the future, focused on the person, and, above all, that take over the citizenry. Obviously, so – already to list – we would want a change in the social and economic model – I know it won't come out of this room, I know, but let's think about it, what we can do, each or every one can do something. We want predisposing and redistributive policies to act on structural causes that generate inequality. We want a welfare state that guarantees universal education and universal access to health, housing, social services, as well as the rights of citizens. We want a protection system that guarantees the right of all citizens to a few vital minimums, and a better, integrated management of social services. We want to give priority to social policies and not accept the sacramentalization of the reduction of the public deficit imposed on European states. We would like to establish a fair and equitable taxation system, which will redistribute wealth and guarantee sufficient resources to ensure this life worthy of everyone. We all have that right. The only way to achieve this is to have a more effective taxation: to recover some taxes, such as donations and estates, as they were before the crisis, or to fight against the exclusion, against tax fraud. Only then can we have the resources we need to build this new policy. We want a more free country; a country, for that reason, where the welfare is for everyone; where there are the same opportunities for everyone and everyone can have this full life. As a society and as members of a platform, we feel responsible for fighting the poor and unequal. And we're open to dialogue, collaboration, and all the effort we need to walk towards these goals of equity, which we're sure all of us want, and therefore unite. Finally, I would like to make the last request – the last request – to you, honourable Members: this debate is not a motion of disencis. We firmly believe that the House will commit to it and trust that there will be an effort to reach a consensus for a just cause. Because we have to solve this issue, which goes far and wide. And, the other day, rereading documents from the Social and Family Policy Advisor, the Capsif, I saw a fragment, which I will read to finish my interview. This document spoke precisely of the poor and affirmed the following: "It is necessary to start a reflection around the model of a more inclusive and also more responsible citizenry, the import of social values, social compromise, as factors for the development of the person, to build a more cohesive society. And he adds: "The poor continue to question us because it is much more incisive than speeches, since it is about the suffering of people. And as a result, the government and the political class should urgently identify and empower us to fight against this difficult reality, hoping that in a reasonable way we can dispose of this society that we all want. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.7.0	After these first interventions, we will now proceed with the intervention of the President of the Generality and the other Government Councillors. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.8.0	Many honourable Speakers of Parliament, Councillors, Councillors, Vice-Presidents, Members of Parliament, representatives of the entities of the third sector, Mrs Teresa Crespo, I begin the intervention in this debate on behalf of the Government: an intervention that I want to set up, and that the joint Government we have set up, with the participation of the different members who make up the execution that we have, that they have, a greater responsibility in social policies, that are the subject matter of this debate. While social cohesion, the struggle against inequalities and the better welfare of citizens is a common goal of all and each of the departments, we also want to focus interventions on those councillors and councillors who have major skills in these areas. So I inform you that after my intervention, and as has already been said, the Vice-President and Councillor of Economy and History will intervene, first of all, as responsible for the economic area of the Government, and that he will give us a precise description of the conditions in which the Government has to meet its main priority – its main priority – is to say, attention to people and their rights, and, above all, to the objectives that we seek to shield social spending in the proper premises, because, effectively, we also want to have the proper premises. After that, the Councillor of the Presidency, as responsible for the social area, who will make us a rest, also detailed, of all the actions due to completion in compliment, of a band, of the commitments acquired, and will, above all, expose the essential elements of the social plan that this Government already owes under the arm of the first day of its birth. Next, government advisors, public administrations and housing will intervene... In this case, she will explain to us, Councillor Borràs, which approaches the compromise to ensure that no family has violated its right to a decent habitat, and will detail to us the actions due to end and planned to complete with the compromise that a person or family in a situation of social vulnerability is cut off from the basic sub-administrations by default. The Councillor of Education will then speak, which will focus, above all, on how to combat inequalities through the education system and in what way, and despite the scarcity of public resources, priority has been given to students at risk of social exclusion and to centres of maximum complexity. The Councillor for Work, Social Affairs and Families will also speak, and it is obvious that the foundation stone on which a society with the capacity to meet needs rests is occupation. So the counselor will explain to us the wide social abst that your department has: embrace all the policies that you have to see directly with the occupation, and also, logically, those that more directly, as it could not be in any other way, affect people's attention. And, finally, the Health Counselor, who will place emphasis on the reason for which he must continue to shield the public character of our health system and as the guarantee of the right to salvation has been instrumental in the fight against inequalities. That said, I would like to make a brief reference to the interventions that preceded me. First of all, and thank her also for her intervention to Mrs. Teresa Crespo, representing the social entities, telling her that we collect her diagnosis in all its extension, in that we clearly agree; in that, surely, the interventions of the councillors and the councillors can kill, but in any case, I would like to reiterate to her the willingness to find points of confluence, to work together to give answer, which is what we have come to do here, to give answers after an analysis, to make a diagnosis and to have an intensive debate. Finally, to respond to the needs of people who go through it badly and who suffer the most from the consequences of the economic crisis, which, as you said, very well, these consequences persist, and in some cases have worsened. The search for the agreement and the work together with the social entities, you will all see that it is a clear element and a referent of the action of this government. In relation to the proposing groups, let's say, first of all, that we believe that this is indeed an opportune debate – it is a very opportune debate – that we agree on many of the objectives, basically, in those that consist of improving social policies, and we believe that there is scope to be and honestly agreed. There's a margin if we're moving over, all of us, on the line of good predisposition and realism, which I understand in their interventions and which I also want to thank. In this sense, therefore, I would like to expose what seems to me to be what everyone who is waiting for us from this debate, and who I believe that their interventions have identified and placed on the correct line of what seems to me to be that people are waiting for this debate, beyond the discrepancies, which, obviously, will be on the table and will be subject to debate, and intensive debate. Don't fool anyone. Let us tell each other the truth. Surely there is no truth, but there are many truths. Let us tell each other the truths both in describing the problems – that here, surely, we will agree easily – as in the formulation of effective answers, that is what we have come to do here and that is what the people are waiting for. Says in another way, that we do not make politics easy, that we do not get embarrassed in that way that you tend a certain policy and that would cause a deep disappointment to so many people that you have hope that your living conditions will improve. It's not such a utopian hope, it's a very serene, very real, very possible hope: to improve their living conditions. You all know, by direct knowledge – and here there are no ideological frontiers, but by direct knowledge – that there are many people who are going through it very badly and with whom they know that they can't play. That's why I ask them – we ask for all the pleas, I apply the first one – that we have an intense, naturally critical debate, which will certainly require and rigorous in the presentation and disposition. They ask us to take examples, for example, of professionals or social entities who must meet the direct needs of those who suffer from them in the first person, and who, although they have the right to demand more resources, the right to have more media or, even so, they can question policies because they find them insufficient, or because they believe them wrong, or because they have a legitimate and legitimate ideological prevention, that, despite this, these people, these professionals in the world of salvation, education, social services and these entities, all without exception, help to endure the social protection system with a demand, a rigour and an intensity that we have to take for each time. It is true that the economic crisis has had and has devastating effects for people and certain population groups, and that these effects persist despite the change in the trend of macroeconomic indicators. That's right, and we won't lose sight of it, and they'll notice the Vice President's interventions, the Councillors and the Councillor. But it is not certain that the Government – and they will also prove it in the interventions – neither this nor the previous ones, did not volunteer nor made efforts to deal, as at least, with these effects. Of course, we must go further, we cannot resign ourselves to pal·liar, but we must effectively prevent and start a course in which the model of social policy is. As in the past few years, such a high percentage of the resources available for social policies had never been allocated. In this case, more than 70_percent of the Generality's assumption that it has allowed us to substantially increase the contributions in certain key programs such as minimum income for insertion, which in 2015 reached 185_million euros, the highest assumption of the benefit; the mensador scholarships, 46,3_million euros in the course 14-15, with coverage of the hundred_percent of the mensador scholarship for the student in heavy social risk and the forecast to arrive at this course at 55_million euros, or housing policies, which we have gone from 50_million euros to 2012 to about 85-2015 and support more than 70,000 families. I, respect the indicators on poverty levels, effectively, are today higher, than at the beginning of the crisis. They're not much more, so they don't satisfy us. Because I want to say that we suffer from structural poor levels also at times of goodness, circumstance that unfortunately made them invisible, and therefore we have to give an answer, an answer that attacks the structural structure of this poor and not the peaks that the economic crisis can draw in statistics. It is not acceptable now, nor was it acceptable then, that we had the resources to fill the country with pavilions, roundabouts and urbanisations. We can bring this debate to the ground of political partisan confrontation – I think this will not happen, I think the proposing groups have been willing to make it not so, and we, like the Government, will already work together from the first moment on – or we can think about it, which I think we will do, as we jointly face these challenges and seek a great deal of agreement between the Government, parliamentary groups and social entities, which allow us to make possible proposals for action to solve this problem. I believe that there will be a wide margin of consensus and I trust that the conclusions that we come to at the end of the debate will comfort us with regard to the objective and the expectations that we have all folded into this debate. As you well know, we believe that at these times, given the antecedents of the last decades and especially of the last years, the only way we now have to get to the bottom to have the tools and resources needed to strengthen our welfare state – that this one thinks it will be a cross-clamation of all groups, to strengthen the welfare state – goes precisely to have a state, a state that we want to admire in the most advanced European countries, such as Austria and Denmark. And not just from the economic point of view, but significantly from the social point of view. Catalonia generates enough resources to be able to have policies, coverage and social services much more powerful and far more effective than those it does not have now. At present, self-involvement, competition regression, and taxation on the part of the State do not only limit the resources we have at our expense – the fiscal deficit – but our ability to act. We could find a lot of examples, that way. I will quote just a few of them so that they can take a good note and be present at the length of the debate: the fiscal deficit of Catalonia, 15,000_millions in 2011, roughly equivalent to all expenses in health, social welfare and the teaching of that same year. Catalonia is the second autonomous community in providing tax resources to the autonomous financing system, but it is the drawing in resources per capita discards – the second in contribution, the drawing in resources per capita discards. If the impact of the cost of living in each community is taken into account, this still gets worse, because then Catalonia falls to the fourteenth position. In the deployment of the Law of Dependency, despite the commitment of equal distribution between the State and the Generality of Public Finance – equal distribution between the State and the Generality – in 2015, the State allocated 185_million euros; the Generality, 894– 185, 894–, about five times more. If the Generality had allocated the same resources as the State, 65_percent of the people would have been left out of this attention. Another one. More than fifteen years ago, the State failed to complete the sentences of the Constitutional Court – yes, yes, the State failed to complete the sentences of the Constitutional Court, it sounds strange, but that is so – and, concretely, in the land that hurts people the most. For example, at the territorial management of 0.7_percent of the IRPF for social purposes. A claim by the Government of the Generalitat since 1998 and which involves the Catalan social entities, and which implies that it stops, precisely, more than 20_million euros recaptated in Catalonia. At the same time, the State has brought to the Constitutional Court measures and legislative actions taken by the Government of Catalonia to respond to the needs of the citizenry with less resources, such as the Energy Poor Decree, and, in turn, has introduced restrictive measures, such as the Royal Decree of the year 2012, which limited the universality of health care. The Government has advanced for three years the necessary funds to ensure the socio-occupational integration of persons with disabilities in special work centres; more than 33_million euros each year, and this year 2016 will repeat the same situation. The State Fund for Integration and Integration was cancelled, which meant €43.5 million for Catalonia, and the State will unilaterally manage the new Fund for Asylum, Migration and Integration created for the European Union. Okay. This list could be unfinished and we'll leave it here, which seems to me that's enough because they do a little bit to the idea of who are the attitudes of each school. But allow me a reflection: that list is an exhibition of the fact that the attitude of the Government of the State in front of Catalonia, which means in front of the people of Catalonia – I have not lost sight of it – and their skills have direct effects on people and, especially, on people who suffer the most. And before this situation in Catalonia we have tried everything, but all our lives have been closed, from the feeling of the State to the door to the negotiation of the fiscal pact through the refusal to a referendum of which we have not had any obvious exhibitions, precisely these past weeks in the debate on investment in the Congress of Deputies. So, the process for the independent state is the only way out of a situation of blockade and involvement that ends up affecting the people of this country. Independence is not the miracle – it is no miracle, which I have made clear – nor alone does it serve for nothing if we do not have it in our possession. Be independent to have the same resources or to have the same policies that these resources allow us to do not serve as a resource. We want a State to decide our social policies, the social policies that wander in the line of independent countries of demographic and economic measures like those of Catalonia and that are already making them clearly different – clearly different – from those that the current political framework allows us to achieve in Catalonia. Therefore, this process is a way to give response to the most basic needs of the people and so we explained it to the Junts electoral program for the Yes, and in this same line I expressed to me the past 9 genera at the time of submetering to vote from this chamber the government program that was just approved in the investiture debate. He said, then, that the first priority – the first priority, I say, because, as this will come out, it will be feared that we do not have clear priorities – the first priority was to make a country more just, fairer, more prepared, more cult, safer and healthier. And I'm going to detail a series of priorities in the fight against the poverty of minimum income for inclusion, protection of the right to housing, health, education, support for families, shelter for refugees, access to culture, social concertation and creation of the Catalan Agency of Social Security, which, of course, we are going to deal with in this plenary today. In these divided months that remain – in fact, they are less; we are talking about divided months because we are not leaving the mindset to determine who is the time-working space of this government – we cannot hold our own. Actually, we haven't. Since the first day we have started working with two phone lines. In the first place, the social xoc plan offers for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Sí to the CUP and that the Government assumes as its own. I will not go into detailing its actions, because they will have an opportunity to do so at the length of the debate, but in the fact that it involves a compromise and a very remarkable step forward at the time of addressing the needs of people who are experiencing a more complicated situation. We need to apply this social welfare plan and we need the precautionary decisions that allow this social welfare plan to be made possible. Secondly, the development of the State structures needed to deploy the full powers of the State in social policies. As you know, since the last legislature, it has been working on the development of these state structures. In the social sphere, precisely, the great instrument to develop in the own months is the Catalan Agency for Social Protection, the agency to become a public agency where all the services of the Government are integrated and which must be made easier – even more – the relationship between the people you need and the power of action of the administrations. At this agency's band, we will also have to deal with legislative measures that make it possible to dispose of the legal mark of the new state. It is the case of the law promoting personal autonomy, the Catalan law of international adoption, the law of creation of the Agency of Migration of Catalonia, etc. Or articulate an energy model that is conducive to the creation of the Catalan Energy Agency in order to overcome the inefficiencies of the Spanish energy system, which also, as in the case of some type of poor, also threatens to be chronic, these deficiencies. I refer to this energy model because it has a close relationship with the creation of a structure that guarantees basic consumption to all those people and families that social services believe are in a poor energy situation. There are just a few examples of these structures that we need to go through these months to set up this new state more just, fairer and more supportive than we all want. Finally, we have two lines of adventure. We have the full route marked, we are clear that the best response to the social needs of people living in Catalonia goes through the provision of the resources and the appropriate instruments; therefore, I insist, of the state. But short term we lack a phone tool to move forward, which is said to be the assumptions: the assumptions of 2016. We have the compromise to pull the shoal forward; they've heard it, and they'll hear it again and again. Let us hope that this House will also allow us, through the motions for resolutions, to agree on useful and applicable measures. But to get them out of the way, we need to approve the premise. And that is why we also expect the compromise of the groups of this chamber, which we will certainly find wide areas of consensus in the diagnosis, and certainly in some of the formulations of response to the problems that will describe this diagnosis. I believe that they owe it to the people of this country, to whom we represent, a debate and rigorous approaches and feasible and realistic proposals. And when I speak of realism I mean that we are clear that more than 70 per cent, as I have already said, of the assumption that we are already destined for social policies; therefore, there is little room to reduce the remaining 30 per cent. And now, we're just more conditioned than ever by our situation in the Spanish State. We are very clear about what horizon we want, which is a horizon of ambition and no renunciation and no renunciation. But we also need to be clear about what situation we are coming from, when we find ourselves and what conditions we have. It is from this perspective, from this recommendation to have a commitment and to have the will... that we also have the same responsibility now. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.9.0	Next, the words of Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.10.0	President, President, colleagues of the Government, deputies, representatives of the entities of the third sector, citizens, all folds... Children born in 2015 and children born this year 2016 will finish their mandatory teaching stage, if they do not change the laws to respect, around the year 2031. It is the year in which the greatest hidden generation will retire to the history of Germany. They will leave the university, those who do it, approximately around 2040, which is the year in which the greatest generation of citizens ever born in the history of Catalonia will retire. They will finish their work phase, if not changing the labor laws, approximately the year 2085. And most of them, if they didn't change the expectations of the life expectancy that we currently have, would know the 21st century. The decisions that we make here today or that we make in any institutional sphere in Catalonia, Europe, in the world, are decisions that have an immense, almost dizzying transcendence. The scars that are generated in the compulsory educational period, for example in the abandonment of this teaching, or that are produced in the beginning of the stage in the labour market to young people who are found to be at a time in an abominable percentage, are scars that they will accompany, to these young people, to the length of their entire life. It is therefore clear that the decisions we make every day, the decisions we make in this Parliament, have an influence and have extremely important consequences for the future of our society. These data are especially interesting – even so it seems to us – if we take into account that at these times, at the present time, before any type of social redistribution of income, we would find ourselves with some levels of poverty, under the outburst of poverty, which practically amount to 50_per_cent of our population. After the mechanisms of redistribution of income, of the various mechanisms of redistribution of income, at these times, this 50_per_cent of the population that is found under the shield of the poor is situated around 20_per_cent. It is obvious, therefore, that at these times, despite all the terrible unfavourable circumstances, fortunately there is an accumulation of social capital, of economic capital, of institutional capital, which still allows us to face some of the challenges we face. If it were not so, if it were not for these mechanisms of social guarantee, of redistribution of income, which in part are the result of the effort made for the same generations, from which they benefit or are made for the previous generations, the situation would be even more difficult. This must fix our attention before the fact that, at the present time, these mechanisms of accumulation, these mechanisms of social welfare, these mechanisms of social reserve are clearly in danger. And it has been explained many times – explained Mrs. Teresa Crespo with great precision –: the levels of high altitude, despite the fact that they have fallen in time and that they have fallen fortunately in a significant way, but the levels of high altitude remain high and determine that the entrances of good part of our families, the family entrances, the resources available are extraordinarily limited. I am also, but – and this is a bad news – also between a large part of the occupied population who, despite being busy and being remunerated for their work, is remunerating a remuneration that is under the care of the poor. It is also particularly worrying in the realm of false autonomies, or it is especially worrying in those people who find themselves in the dark and who, at least at the same time as the current expectations, will be reintegrating into the labour market. These people who find themselves in a very bad situation at the present time because they are either in the middle of the day or working with a few tickets under the street of the poor, or they find themselves in a situation of false autonomies, even more likely to suffer the consequences of not having pensions, of very dignified retirement mechanisms. They are poor in the present and will be poor in the future. This erodes the resilience that any society has, and ours, before the difficulties that may be encountered in the future. That is why it is so relevant to any of the decisions we make in these areas: in the field of teaching, in the field of the fight against school failure, in the field of the incorporation of young people into the labour market, in the field of the reincorporation of long-term unemployment, in the protection of false self-governments, in the protection of those occupied who are receiving remuneration under the care of the poor. Many of these actions, many of these actions that we would have to take are favorable... – and they are also damaging – some of them are favored by an economic context that, despite all the international uncertainties, despite all the difficulties with which we face ourselves and of which you are overwhelmingly familiar, despite all the evils they have a positive behavior. Our economy, the Catalan economy, grew the year passed to a rate of 3.4_per_cent: it is the highest rate of the last decade; the last quarter of 2015 grew to a rate of 4.1_per_cent. The reduction of the temperature, the month of fever, has been the highest reduction in the last twenty years in a _month of fever. Therefore, there are elements that invite a certain hope. What explains these clearly elevated growth rates over the middle of the European Union and clearly over the middle of the euro area? What does that explain? I have explained the capacity of our exports, of an economy which, despite all the bad and bad conditions, demonstrates a certain competitive capacity, or a remarkable competitive capacity. Another element that favors this is the increase in the recaptancy derived from tourism. Another element clearly favourable and clear above the medium of growth is in the capture of foreign direct investment and, therefore, in all those aspects that are linked to the foreign sector: exports, tourism, foreign investment. The engine of this growth is also to a large extent, at the cost of all this, the increase in domestic demand. An increase in the internal demand that is..., that must be met, that must overcome all the difficulties to which we refer a moment ago: an index of heights, levels of work pay for busy people who are under the umbrella of the outburst of the poor... And, despite this, there is an increase in domestic demand that is produced in great measure by a very intense effort, and often very painful, by unsettling, by the debt of family economies. But this, too, is a tremendously unfair reality, and there has also been a reference in Mrs Crespo's intervention. And there are the income differences that she quoted: in some barrels of Barcelona, they are in a ratio of 1 to 7; in the middle of Catalonia, a little lower, but tremendously high, in a ratio of 1 to 6,5. Therefore, it is evident that our society presents elements of insufficiency in the internal redistribution of income. Do we, our society, the joint venture of our economy generate enough income to meet these needs? The answer is 'yes, obviously yes, fortunately yes: our economy generates enough resources and should generate enough fiscal resources to be able to cope with all these challenges. Unfortunately, this effort of our economy, this effort of our society, this fiscal effort, is not at the disposal of the joint venture of our society. And that explains a good part of this contradiction between an economy that presents positive symptoms, even very positive in comparison to the international context and presents our immediate surroundings, and, in change, some terrible social deficiencies. Which elements erode, which elements prevent, which elements act as subtractors of this tax effort placed on the service of our company? One of them, well known to all of you, is the tax deficit. There are no others, indeed, and they also deserve our full attention. All those elements that can be improved in the criteria of spending on the assumptions of our public institutions, too – also. The fight against the fraud, too; the fight against the tax fraud in particular, also. And, obviously, to make it possible, we need a tax agency that is responsible for the joint fiscal effort of the citizens, because, if not, they cannot fight the tax fraud of those taxes that they do not control. Does that have to be an excuse why you don't take on your responsibilities in those areas where you already exercise your competence? It is obvious that it can never be an excuse, and therefore an effort by this government in the fight against tax fraud, which is likely to control it, because it is the taxes that are close to it or are given to it. This includes, of course, a firm compromise around the fight against corruption, which is an element that triggers the costs of information and control of any economy, and which, beyond the moral evil it produces, also produces an economic and, therefore, a social evil. These commitments, the government has assumed them and tries to manage them every day. The concrete difficulties are also well known to all of you, and occupy headlines and news headlines. And in some evidence around which it seems to me that there is a broad consensus in this chamber. And, if that's the case, it's good that these consents are viewed as often as possible in order to be able to correct it. One example: do you feel that if the European Central Bank places its credit, places its monetary offer at 0,05_per_cent, these same resources are made available, on the part of the State, to sub-state administrations at 0,834, at a price seven times higher? If that wasn't so – and I understand that everyone agrees that it shouldn't be like this, and if everyone agrees that it shouldn't be like this, it would be good for everyone to express themselves in this line – it would have a greater presuppositional availability of around 380_million euros, more than all the resources compromised in the social security plan. Is this social work plan acceptable? Is this social shock plan financable? The answer is, obviously, yes. Based on the global presuppositional context in which we find ourselves, and which to a great extent sees us, still, imposed. I give another example that seems to me to also generate a broad consensus, and that I hope is to show every time we have an opportunity. If the financing of sub-state administrations is based on a so-called "beast", which is calculated systematically at the bottom–systematically, any time–; if this calculation at the bottom of this beast involves a positive liquidation, according to the Spanish Government, of some about 6,000_million euros to the Spanish State, in the case of the Government of Catalonia, 1,400_million euros corresponding to this badly calculated beast of 2014, and, if it is certain that this beast, as the Spanish Government acknowledges, is to be wound up two years later, which it felt that, if a part of this badly calculated beast corresponds to the generation of 2014 and a part in February 2014 and a part in March 2014, the liquidation is produced in July 2016 or July 2016? And it is obvious that it is not the same – it is not the same – at the time of facing this debate to have or not to have these 1,400_million euros. That it's not a demand attached to the king, that it's just the finding of what the same Spanish government recognizes and explains every day. So, if that's the case, I understand that we all agree – I understand that we all agree – without exception, to explain it in these terms. And I understand that we all agree that it is not the same to have these 1,400_million euros that it does not have. I understand that we all agree. The same applies to the 380_million euros that are the equivalent of the difference between 0.05_percent of the interests that the European Central Bank places on the market and the difference between 0.834... The Government of Catalonia, at the same time, and since this particular consultancy, and since the Consulting of Enterprise, and since the Consulting of Work and Social Affairs in particular, has to help stimulate our economic activity, because it is the primary mechanism of income redistribution, it is a primary mechanism of social justice. This must be done through the RIS3CAT programme. In this case, we are talking about some EUR 800 million of European funds to come between now and 2020 and to be converted into an effective investment of EUR 1,600 million with all the multiplier factor that this has on economic activity. And in this, obviously, we're working. Also, at the time of facilitating the participation of the world of business in the Juncker Pla. The Juncker platform involves €315,000_million for the European Union's joint venture, and here we have an unfettered possibility of access, let's say, and it will depend on these projects, and therefore on this participation, on this private and public partnership. It also corresponds to us, a major..., a perfectability in the mechanisms of control of the efficiency of the expenditure, also, we have explained it on various occasions, and an appreciation, that will have to be joint in this chamber and that will be connected, to a great extent, to the debate of assumptions, around the taxation. You know that this government has... in this sense, it has set some priority, one of them is around environmental taxes: they are associated with the law against the climate change that the government has already introduced. Or, for example, at a more effective time some tax aspects already exist, such as, for example, the tax on tourist establishments. Or the implementation, at last, of the tax on bank deposits, which you know is also blocked, in this case, as in so many others, by decisions made by the Spanish Government. The reduction of the debt service is, or may at least be, another mechanism for increasing the presuppositional availability for social policies. This is not only because of this type of interest that, at these times, from the 1st generation, is placed at 0.834, but also because of the renegotiation with those financial entities, mainly financial entities resident in the Spanish State, around structured nature credits, and it is a job that this Government is also doing. Finally, a compromise that we have already made publicly before, but which seems to me to be a good thing to reiterate here: the government's commitment to shield those parties that have a social character. In other words, to ensure that those parties which in the assumptions are entitled to social expenditure, end up in social parties, end up in social commitments, even if, for the reason that it was, therefore, it is not possible to allocate or not end up in the social security that was provided for in the assumption. Therefore, all the money that is in the budget is destined for social parties, we will ensure that in the execution they are linked to these social parties. All these, or good part of these commitments, good part of these, good part of these possibilities are associated... – good part, not all, good part –, are obviously associated with the adoption of assumptions. And, therefore, also, all the will of this Government to negotiate the approval of these assumptions, to obtain the maximum possible consent of all the groups that are doing well to approve, according to, also, the conditions explained by the president in the previous intervention. I, for our part, sure – sure – that it will not stay. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.11.0	Next, there is the words of Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.12.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, all the people who accompany us, I continue with the intervention on behalf of the Government reiterating our commitment to this state of welfare as a guarantee of social rights and our firm will to strengthen it, feel fully aware of the impact that the economic crisis has on a very important part of our citizenship, but also that this crisis does not affect everyone alike, so that we do not accept the poor as an inevitable phenomenon – this is also what Mrs Teresa Crespo has told us on many occasions – and we cannot take the risk of having a society every day more dual and polarized, where the starting situation is an impediment to economic and social progress. And the government acts, it is clear that it acts, despite the fact that its possibilities for action are limited, and that we have often found this consideration missing in the diagnosis of the situation: the recognition that we lack a tax system, in certain aspects a standard_framework and instruments that allow us, precisely, to focus on where these inequalities originate. It has been said before: the national agenda and the social agenda are indestriable, and that is why we understand that the best way we can dispose of is a good state to put political power and economic power at the service of social progress. We want to place enormously in value the effort and the sum of commitments that in the past few years have been able to last from the local world– gatherings, district councils, parliaments, the third social sector and other institutions– with the Government, as well as the efforts of professionals, of those who are in the first line, of social services, education, health care... Because only from this shared diagnosis and the rape work is, effectively, possible to fight against the poor in all its manifestations and avoid its chronification. Let us face this debate as an opportunity, again, to take a turn: the economic revival, the better of social policies, touching from a few to the ground with reality and with the difficulties we have, but also with the will to agree on measures that give response to people's needs. And not only from the urgency to reverse certain situations, to which we refer, but also to face structural changes that help us to define a more just and cohesive country. But it is clear that there is an urgent need for immediate response, and this is the sense of the social security plan that this Government wants to take on and develop in its totality; but it also needs to ensure that a greater social justice is achieved, which requires much deeper changes, which go beyond plans and measures, let us say, conventional ones. We have a precedent for what this parliamentary debate does – the proposing groups have referred to it – a debate that took place on March 2014, from which we certainly have all of us and those who were watching, but now we are close to retrying it from their responsibilities. Clearly, the government's is continuing to make efforts and work because the resources that we already generate can give a much more effective response than the one that has been given so far. Like other countries in Europe and the world, Catalonia has suffered severely from the effects of a long and profound economic crisis, which has been accompanied by a social crisis that has emerged in the form of an increase in the poverty, social exclusion and inequality; and we have had to deal with it under extremely adverse conditions, to which the President and the Vice-President have already referred. Therefore, I will not repeat it, I will not repeat it; but it is clear that we have suffered from incompliments, defaults on the part of the State on particularly sensitive and flagrant issues, from a point of view of social policies, as well as the willingness to drop impulses, not only for the Government, but also for this Parliament, for example, in the line of creating ourselves with the recaptancy of which we can allocate resources to deal with this situation of social urgency. We also found ourselves with no social sensitivities towards people at greater risk of vulnerability and the clearest example – and it was said, but I think it is close to reiterating this – we found ourselves with the appeal and suspension by the Government of the State and the Constitutional Court of the Decree on poor energy. Reference has been made to indicators, to taxes; reference has been made to the rate of the poor's shield, also to the Arope tax – reference has been made to Mrs Crespo –; we could point out Gini's coefficient, which is what measures the degree of inequality, as well as, and a while ago, the vice president was a very important figure that has to do with the risk rate of poverty before and after social transfers. In any case, we take this opportunity to understand the facts that help us to frame and bring us closer to the multifactorial phenomenon of the poor, knowing that there are people behind the data, those who see about this fight of the poor, those who do not have any inputs, those who have all their members at large. He has already referred to those who, despite their hard work, are at risk of poverty for the migration of their son, who in many cases the only person in the world who lives with their children. And since the onset of the crisis, situations of poor energy, food and housing have increased and emerged more strongly, even if they already existed. But the data, as I said before, also show us that the stars of the crisis are manifested differently in men and women; the inequality of pre-existing genera is not the main responsible. Yesterday, the file presented by the Table of the Third Social Sector on the occasion of the International Day of Gifts shows a greater vulnerability of women in all stages of life, both if they are working as if they are receiving benefits; the average pension is more than 30_percent lower in the case of women than men, which effectively makes it possible to reach retirement age, the highest risk; the current protection system presents a gender bias giving more to contributory pensions linked to work contributions. We also need to remember, speaking of population groups most affected by the stars of the crisis, people who suffer from some type of disability; like those who live alone, the highest percentage of whom are newly women; people who are older than sixty-five years old, or single parents, who in more than 90_per_cent are captivated by women. Despite this situation and the economic and presuppositionary limitations to which reference has already been made, the Government has prioritized this social reversal with actions and cross-cutting programs that have sought to give an emancipatory and not merely assistanceist focus so that they can act as policy makers of inequalities. And, in this sense, I would like to recall the extension of the formal recognition of universal health coverage to all the collections expelled for the direct royal state law, and the reinforcement in the protection of salvation to the most vulnerable collectivities. Or the reinforcement of free justice, with the aim of increasing its resources. As the increase in data on cultural consumption; we know that culture also significantly improves social cohesion and increases employment in high-skilled jobs. There has been talk of childhood; the data is terrible. I would like to recall the signature and the inn in the March of the Pla stratègique of integral attention to childhood and adolescence 2015-2018, in the March of the Pact for Childhood in Catalonia, signed for all the political forces of this Parliament. Or the support to the third social sector, after a good joint evaluation that we have jointly made Government and Taula of the Third Social Sector; after three years of deployment of the plan granted the year 2012, we are working to define a new support plan for the third social sector. Also from social and health interaction as an instrument of government to promote and participate in the transformation of the social and health care model, united to what has traditionally been known as healing and caring, but doing so in the most integrated way possible to give the best responses to people's needs. Or with an integral plan of care for people with mental disorders and addictions, with the collaboration of the entities of the sector to fight against the stigma associated with mental illness, but also improving the system of access to residential services for these people. And with actions for a better distribution of time through hourly reform. Allow me here to make a specific point, because the uses of time are a good indicator of social inequalities, and with hourly reform we have the opportunity to fairly redistribute work; to review when, as we do in our daily lives, we stop underestimating the tasks of healing and domestication. Much effort has been made in the past few years to try to redistribute returns – this has been a major concern of governments – but with the paradigm of the new policy strategies have been incorporated to redistribute power, and it touches, at the moment we live, to introduce a new vector as a factor of growth and cohesion: the redistribution of daily living time; ultimately, the best of the uses of time. And this government, and this Parliament, can achieve higher equity and cohesion quotas from a national pact and a law for hourly reform. Speaking of laws, this Parliament has approved some very important ones, as we are referring to today, from the Law of Accessibility to the Law of Training and Professional Qualification; the Law to guarantee the rights of LGBTBI people; the Law of Effective Equality of Men and Women, of which we speak so much yesterday, but we do not need to talk and we have to deploy it every day, obviously; or the Law of Urgent Measures to Face Emergencies in the Field of Housing and Energy Poverty; the Law of Order of the Employment System and the Public Employment Service of Catalonia. Specific actions, too, in the struggle against the poor; in that we do not start from scratch, because there has been a constant in the different governments, also in times of economic goodness, because the rate of the poor was already – already – high. And all efforts are carried out in a coordinated way by the administrations and other agents involved, as in the past, with an essential role for the local world and the entities of the third sector. March 2014 was the celebration of that Ple that we had previously referred to, about the poor and the inequalities, from which a resolution that gathered a vast package of measures of struggle against the poor turned out to be. Yesterday we advanced that 86_percent of their performances are finished or in the continuity phase. Subsequently, the Government approved the Action Plan for the Fight against the Poor and for Social Inclusion 2015-2016, a plan with a specific assumption of €1,066_million addressing the reorientation of public policies, which have traditionally been segmented from a thematic and sectoral point of view, with a much more cross-cutting focus. Now, the Government, the new Government, focuses its day-to-day action to ensure maximum social cohesion. And this means intensifying these policies through a shoc plan, with the will to consolidate and strengthen measures taken in later years, with coverage of basic needs – occupation, housing – with special attention to the better quality of life of children and young people from vulnerable families; but also implementing nine actions, some nine actions that need to arise – also today and tomorrow – from parliamentary cooperation. And we are not talking about good intentions or good words, but about an authentic plan of action with immediate response, of others that require approval of some assumptions, focused on a very specific areas, those that have already appeared in the interventions of the proposing groups, also representing social entities: the poor child in relation to the coverage of basic needs, especially those measures aimed at ensuring food; the support, also to the social entities that develop these actions of care to the most vulnerable families; or the poor energetic, or housing, to the minimum income of insertion, also to those social entities that need to recover these activities of care to the most vulnerable families; the poor, or the poor, of energy, or the housing, to the minimum income, with the exception of those areas that need not to be recovered, with the exception of those areas that are not covered in the context of the crisis; the poverty, or the poverty, of housing, to the minimum income of integration, to those areas that need not to be recovered in the context of exclusion; the poverty, or the poverty, or the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the poverty, the population, the population, the poverty, the population, the population, the population, the population, the poverty, the population, the population, the population, the population, the population, the population, the population, the population, the population, the population, the population, the population, the population, the population, the population, the population, the population, the population, the population In short, we contemplate and approach this shoc plan as an instrument more in the line of strengthening our welfare state, but an instrument that marks clear lines of action, concrete, in specially sensitive camps, which serves us to deploy laws and intensify the action of government plans that are in the service of the most vulnerable people and entities that work with them; a shoc plan that we want to deepen in this plenary and in the later debate as a step further forward in that path that we have set in motion and that we want to culminate in achieving an authentic social and economic change. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.13.0	Next, has the word Ms. Meritxell Borràs, Governance Advisor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.14.0	Thank you, Madam President. President, Councillors, Councillors, members of the Third Sector Taula, Mrs Teresa Crespo, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, I would like to speak to you about housing and energy poverty. And they'll let me start by saying again what they were saying to them in front of the Governance Commission, and it's that, as the premise of our action, always and at all times, we'll be very clear that statistics are that, static, but when we talk about numbers, actually, we're talking about people, families, and, therefore, people who have problems, people who suffer. So, then, the debate will not be a question of seeing it – and it is said, too; it seems to me that it was Mrs Teresa Crespo who gave it – whether we skate more or skate less – and in this case we talk about denunciations –; whether we give more or give less help, which we also logically have to explain. But we know, and we are very clear, that a denunciation alone is, in fact, a drama and that we need to fight to eliminate them. So we are talking about names and statistics, logically, but we are very clear that we are talking about people, about vital dramas and that, therefore, we need to give them a clear answer. The government's goal, as you know, is that no family is deprived of a decent habitat. And allow me, therefore, that the exhibits which are the four great axes which, in this matter, concretely the habitating, therefore, inspire us. The first example refers to the dimensions of social housing programmes, which are an unequivocal approval of how we can fight against the poverty of this environment. We have increased, as you know, the number of aids to housing payments. And, in this sense, we had, therefore, the year 2012, 22,000 aids, with a presumption of 50,8_million euros..., to increase, in 2015, to 48,000 aids, for a total value of 85_million euros. Therefore, to the more than 48,000 actions that is concretely done in this area also add-there is that it is the 25,000 social habitats under the responsibility of the Generality, which means, therefore, that more than seventy_ thousand families should be given direct help to avoid residential exclusion. For another band, we have also pushed the Emergence Table of the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia, doubling in this way in only two years the number of requests resolved favorably, which therefore amount to 1,808 cases. And we've tripled the number of help to families living in social housing in the Catalonian Government and multiplied its economic endowment by four. Therefore, we have gone from 1,272 aid, with a budget of EUR 1,3_million in 2012, to 4,034 aid, with a budget of EUR 5,8_million in 2015. We have also increased the economic involvement of the Generality with the entities, therefore, of the third sector, to reach 2,1_million euros destined to cover 1,686 habitats of the network of social inclusion habitats. The second is that I will mention them is to strengthen the government's collaboration with the assemblies. This is a key, necessary tool, to work in a very clear way. We have provided 323 housing units and allocated €9.3 million to local housing offices, so as to ensure a more personalized and direct attention of more proximity. We have also sent cards to various meetings with emergency table cases that cannot be solved with the park suitable for the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia. And why? So, to inform them of the existence of empty habitats of great tenors in their municipalities and to ask them to communicate if they want to exercise the mandatory cessation for three years to resolve the cases of social emergence. In this sense, also the financial entities and the large owners of the dwellings have been informed of the empty dwellings under conditions of habitability in the municipalities with urgent needs, in order to propose their voluntary cessation. We have also strengthened our collaboration with the joints in paying the lodger to the family units without entrances, so that the cases of families with zero entrances will receive a contribution from the Generality, and also from the joint where the housing is found. The third axis corresponds to the increase of the public park of lloger, of social lloger to fight against poor situations and residential exclusion. In this sense, we have acquired 166 habitats using the right of aunty and withdrawal to the service of social emergencies, and we have also increased the number of empty habitats given to funded entities up to 1,830. He was asking us to negotiate with the bank. In fact, we did – from here the 1,830 habitats – but we would continue to do so; it is absolutely necessary to work together because we get out of it. We have also approved the rules of the tax on empty dwellings, which, from March 1, records empty dwellings for two years, which for two years have been empty, in the seventy-two municipalities of need, which in the day, "accredited, of social habitation. And we've opened sanctioning expeditions to bank entities and public housing promotion entities that keep empty floors of official protection. This is a subject in which the law is used and we do not want, moreover, that in case there are official protection floors, for the time being, locked in our house. Finally, the fourth is: treat the performances that are derived from the platoon that he presented, and what defense, Juntes per el Si. And, in this sense, we will give a solution, in a maximum of new months, to the pending cases of the months of emergence, through the operational direction of emergency actions in the matter of habitats, which will act to resolve them. The Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia has also amended the Rules of Procedure of the Emergency Bureau of the Agency of the Habitatage, on the 11th of February, and communicated it to the joints, in order to conform to the Law 24/2015. The Catalonia Habitat Agency already prioritizes, as you know, the destination of public dwellings for the case of the months of emergence; as well as all acquired dwellings by means of taneig and retraction, which has been exercised, and it is expected that in the next three or four months the Generality will have the most habitat obtained also through this mechanism and the signature of us agree. We also hope to incorporate the habitats of the municipal public parks of the housing grounds of lloger destined for social policies, through an invitation of help to the municipal public parks, which is as required in the previous incorporation of the housing grounds of lloger destined for social policies. Finally, with respect to what it does strictly to the housing matter, we can extend the name of families with right to understand the help to the loguer; as well as the deadline for submitting requests to improve the system of calls for help, whenever, therefore – and here it is mentioned – the requirements of 2016 are adopted. This is a necessary element of everything. Therefore, we have tools, not enough, but we have tools, and we therefore want to have everything that is needed so that we can give answers to those in need. And we are also very clear that we are working to solve all the emergencies, but, as I said – and this is also a government plan – we did not give up to solve the problem of housing foundations. With regard to poor energy, the Government's priority is to prevent any person or family in a situation of social vulnerability from being cut off from basic sub-administrations by default. The government assumes the realm of poor energy as a joint goal of all the country's administrations. I do not want to fail to mention here the great work that brings together together through its social services, which, by means of appropriate resources, in many cases, or from the help of social emergencies coming from the Generality and other supra-municipal administrations, respond to those citizens who resort to the administration closest to them and, therefore, together, to find an answer to their problems. Public administrations have the obligation to act against the situation of energy poverty, the Government has done so – it has done so – and I would like to point out – by the Government of the State, which has not complied with the current European directive. Therefore, we have found ourselves with the paradox that not only the Spanish Government has not fulfilled, but that, moreover, it has put its hands on the wheels because we cannot give answers from Catalonia. Therefore, we find ourselves facing a government of the State that appeals to us and brings us to the Constitutional Court to suspend those measures that we adopt and want, with them, to give answers to the assembly of the citizens. I would like to remind you, for the further development of these, because they will take future action. The Government's first measure was the approval of Decree No. 6/2013, for which the Catalonia Consumer Code Law was amended, which introduced two important questions, such as: first, the realization of the situation of economic vulnerability – this is key and necessary – and second, the obligation on the part of the sub-administrators to suspend the sub-administrative sizes with a report from the social services. Therefore, this first measure was and was repeated and put to rest. The second measure was the approval by the Parliament of Law 20/2014, of 29 December, of the modification of the Law of the Code of consumption of Catalonia, for the better protection of people consuming in the matter of credit and mortgage loans, and, therefore, of those who their economic vulnerability left them in a difficult situation. In this sense, therefore, there were nine reporting obligations to the subcontractors, and the creation of the Solidary Service Fund for basic sub-administrations, which was the instrument intended to give economic support to people in this situation of vulnerability. The rule currently in force in Catalonia – because this, therefore, has also been resorted to in this area – is the Law of Urgent Measures to Address Emergency in the Field of Housing and Energy Poorness. A rule that establishes the protection of persons and units in a residential exclusion risk situation before the sizes of sub-administrations, which cannot be produced by reason of the payment of these persons or families in a residential exclusion risk situation. A rule, too, threatened by the Government of the State and that could be remedied and suspended. Faced with these interferences that directly affect the city, our commitment continues to prevent any person or family in a situation of social vulnerability from being cut off from basic sub-administrations. That is why we will create the necessary administrative instruments and tools and a structure that can guarantee basic consumption to all those families in a situation of poor energy. In Catalonia, according to data from 2014, 32,914 vulnerable customers were given coverage, without interruption of administration: 16,229 electricity, 12,838 water and 3,847 gas. And that's thanks to the joint work that we've done with the different administrations, the social entities, logically, and the municipal entities. The challenge we have ahead is to give out the debt, and that's why we pushed a line of grants with shared criteria with social services to establish processing and concession mechanisms. The government allocated the year 2015 an initial game of 5_millions, as you know, for this concept, it was extendable to god. But we also know that, at the end of the day, the grant of 3,770 aid had only the total import of 1,146,654 euros. We need to assess, logically, how the grant of this grant worked; but we can also say – today we can do it now – that the result has not been expected. Let's identify different causes for which the expected assumption has not been exhausted, and to this, logically, we need to reshape. Management has been more complex when it comes to a grant and not a fund. It may be recalled that this was repeated and suspended, and that therefore, logically, more documents are needed to resolve the concession. On the other hand, the subcontractors and the basic social services managed a large part of the procedure for requesting help, and this, therefore, logically, may also have made this system, this mechanism, not the most appropriate. The government is aware that it was not a simple management, we know that. We are aware that this line of help is an imperfect successor to the Basic Sub-Service Solidary Care Fund, but there is no doubt that we will work to improve on everything that is possible and to ensure a more effective response. In this sense, one of the best things being studied is the establishment of agreements with municipal entities so that the cancellation of the unpaid bill debt is faster, easier and more conducive to those people in a situation of residential exclusion. Tanmateix, however – you know – the government has a commitment to allocate a $10_million match to poor energy in the new premise. And, in parallel, you have predicted that the Romanesque not executed in this 2015 premise can be allocated this year 2016 for this same concept. For what it does to the activities inspectors, the Government applies the Code of consumption of Catalonia, which establishes that the contractors must inform about any notice or communication regarding the lack of payment of the service, the rights affecting the poor energy and the other rights held by consumers in a situation of economic vulnerability. In this sense, when the sub-administrative undertaking has to make a size of sub-administration, it has to request, in advance, a report from the municipal social services. The Catalan Consumer Agency controls the compliment of this obligation by means of a wealth of emergencies that..., at the disposal of the social services, so as to inform about the imminent heights. In parallel, consumer inspection services are processing complaints that the Catalan Consumer Agency is receiving for undue amounts. Yeah, we got 'em and we got 'em. And, in this sense, the rebuffed communications to the emergency compass, at this time, add up to a total of fifty-six sanctioning expeditions. In the later term, I would like to express that the Government is studying different measures to make it easier for the citizenry to have a precise and more general understanding of the rights to the guarantee and continuity of the basic water, light and gas sub-administrations. And, to finish this intervention, I would like to assure you that we work intensively to give the fall to the emergency situation that we are living with today's tools of what, today, we have in our midst. Without oblivion, as we think, and as we believe, we must face up to housing policies that are not only the strict ones of social emergence. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.15.0	Next, has the word Ms. Meritxell Ruiz, Education Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.16.0	Madam President, honourable President, accompanying entities, Members and Members, following the thread set out by the very honourable President and also by the Vice-President and the previous advisers respect the import of the education system..., the education system, while not being the social service forecasting system, is a very important remedy for fighting for equal opportunities and against social exclusion, as it helps to prevent the possible risks of exclusion. Therefore, it is an important factor in reducing the inequalities that exist in a society. Our educational centres, as I said, are not the basic social services, but they complement one of the most important social functions they have in common, which is to enable those people who have fewer resources to have today, and in the future, the same educational and training opportunities that remain. We aspire to provide the best education for the new generations and, further on, to continue to give educational opportunities to everyone throughout his life. This is our reference mark. A well-formed society is a society – and we are all very conscious – more cohesive and more advanced. In recent years, Europe's sharp economic crisis has hit our society hard, and in Catalonia especially. A government has never had to deal with such severe and profound social needs, nor has a government ever had so few economic resources so far. In the face of this social concern, the education system, as has been the case with other policies and social entities, many present today, has been a very important asset against inequalities and an important instrument of positive confidence for the future of these people. Despite the fact that social and economic inequalities have increased greatly and have caused a major fracture, the school, the institute, our schools, our institutes, have helped to compensate for these inequalities so that they do not fall within the educational sphere. The Catalan education system has been and is a pillar in the fight against inequalities, and the data that we will see further so confirm. The economic crisis, unfortunately, has had the most impact on our children and young people, and we come, and we are aware, to our educational centres with very difficult lives, such as denunciations, lack of coverage of basic rights, family tensions, and also what is important, mistrust of the present and the future. Educational centres are accompanying these situations with close coordination with social services, which are those that meet basic needs through the different resources that give social entities, municipal entities and the Generality. But they don't just follow, but the education system provides them with a basic opportunity to grow in format and personal. Educational centres are one of the most trusted and promising spaces, providing basic support so that this student can graduate and have quality educational opportunities. Today the President of the Table of the Third Social Sector, in an article in a Catalan newspaper, said that "with an educational system that does not leave any behind and reduce at European level the high drop-out from school and prematurely... For families and students in poor situations, it is basic to be able to obtain a school degree, which is the essential door to post-compulsory education. And today we can say that the number of graduates to compulsory secondary education, in the last five years, has increased by 5.2 points, and is at 87.8_per_cent the 14-15 course. Therefore, most of your students end up with compulsory secondary education. The education system must enable, despite all the negative conditions, the student to reach the maximum of his or her abilities. At the same time, the percentage of students with low levels of solace of skills has also declined in these years, and it is in the very centres of maximum complexity where there has been a more positive trend of students who do not dream up these skills. And for this student, more than for others, it is basic to be able to continue beyond compulsory secondary education. And we can say that we are moving towards the European 2020 goal of having a maximum of 15_percent early school drop-out. The data from the last course are, for the first time in the last years, per 20_per_cent in early school leaving; currently we find ourselves in an 18,8_per_cent. Therefore, this must be a country objective and an obsession of the administrations. And, if we are to have a more equitable system, we need to pay special attention to those socially most disadvantaged environments. And, as resources are too scarce, this government's stake has been and will continue to be given priority to centres of greatest complexity: more educational needs, more educational resources. There are different resources, therefore, that are intended to meet these needs, from the reduction of rates in these centers... – We have already announced for the sake of a reduction of rates to P3 in the centers of maximum complexity and a greater provision of additional resources – they also have an extension or an expanded time support for all the students, a support of social integration techniques and child education techniques, as well as a endowment for the socialization of textbooks and school material in these centers of maximum complexity, which for this course has been of 4_million euros, 1.5 more than the past course. They also know that in the past few years we have had a special concern for the feeding of our infants. The department has worked with a lot of strength because all those children at high social risk have a grocery scholarship, following the recommendations of many of the entities, as well as the Greuges Syndicate. Together with the regional councils, in collaboration with the Catalan Association of Municipalities and the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia, we worked hard to complete a process of revising the criteria set out in the different calls for help from the householder, with the first objective of achieving greater fairness in the implementation of these aids. The criteria include, among others, that priority is given to the income level of the families, the shield from which there is a guaranteed help and the shield from which it is guaranteed an aid to the cent_per_cent of the cost of fooder, which allows me to tell them that it had never happened before, to have aid from the cent_per_cent of fooder. And in parallel, it is also expected that applications will be admitted once the presentation deadline has been completed, because we are very aware that many situations occur to us. For the current course, the initial forecast of the department was €48_million and, as the President said, the forecast is already up to €55_million. At these times we can already say that we have allocated 53,6_million, and the game remains open, but also with a priority of payment: before 2011, these aids are paid every three and four months; now every month the regional councils receive an income per part of the Generality. And we have to make an effort, in any case, to explain to send it all to the students who complete the guaranteed scholarship coats of tea. And, as some here report, it's not these cases that say they've been left without a scholarship, but it's an additional endowment that the county councils specifically asked to cover cases that, although they've crossed the shields to get this scholarship guaranteed, they may be eligible for help depending on the valuation of social services, or, as we've done this course for the first time, because this additional endowment can also be used to increase aid from 50_per_cent to 100_per_cent. And this is not the guaranteed game, because, as I explained, the guaranteed game each time went up more; this is an additional game. Despite this, we do not install ourselves in this system, which for the first time is fair and takes into account the income situation of families from any other situation, but we are continuing to negotiate with local councils to make it even more just. Another aspect that we are reviewing, together with the gatherings, is the children's lars. They know that since 2011 Catalonia has stopped funding not only for children, but also for all the schooling from zero to six years. The Spanish State determined that it was no longer financing these stages, and the Government of the Generality decided that it could not transfer the full cost of schooling to families and is devoting all resources to schooling from three to six years and has sought the support of the members for zero to three. And the future model we're talking about with the joints is that of social pricing. The model before there did not take into account the economic situation of families and re-establishes the same family with higher returns than a family at the time, and this is neither fair nor fair at a time like the present. Aware, therefore, of the importance of this stage, we will continue to seek resources and make proposals for a system that I reverted above all to infants who most need support from the children's home. And we have also introduced a territorial balance theme, incorporating zero three years into rural schools, through a pilot test that started this course 15-16. But the school, too, has been told today, cannot act alone, but is registered in a environment with which it must work together. Educational responses to the difficult needs cannot come only from educational centres. To enhance the educational success of the entire student, to enhance cohesion and social integration, we are working together and in the network with the municipalities and entities around us to achieve a greater impact of the different actions. An example of this is the educational plans around, which are a proposal for cooperation and educational co-responsibility between the Department of Education, the municipalist entities and the different social entities, which aims to give an integrated and community-based response to the educational needs of the younger members of society, with special attention to the most fragile and vulnerable social sectors. This course is 348,816 students who are enjoying these hundred and six educational plans around, 68 percent of which are high-complexity centers. Another aspect to highlight are scholarships for teaching post-compulsory studies. The department, through the management of the call for scholarships of general character, the past course managed 54,759 requests, and granted aid to more than 33,000 students, for an import of 45,49_million euros. In the case of enrollment in the higher-grade format cycle, to ensure that everyone is able to access it, special bonuses and exemptions apply for this public price for students in poor situations. And we also want to value programs for new opportunities, such as programs for adult training, to promote literacy and training for those with a low level of format. In total, they benefit from these programs more than 6,500 people. In the same line, the Department of Education promotes different programs that constitute new opportunities for young people who complete compulsory secondary education without the corresponding title. These programs help to stay or reintegrate into the education system. And the government also plans to develop an agreement with the SOC and the department in the interdepartmental program of Nine Opportunities for Young People, to encourage young people to continue their post-compulsory education and to improve the occupancy fees between this population collection. The program is aimed, as you know, at young people between fourteen and twenty-four years in a situation or risk of early abandonment of studies and vulnerability. Despite all these initiatives, we are still aware that the needy are growing and that we must continue to work intensively to ensure that educational inequalities do not grow. Many families experience a precarious situation of a time that has widened, and we are aware that this produces situations that are more complex than before and that the poor are able to chronicle in families that until four or five years ago were of middle class. Therefore, we do not want to have a shred of complacency with the data that we have facilitated; but, yes, a recognition of the teaching and educational system that makes the school and the institute continue to feel much the most positive hope of the future. This government, therefore, works and bets on fairness and quality, vectors that will currently allow us and in the country that we are building to have a fairer society and ensure equal opportunities for all people. The education system, we are aware that it is one of the bases to make it happen. These are some of the measures that we wanted to highlight, but it is the whole educational system and the different educational policies that are the ones that are oriented towards having a quality system, because it is precisely the quality that can best guarantee real equity. And with this main objective we commit ourselves to continue working and hope to reach agreement with the different political forces as well. Thank you, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.17.0	Next, has the word Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Social Afers and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.18.0	Thank you, President. Benvolguguts Members, Members, Entities, Associations, Citizens in General, Most Honorable President and Government Companions, Today we believe, from the government, that we address the first priority of this time: to be at the side of people in a vulnerable situation, to seek with them their full condition of citizenship, both equally as in equal opportunities. To stand at their side, yes, to seize and seize with them, to fight the poor, but to fight it day by day, or, in other words, to work for the freedom of people and to help make quality work a universal right. Gandhi said, in the beginning and creation of her new country, that the poor is one of the worst forms of violence. Getting out of the poor is a shared challenge for all people in this room, but it is a path that must be able to lead people in a vulnerable situation. And, therefore, we believe that what matters to us is having and having the tools to build his own life, his life plan. Dignified work must be the first social policy, the first tool to get out of the poor. And all the actions that we do with unworkable people must be directed towards taking over and guaranteeing their personal autonomy. Getting out of the poor with your own hands means giving them all the tools they can to get to the same exit point and the same entry point as the rest of the people; it also means having an inclusive territory and environment, and it means continuing and improving care policies for people and especially complicated situations. This is why from this department we work with three tools: support tools for people, support tools for the local world and support tools for entities. Support tools for people who are those measures of direct care of immediate character; preventive measures, too, to face concrete situations of structural poverty and promotion of personal autonomy. For example, we can talk about programmes to guarantee the right to work, which are already being done; support autonomous life, especially for young guardians and extutes; concrete benefits for children and adolescents at risk; programmes to support positive parenting; complements to non-contributory pensions; specific aids for spending on basic needs, for covering food needs, especially children and adolescents during the summer. We work with tools for the local world. We believe that the struggle of the poor must come from the territory, so we work together with the local administration. And this coordination, cooperation and collaboration is material in terms of the programme contract that we expect this 2016 to have a budget of 200_million euros. It has been said repeatedly, giving thanks to the attention of the social services. From the department we want to give special thanks to the social workers, because they are the first face to face this great task that we want to develop. Supporting tools for entities, because we also believe that they are the first-hand knowledge of the social reality of the country. We have the intention, and we all know it, of moving from the palliative measures, which we are giving at concrete times, to working with the citizens' networks, to working to agree all together. That's why support for entities is essential. There is the ordinary call for grants, that the year 2015 has had an import of 170_million euros, but, in addition, a call for grants for the development of activities of care to the family in a situation of social vulnerability, especially those that have infants in charge, that we will re-publish this year with an expected import of 3_million expandable. It's meant for pharmacy, clothing, food... according to the entities, they have a preference. Therefore, all these are the ones we have to support, but, more than that, we commit ourselves to intensifying measures and intensifying them from a wide range of different perspectives. Intensify the work policies of youth guarantee programs, that of great actions for large people, necessary employment plans at these times, programs linked to territorial concertation and, above all, active policies also of occupation with an impact of genera, that we have in very few, that currently, practically, do not exist and are studying and ensure that this year we can develop them. Increase the premise of the Aracoop to promote the creation of new cooperatives and labor companies. Moving forward to the new Catalan minimum wage, the one of the thousand euros that Spain does not complete and that, therefore, we must go helping with the social concertation that can be achieved. We already have the mark, we already have the agreement of social and economic agents to move forward in this program; and to ensure, above all through our work inspection, that everyone respects equal opportunities and decent work, and that he directly attacks the fraud to achieve an economic model where a socially sustainable job is created. Exercising the choice of inequality by mitigating the minimum income of inclusion while working from here to a guaranteed income of citizenship that progressively tended to cover the vital minimums of citizenship in a poor situation, then naming the social land. We expect an increase in the budget of €70_million to 185_million, which has already been said to have been spent this year. For two reasons: to recover the condition of subject right and to guarantee the maintenance in the program of all those people who, after the sixty-month stay, still keep the circumstances that generated the right to perceive it. Therefore, a great adventure that we do not leave here, but we will continue to advance. These are work-related policies. We will increase social and integration policies. Increase, for example, economic benefits and services to people in a situation of dependency, disability or deprivation of economic resources that have recognized the right, by increasing by EUR 50_million to the better of personal autonomy. We will implement social and health integration to give importance to the independence of people and to the right to be different. We will fully deploy the service of first aid to accompany people who have migrated, and not as a subsidy, but to give them the tools, the box of tools that any of us would need if we were not to live in another country, so on important issues such as knowing language, knowing the labour market and knowing society. We will work in coordination with entities and joint ventures to make possible a process of integration based on freedom, on the autonomy of refugees and at these times they suffer so much. As a democratic country, we have the right and the right to embrace all those who are perilous in their lives. Beyond these social policies, we will work – and work – for social inclusion policies – it has been said before – in the framework of the comprehensive intervention of social and community inclusion, we will develop the new national plan. It is true that Community development and social inclusion must be enhanced, and therefore, here we will continue..., we will do so through the Barrel Law. Through the programme contract, we will also boost and boost the financing of measures to fight the poor with the same locals: opening of centres opened in the summer with the service of footstools in these centres, contributing to the expenses of social emergency aid, implementation of social inclusion programmes and community development plans. We will incorporate the social agenda in an orderly manner with direct and monthly agreements with social workers and we will create the agency, as explained above, of social protection to order social benefits and increase what at every moment the legislation allows us. Therefore, this country is clear that it has serious inequality problems, that it has difficult emergencies to deal with, but you don't think so, and I am sure it will be our first priority. From here I want to tell you that, like the Government, we have the energy, the will and the ability to be among the countries that have the most equal opportunities in Europe. We work there and we will continue to work, because we are clear that we need to make the leap from the palliative measures that we can give at this point in time to transformative social policies, and that is the only way we will succeed. We are very clear, as many of the entities have also told us, that we want a country with people with equal opportunities, that is to say, we want a free country with free people; free people in a free country is what will make there is no poverty. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.19.0	Then there's the words of Mr. Antoni Comín, Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.20.0	Many honorable president, many honorable president, councillors, councillors, deputies, representatives of the entities of the third sector, welcome, happy to be together today with the hemicicle. We will not get tired, from the advice of Salut, we will not marry to repeat it: the worst enemy of the right to salvation is inequality. And that's not a nice phrase, but it's a scientific conclusion of the social sciences, huh? In effect, the social sciences confirm us – there are many studies in this sense – that countries with the same, exactly the same level of life, but with different levels of inequality, have different results in salvation; that is, indicators of life expectancy, infant mortality, mental health, addiction, obesity, burden of morbidity, burden of illness, etc. In countries that have the same GDP per capita, in those cases where the Gini index is worse, where there is more inequality, they have better indicators in each of these quarters, with the same GDP per capita, the countries that have a better, more equal Gini index have better indicators in salvation. Therefore, the best ally of the right to salvation – all the companies and companies of the government have said, starting with the president, following for the vice president – is the construction of a state of the welfare of the first division. That is why, among others, or mainly because of this reason, we want an independent state, in order to be able to make a state of the welfare of the first division, which has the capacity to do two things: to redistribute income and wealth, that income and wealth that the markets, for themselves, do not have the capacity to distribute equitably; and also to regulate the markets in such a way that they make a primary distribution already of more equitable nature, as it passes to the most equalised countries of Europe, which already have a primary distribution, of entry, more equality. Also, from the Health Department it is obvious that we are the ones who have the greatest responsibility in guaranteeing the right to salvation, and we obviously do not take refuge in it. The first of our priorities, from the Health Department, is the fight against inequalities in salvation, and this is done with many ways. This is what we do from the Secretary of Public Health; there is an interdepartmental plan of public salvation, salvation to all policies that intend to affect the social determinants of salvation, in order to try to face these inequalities in salvation. We did it in community health policies, but we did it, too, for example, taking into account the inequality factor at the time of planning for the distribution of care resources. I explained it to them at the end of the day. For example, in the first instance, we are already reassigning resources to match the unequal factor. I'm saying this because it's not today's first day we're talking about inequality in this chamber, and it's not today's last day we're talking about inequality, because inequality, from this department and from this government, we'll hear about it all over the legislature. It seems fantastic to us to make a monographic ple on inequality, but to us the whole legislature, to some extent, is a monographic legislature to talk about inequality and the poor, the whole legislature in its conjunction. Guarantee everyone's right to salvation equally. And so, when we tell everyone, the first challenge is the challenge of universality, and we want to guarantee access for all people living in Catalonia to care, regardless of their administrative situation. We know that this plays with a royal decree approved for the Spanish government that limits universal access for all people. We have been avoiding, to put it this way, this royal decree by means of instructions during the last term, but we want to put on the table a more solid rule to guarantee this right to universality, and the Government and Parliament will probably know it for their approval. We also want the right to salvation to be universally guaranteed, but equally guaranteed. And equity in space and equity in time. Equity in space means that we have to make a health map that takes into account the inequalities in health needs, that means we have to strengthen the care facilities, mainly primary – the primary care centers, CAP, CUAP – and in this we are, also, working at these times from the department with all the technical rigour that the company requires. But we have to guarantee fairness, too, for what it does in time. And now I won't explain it, because they already know it so well, which is our compromise for what it does to the waiting lists: we want to reduce them, we want to ensure transparency in the management of waiting lists. And I've already told them and I repeat that we take into account factors that are not just clinical, but also social factors at the time of prioritizing people who enter a waiting list. More things we want to do to guarantee the right to salvation. We want to guarantee – the very honourable president said in his speech – that we want to strengthen the public character of the system. We value the diversity of providers as a strength of our health system; it is a virtue, it is a vantage, it has made it strong, it has made it better than many other health systems, but this does not mean that among the diversity of providers we always prioritize those public providers who do not have maximum care capacity. And, in this sense, you know that you have already taken action in this direction, so known for all of you and for public opinion. Even so, it would be better to have a right to universal salvation, equity and public health if our assistance was not a quality assistance. Therefore, compromise very, very, very main of all health policies to improve the quality of a care system that at these times already has a quality of the highest in Europe, according to all the objective indicators – this we have to repeat. And we have to do a lot of things to improve quality. We need to take over the primary and we need to make community health and primary care the vagina of the hand. We have to make master plans in the field of hospital specialist care; they are being done. We have to face the huge repte of chronicity; the vice president before some considerations of democratic type..., so, effectively, population aging is one of the main reptes for our health system and all the health systems of the developed world. And also – and also – we must have a very solid commitment to research and innovation, because research and innovation also have a social function; science can be a huge ally of struggle against inequality if we are able to put the scientific progress, technical progress, innovation, to the service of social progress and struggle against inequality. Finally, we need to implement transparency and participation mechanisms – transparency and participation. We have announced audits of derivations and externalisations; we have announced a new register of contracts and more measures that will be made in the line of improving, maximizing the transparency of our system; we will have to reactivate many mechanisms of participation of professionals, of patients, which are already planned but at these times are not fully activated the power of what they are capable of... But, in any case, we have to make it very clear that the best public administrations in the world are those that have been able to incorporate mechanisms of transparency and participation, because it is the best way to ensure that the resources that we have, in this case in health, are resources of all, that we generate among all, that are our resources, are effectively managed and distributed fairly. And here transparency and participation will obviously be central to our action. I'm done. Many of these measures that I have explained and some that I have not explained are found in the social plan that the Group of Joints for the Yes offered to the CUP Group. Some of these measures, many of which appear in the Social Security Plan, in fact, originated from the same Junts electoral program for the Yes. There are other measures that this department, and the new team and the government, has once added to it. But in any case, what we need to make clear is that all the measures that I have explained and that I have not had time to explain, that they do not have a presuppositional impact or that they have a limited presuppositional impact, we can guarantee them as safe measures, we will do them, but there are many measures that have a considerable presuppositional impact. For example, waiting lists, I have repeated hundreds of times, 100_million; the reduction commitment we have placed on the table has a cost of 100_million, almost one_third..., no, almost one_third no: more than one_third– more than one_third– of the total assumption of the social security plan. So I just remember for the first time – I think it's good that we're doing this – that it's not possible to get the social security plan under way if we don't have a premise. I think it's useful to make this reminder again in this House, and we should all take it into account. I'm done. We want a country without poverty, we've all said it. The poor are incompatible with freedom. We will not have a country of free people while there are people in our poor country. This is our main cause... In fact, I was preparing my intervention and looking at the cares of the people we are in this Chamber and of the people who are accompanying us today to the rostrum, and I was thinking: many of us, many of us who are, you are here, before you were a deputy or before you were part of this government, we have been volunteers in third-sector entities. Many of you have collaborated with the Poor Zero platform, we have collaborated; you have worked in entities of the fourth world; some have had the privilege of working in the world of the no-grounds... So when we talk about poverty, we know what we're talking about. Our compromise is absolute – absolute – because we know what we're talking about. The one, that we now have institutional responsibilities and, therefore, we have the right, the obligation to put all our institutional resources and finance to the service of this cause, which is what it gives to all others. Why the cause of democracy, the cause of full national freedom, so they wouldn't feel it if they weren't serving to make a country more just and a country more egalitarian, would they? This is our utopia. I like the name of the platform: Poor Zero, huh? "Poor zero is the formulation of a utopia, but, as the good friend Pere Casaldàliga says, the good utopias are what they do every day. And this government, effectively, every day works to make the utopia of the poor zero a reality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.21.0	As you have seen, the development of the session has not been in line with the planned timetable. The parliamentary groups will therefore intervene from three o'clock in the evening. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the occasion of the International Day of Donations]] [[401-00006/11]] And now what we will do will be read the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia with the motto of the International Day of Donations. Ask Secretary David Pérez to read it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.22.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. « Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the occasion of the International Day of Donations. The Parliament of Catalonia, with the motto of the International Day of the Donors, which is celebrated on March 8, manifests its total involvement in the struggle to achieve real equality between women and men and to combat any form of discrimination and injustice. Since internationally, from the United Nations Assembly and in place of the Millennium Development Goals, which are in force until 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals have been set up until 2030, which propose to change the course of the 21st century by addressing fundamental challenges such as poverty, inequality and violence against women, and between whom the empowerment of women is a precondition for achieving them, the Catalonian Parliament is doing its utmost, among these objectives, number 5, which is fully dedicated to gender equality. The Parliament of Catalonia expresses its willingness to work specifically on the different aspects that mark objective 5. May be all forms of discrimination against all women and children all over the world. In this sense, Parliament considers it essential to promote equal opportunities through the education system, to guarantee equal opportunities for access to the world of work, promotion and wages, and to give solutions to the specific needs of women living in the rural world. Eliminate all forms of violence against all women and children in public and private settings, including trafficking and sexual exploitation and other types of exploitation. Eliminate all harmful practices, such as early and forced child marriage and female genital mutilation. Recognise and value unpaid care work and unpaid home work by means of public service provision, provision of infrastructure and formulation of social protection policies, and also by promoting shared responsibility in the home and family, according to what is close to each country. Vetllar for the full and effective participation of women and equal opportunities of leadership in all spheres of decision-making in political, economic and public life. Ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights, in accordance with the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development, the Beijing Platform for Action and the final documents of the respective review conferences. Undertake reforms that link women to the right to economic resources on an equal footing, as well as access to ownership and control of land and other assets, financial services, inheritance and natural resources, in compliance with state laws. Improve the use of instrumental technology, in particular information and communication technologies, to promote the empowerment of women. Adopt and strengthen sound policies and applicable laws to promote gender equality and empowerment of women and children at all levels. The Parliament of Catalonia makes these objectives and is committed to developing them. Palau del Parlament, March 9, 2016. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.23.0	The session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.24.0	It's part of the session. [[General debate on the social emergency situation, economic recovery, public management and the need for an institutional response (continuation)]] [[255-00001/11]] Let us continue the debate with the interventions of the representatives of the parliamentary groups to fix their position for a maximum of thirty minutes. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.25.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. President, Counsellor..., thanks also to Mrs. Teresa Crespo and the rest of the representatives of the entities who are accompanying us today, not only for the work they have done today, for the work they have done also to help the groups prepare this plenary, but for the work they do every day from the third sector to fight precisely the thing we are talking about today, which is the poor in Catalonia. "If this extraordinary Ple of poorness is not repeated again, it will have completed its objective. That's what we said in 2014, when another extraordinary ple of poverty was celebrated. And the reality is that today, two years later, it is more necessary than ever to celebrate another ple of poverty. Because, far from getting better, we have data that are gross, and that, moreover, in many questions are still worse than the ones we had in 2014, when this other extraordinary ple of poverty was celebrated. Many things have happened in these two years, as you all know. But I think it's very hard to think that any city in Catalonia can say that this government's priority has been fighting the poor in these two years. Yesterday, Mrs. Munté referred to the implementation of the measures that were approved at the end of Ple, and said, without believing, without giving any type of document, that they executed more than 80_percent of these measures. It is a cipher that has aroused surprise and disbelief, not only among opposition groups, but also among representatives of third-sector entities, with whom we have been able to speak at these times. It's true that he didn't approve of everything he proposed, obviously. Let us remember that the last legislature the left-wing and convergence and union clamp was the majority in Parliament, and, therefore, many sensible, feasible proposals, which presented the opposition did not push forward. But, in addition, there were very concrete, and very simple, and very feasible, measures that were approved and that still did not come to an end. I think today's reality must embarrass us all. He's all gone. Because talking about Catalonia today is talking about the past; talking about Catalonia today is talking about precariousness; talking about Catalonia today, unfortunately, is talking about poor work; about inequality, every day more unequal between the richest people or families and the poorest people and families in this country; talking about Catalonia today is talking about almost 20_percent of the risk of poverty, so as not to go into details of poor children, which goes much more there. Today, 70_percent of people who do not have work do not have any type of work, and many of them do not follow any type of work program or training that is useful to them to find a decent work. More than 1 million Catalans arrive at the end of the month with many – many – difficulties and with great concern. This is the reality of today – of today. And, besides talking about today, I'd like to talk about yesterday, March 8th. Because the poor girl is especially looking at the scales of women. And that's what you have to say. It has to be said when we are so close to, besides, the Day of the Lady, that we celebrated yesterday. And there's more to it than they usually don't comment, they usually try to cover it up, but I think that, as we say before, they're gross, right? According to data from the EPA, the EPA of the last quarter of the past year, today there are fewer busy women who are just one year old. According to the data of the EPA. And, therefore, speaking of the poor, speaking of inequality, speaking of the past, it is also speaking of women, unfortunately, in order not to go into details of the wage bracket, which previously also spoke of entities, or part-time work, or even non-remunerated work, these jobs to which many hours many women dedicate and which no one recognizes and which no one pays. Plus, in these years we've also seen how public servants, basic servants, have seen their assumptions. And today we can talk about poor public services, public services that are the best alternative, the best tool, that we have to fight against the poor. And there's more to it than we, Citizens, like to talk very much, because we don't think it's a big deal, and it's the economics of inequality. I mean, it's obvious that poverty, inequality, is a social problem, it's a moral problem, it affects people who are in this situation. But inequality is also an economic problem that affects all of us. The most egalitarian societies are the most competitive societies, and while we are in this situation of inequality we cannot compete with the rest of the world, and we can only compete, as it is now, with lower rates that do not bring us anywhere. I believe, moreover, that the poor need politicians and governments to devote all their resources and efforts to this circumstance, and as long as they also try to see the presupposition in the fight against the poor not as a expense, but as a reversal, perhaps as one of the best social and economic investments that governments can make for their own generations. Because talking about inequality and talking about poverty is talking about losing talent, that we all suffer. Because talent grows where it needs to grow, it needs to be born, and that doesn't understand popular classes, that doesn't understand rich classes and doesn't understand family resources. Therefore, we need a strong middle class and equal opportunity worker who can be the foundation of our country's economic growth. We also like to talk very much about a subject, and it is triumphalism that both the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generality, which in many things gather very much, do more with the data of occupation and with the data of economic growth. I, more than fakes, it's unfair. Because behind these data what we can prove is that the weakest people are left each time closer together. We can't hear the governments talking – I insist, from Spain and Catalonia – saying that we get out when many people and many families are left behind. And we want to make a realistic and understanding opposition. Realist and understanding because we understand that the poor is a multidimensional, structural situation that affects many areas: education, health care, social, nutritional, housing, etc. And that, therefore, is a structural situation that is not easy to reverse. Moreover, we also like to be understood because we understand the difficulty that governments that are currently ruling in a crisis situation have to have. And that's what I've said many times since this Faristol, not only in this legislature, but in the past. The governments that govern themselves now have more needs than ever to attend to and fewer resources than ever to give them solutions. And there's no magic sticks, and we're never going to make an objection to asking anyone for magic sticks, or you're going to pretend to solve everything in a year or a legislature. But, frankly, seeing the government's speech today, we believe very sincerely that they do not deserve this understanding or this so constructive opposition. And I say this because in the speech that we saw today to the Government of the Generalitat, starting with the President of the Generalitat, Mr Puigdemont, and ending for each and every one of the advisers and advisers who have intervened today, we have not seen an apex of self-criticism – nor an apex of self-criticism. It seems a lie that it is you, both Convergence and Esquerra, the two parties that have always ruled Catalonia, always in the whole stage of democracy. Something will be responsible, I say, in this chilling data that we have on the table; something will have to see its priorities and its policies so that today in Catalonia there will be a poverty rate of 20_per_cent; something will have to see that the debt of the Generalitat is, of course, a slab that makes it difficult to carry out certain public policies; something will have to do also in the policies that have been done throughout Spain, when we do not forget that Convergence i Unió has not only governed Catalonia, but has influenced all the governments of Spain, from the central government, and therefore have influenced policies of different scope throughout Spain, and therefore also Catalans. Do you really think it wasn't a day to do a little self - criticism? I sincerely believe that if we do not make self-criticism, if we do not go to the bottom of the issue, at the root of the problems, we will hardly find a long-term structural solution that will placate the problem of poverty in Catalonia. And, moreover, not only have they not made self-criticism, but the solution is not realistic at all. And I assure you that I had no intention of opening this debate..., of talking about this issue, because I believe that today we should focus on poverty. But seeing the speech of the Generalitat de Catalunya, of the Government, today in the Parliament, we have not been disappointed: the fault of everything is the known, it is the « Spain steals us, and the magic solution to everything is the also known magic potion of independence. Mr Puigdemont appealed to realism when making proposals. And I assure you that we always propose solutions taking into account the difficulties of the finances of an administration like the Generalitat, that the accounts have to be squared, that you cannot probably meet all the needs that are generated. But, man, a government that argues that the magic solution is to declare the least independence it can do is to demand realism from the rest of the opposition groups. And it is also a pity, it is a pity that you continue to fall on the same stone, because this hinders understanding and agreement, not only in this chamber, where I believe there is a lot of room for dialogue, but also with other administrations that are also involved in the public policies of Catalonia, as is the Government of Spain. But also, I tell you very sincerely, the worst of all is not that you never make self-criticism, as if you had never ruled. I insist: you have ruled every year of democracy in Catalonia, you. When he has not ruled one, he has ruled another. Something will have to do with self-criticism, responsibility. Well, nothing. The worst is not that they don't self-criticise. The worst is not that they propose illusionist solutions rather than realistic ones. The worst is that you are appealing to a principle that I believe today should not have been named in this plenary, which is insolidity. If there is a day where one should not appeal to insolidarity I believe it is in a full of poverty. And today you have again made the speech of insolidarity, of how much we pay Catalans and how little the Government of Spain gives us. Are you aware that there are more territorial inequalities within Catalonia, that within Catalonia there are more inequalities between different cities, between different regions, between different neighborhoods in the same city, than between Catalonia and any other autonomous community in Spain? When you appeal to that insolidity, if we moved it inside Catalonia, more than one would have to climb the colors of the blush. Do you imagine the representatives of the wealthy neighbourhoods of Barcelona saying these messages that you are launching with the rest of Spain? Besides, everything has to be said, based on false data. Because one of the data given by Mr Puigdemont today in his speech has been denied, no more or less, than by Mr Mas-Colell. We do not have to appeal to any Minister of the Government of Spain either. We therefore believe that we cannot always blame others, that we cannot confront the territories and the citizens, that we cannot place insolidity as a guiding principle of governments and, above all, that we cannot do so on the basis of absolutely false data. Look, we want to propose realistic and structural measures. Because there is one thing we share, of course, of what Mrs Crespo has said in her speech: we do not want the problem of poverty to be addressed as a short-term problem, because it is not. It is a structural problem, which is now more visible, which is now harder, yes, but which has always been here with us. And, therefore, we need to reverse certain ways of doing politics that have structurally helped make poverty a reality with us today in society. And there is a quote that says representatives of social workers, who are absolutely right: « Fa nois que fem measures pal·liative. When will we plant the drastic measurements of the foundations? And in this we fully agree. Because what we want to do is measures that do not last a year, that do not last a budget execution, but that last various legislatures, different generations. That's what we think we have to do. That is why we are proposing measures in this House which are covered in three areas. The first, for us, the first area, is to meet existing social needs. Because we can't do anything else, because we have to look into people's eyes and tell them we're doing everything we can. And right now the Government of the Generalitat and the Government of Spain are not doing everything they can to meet social needs, and this is a reality. The second of the blocks is – and not less important – to generate wealth. If we want to distribute wealth, first we have to think about how to generate it, because, if not, in the end, what we will end up sharing misery. And we have to generate wealth, we have to make the middle and working class also have opportunities to generate wealth. And it'll be the best way to redistribute it. And lastly, and I think it's the area where the rest of the parties are less focused, less focused, than they are, where Citizens think they have the bravest position..., and it's reforming the public administration. We need to spend less on political structures and more on programmes and public services. There are other parties that propose measures to increase spending, measures that are then not accompanied by where we can draw resources or how we can increase wealth creation. We want to do all three, we want to say that social needs are met; we want to put in place measures to generate more income and wealth, and we want to say, too, where we can get a lot of budget, which today is unproductive and only serves a few, and only serves political parties. And we have proposed these measures, of course, at the level of Catalonia, but also at the national level, because we are aware that not only from the Government of the Generalitat can these problems be addressed, there are also many competences that are the responsibility of the Government of Spain. And so also, from Citizens, a party born – with great pride, as we always say – in Catalonia, today we are proposing a reform agreement from all over Spain that will also be good for Catalan families, that will be good for people who are unemployed in Catalonia, that will be good for people who cannot pay for electricity and water in Catalonia, that will also be good for SMEs and self-employed people living in Catalonia. As I said, we have measures in these three areas which, of course, we will put to the rest of the parliamentary groups, because our intention is that today we can adopt more measures than those adopted at the 2014 plenary session and that they are, moreover, more structural than those adopted at the last plenary session. In the first area, of meeting social needs, which is undoubtedly the most urgent because people cannot wait for the happy Ithaca of independence, people have to have dignity today – today – in Catalonia, we want to put forward a measure that has recently been incorporated into another country like France, a measure that is already successful in countries like the United Kingdom, like Sweden and which a few hours ago has also been implemented in France, which is the wage supplement. One of the problems we have in Spain is wage poverty, labour poverty. The people who work in Catalonia get up, go to work and remain poor. And for these people we have to give a solution, and for us it is the wage supplement, which would complement the lower incomes, especially, also, those of people who do not have a job throughout the year, but spend the whole year entering and leaving the labour market in a fictitious way. And for them, I insist, we need a measure – which is also assessed as one of the best measures to combat labour poverty – as is the wage supplement. Of course, we also need to reform, once and for all, the minimum income for inclusion, and to ensure a vital minimum income that guarantees, of course, the dignity of people and that is closely linked to training, guidance and employment integration programmes. And the minimum income for inclusion has to be a subjective right, which is not subject to budgetary provision, which is what has happened in recent years. We want to talk, of course, about our measures in child poverty. The children of Catalonia must be subject to non-transferable rights, because they suffer poverty in the first person, and the vulnerability of their families in the first person. And we have concrete proposals in the field of education, in the field of health, in the field of social care; also for children, so that no one steals the future of children who today suffer poverty in Catalonia. Of course, measures also in housing. We cannot have four hundred and thousand empty dwellings in Catalonia and there are families who, having resources and elements to access certain dwellings, remain on the street. There are realistic measures, there are ambitious but rigorous measures, and those are the ones that we propose for the housing stock to be at the service of the people. Of course, we must reverse cuts in basic services, because we understand that cuts in basic services are sometimes the worst expense, because they ultimately generate higher spending when people suffer from poverty, when people, in the end, have to go into a much worse situation to these basic services. Therefore, we are also talking about health, education and social services, because there is no better measure to fight poverty – there is no better measure to fight poverty – than having strong basic public services that cater to all people regardless of their economic situation. The second of the big blocks, and that we, in Citizens, very much like to focus on it, is the creation of wealth. We could not make a plenum of poverty without putting on the table measures to create wealth, so that the working class also generates wealth. And here we would like to talk very specifically – especially – about employment policies. The latest employment data, even those that some governments are selling in a very triumphalistic way, throw an alarming data: increasingly the most vulnerable people are getting out of work opportunities. And that's where active employment policies have to work; that's where employment programmes are really needed, to cater for people who, by themselves, most likely, will never be able to access a paid job. And we don't like anything – we don't like anything – the statement of intentions made by the Government of the Generalitat to consider that active employment policies and social aspects could be in the same department because it's basically the same thing. We think that no, we think that active employment policies have to be closer to businesses, they have to be closer to where jobs are generated. Because, if not, we are in danger of considering what Mr Puig considered: that active employment policies and the SOC had to provide a palliative service – he said in parliamentary office. We don't agree. We therefore put in place measures and proposals to ensure that employment programmes are truly personalized attention, especially to the people who need them most, to the people who are in a situation of greater vulnerability. And they work. People believe that active employment policies cannot work; well, there are examples at European level of policies that do work and that do place many people at work who seemed to be absolutely outside the options of the labour market. Of course, we also want to create wealth from innovation; from innovation and from the weak point we have here in Catalonia, which, although we are very strong in innovation, we are far more lame in technology transfer. And that is an element that we have to work on, that we have to take advantage of the potential that we have in basic research, in innovation, which is very powerful, but we have to make it available to the generation of employment, to the generation of wealth, to be closer to businesses, closer to universities. Of course, we will talk about the pact "More industry; it seems to us that it is a pact that has been agreed by all the entities of the sector and that it is a very valid pact to sustain the muscle of employment in Catalonia, which must certainly also be the industry. I would also like to talk about support measures for self-employed people, entrepreneurs and SMEs. Supporting self-employed people is to avoid poverty; supporting SMEs is to avoid future poverty, and therefore we have measures not only at national level – as everyone knows – to reduce the share of self-employed people and improve their collective, but also credit and support programmes for self-employed people, entrepreneurs and SMEs. And also to fight against something that Mrs Crespo also said, which are the self-sufficient fakes. We certainly believe that, right now, the most precarious jobs, the jobs with fewer rights, are often carried out by false self-employed people. And we also propose measures to reverse this situation. Finally, in the area of wealth, we also talk about equality, because to guarantee equality, as we said, is to create employment, is to create wealth. And we have measures to make conciliation a thing for everyone, so that we can carry forward an hourly reform, in which I believe that there is a fairly broad consensus in this Chamber, to implement measures that make our schedules more productive and that we can therefore have happier and healthier lives, in addition to a much more rational schedule. Finally – and as I say, it is probably the area in which the rest of the parties insist less, it affects less – the reform of the public administration. We will not be able to make a qualitative leap as a society if we do not accept that there are political bars and administrative levels left. And that takes away a lot of millions of euros every year to the taxpayer. I understand that for parties that have colonized these structures for so many years, it is something that costs. But we understand that it is not sustainable, it is not moral to tell people that there is money for municipalities, metropolitan areas, county councils, provincial parliaments, provincial delegations of the Government of the Generalitat, provincial delegations of the Government of Spain, Government of Spain..., it is immoral to tell them that there is money for all this and that there is no money for basic services, for minimum income for insertion or for help to people who cannot give quality food to their children. It's immoral and it's also false. It can be done perfectly, as we always say, « the bikini operation to the Administration. Eliminate fat, which is left over, which is useless – good, only for politicians and parties – and strengthen the muscle, which is basic services, which is health, which is education, which is social services. We understand that this is fundamental, because one of the major problems facing citizens, SMEs and the self-employed, which is bureaucracy, would also be solved. Moreover, I am going to set an example that we are not just denouncing, but the entities working in the third sector, and these are the problems that have also been encountered, for example, in making use of the Energy Poverty Fund. This Energy Poverty Fund, which was provided with a number of resources and which only 22_percent of the resources – of the resources already in place – have been made available to families. Problems? : probably bureaucratic, management problems. But if we are able to do the bikini operation to the public administration, we will be able to reduce bureaucracy that affects families, that affects the self-employed and that affects SMEs. Moreover, of course, we are going to ask for follow-up on all the measures adopted in this plenary, because we want indicators, as Mr Rabell said; we want objective, evaluable indicators to see which of these measures have been carried out; those that have not been carried out, why, and what impact each of them has had. We have not been fortunate enough to face this plenary with a report similar to that of the previous plenary. I hope that if, unfortunately, we have to celebrate another, because we have not solved the problem, we can have a lot more tools to know what works, what does not work, why the Government has not put in place what was approved and, ultimately, be more useful to the citizens. In short, we believe that the fight against poverty requires agreements; it requires cross-cutting dialogue, both in this chamber and outside it; we need consensus; we need support among ourselves. And we are also convinced that there is room for agreement. In this Chamber, if we leave aside certain differences, there is a great deal of room for agreement to adopt measures that are good for the citizens. And we, I insist, will make a loyal and constructive opposition, as always. But to make a loyal and constructive and understanding opposition, we need a realistic, dialogueal and self-critical government. Because in order to solve the underlying problem, we need to give more priority not only to resources, but to time. It's not just how much we spend on social policies, it's how we spend money on social policies. And we also have to collaborate with other public administrations, because this is a question of everyone: this is a question of the municipal sphere, this is a question of the scope of the Generalitat of Catalonia, of the Government of Spain and also of the European bodies. In short, if the Government of the Generality does not assume any responsibility and remains captivated in the magical well of independence, we will not be able to support it. If the Government of the Generality only speaks and devotes its efforts to building one state with one hand, but to destroying the welfare state with the other, they cannot count on us. If the Government of the Generalitat speaks only of countries, but oblivious to people, it will not find Ciutadans at its side. But if the Government of the Generality wants to recognize too..., and do a bit of self-criticism, even though it is a little bit, what has been wrong with the Government of the Generality in more than thirty years; if it wants to reform things so that it is not a short-term problem, only structural solutions; if the Government wants to legitimately negotiate legitimate claims also of the Catalans with the Government of Spain, to do all this, we will be at its side. And, in addition, we would also like to appeal to the agreement and agreement of all political forces because we can make an effort to take measures that are realistic, that are feasible, that are necessary and that, in addition, that are most important, that is to be useful to people. Thank you very much, Madam President, Mr President, Councillors, Councillors. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.26.0	Next, the words of Mrs Eva Granados, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.27.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies and Deputies, and a cordial greeting to the social entities that are accompanying us today, to Teresa Crespo, who made the intervention on behalf of the Poor Zero platform. There have been things that have changed in these two years. The good news is that today we have been able to take the word "entities", the Poor Zero platform, which, therefore, form very many entities, also unions of workers of our country and col·legis. In the first place, I... from the Socialist Parliamentary Group want to thank them for their work, their commitment. Teresa Crespo said here this morning, that they have the calendar with the twelve fronts for inequalities. We also have it in our table and we remember every day that the struggle against inequalities, against the poor, is not an extraordinary plethora, it is not an estona, it is not a day, but it is every political action and our public intervention, every one of our days. I also want to thank the work of the professionals of the entities, of the assemblies, to many mayors and governors who during these years of crisis that we are carrying little work, are in the trench and are attentive to the most vulnerable people of our country. And how can we not please everyone, to set an example, so: as the PAH has been an entity that has shown us the drama of the denunciations and has mobilized us all to end them, and as joints like Terrassa, so, it has been the first to fine the empty floors of the banking entities, and as they are at the head of the municipal housing offices. Well, so, it's been two years; two years when, sadly – we've told everyone that we've been through this cliff – there's more inequality in our country. Yes, we see and positively value a change of attitude on the part of the government. Two years ago, when we were talking about this House there was certain denial on the part of the Government of the Generality, and today we can see that the diagnosis is shared, that we are in a situation of risk in our social cohesion. But just as I say that there has been this change of attitude, and that we value positively, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I also have to say that the intervention we have heard this morning seemed disappointing to us. We would have liked to have found ourselves, even if it was an hour ago, the councillors to coordinate their interventions, so that they would not be left alone and because they did not have the impression that we were listening to, that they were the entities, whether they were citizens or parliamentary groups, that they had a plan beyond an electoral programme and an investment agreement, that they had a coordinated government action to fight against inequalities, and the truth is that we have not seen this, because, unfortunately, it is not there. The president told us that we have to play from little to little, and yesterday the government's spokesman said that the agreements were completed that way two years ago. And our question, the first that we raise, is: did not touch from few to the ground, the Government, when it approved two years ago some agreements that approved Republican Left and Convergence and Union, that they approved themselves, that they knew how the finances were in our country and that they did not comply? Therefore, the government did not touch the ground for a moment when it pulled forward and agreed to these measures that did not go into practice. I want to start my intervention by making three statements that can, if they want, frame the intervention. In the first place – the vice president said this morning – we have an economy that is growing 3.4, the weather is falling, and that's all good news and we have to celebrate. But just as we celebrate these macroeconomic data – Teresa Crespo also said –, the crisis has settled in our society and will be what it was again. We have one third of our people who are directly maligned by or with a lot of work – very, very – precautions without arriving at the end of the month and two thirds of our people who have seen how their salaries have fallen and who have seen how public servants were not at the height of their needs. And the third statement that he also wanted to put up with is that we have not seen the political will on the part of the government to make these priorities before social emergence and the increase of inequalities, the axis of its activity, of political action. Many years have passed, in Catalonia has not reformed the minimum income of insertion, which is how it was inaugurated the Government of Convergence and Union, with an agreement of the student president of the PP, Alicia Sánchez-Camacho, with President Mas. That minimum insert income goes on the same way. And in order not to do so they did not make the report they said they would do so because we all know what the social exclusion situation was like in our country. Therefore, it is no longer just a matter of lack of resources, it is that there was no political will to find out, to make a report of how the situation of social cohesion is. It was an opportunity, this Ple, to get out of the monotheme. And we also regret that in their interventions, what they have come to say is that when Catalonia's independence comes, it will have social cohesion, and we will have to wait. We've heard that before. Councillor Santi Vila said this in 2014, who said that only with a very nationalist speech could bear the 6,000_million of retails that there was during the governments of Artur Mas. And so did Councilman Comín, so lately we've been delighted to hear that when independence comes, the waiting lists will be finished in our country. They want to paint us a very maca Catalonia, but the captivating colors that make us serve a lot of black and a lot of grey that there is under there. We want to escape this speech that is all Madrid's fault. Madrid is responsible for many things, we need to improve funding, we need to dialogue with the government, we need, therefore, that there is no such re-centralisation. We welcome the Constitutional Court's appeal from the LRSAL, but we want to talk about here and the air; we want to talk about the meanwhile; we want to talk about, while up this happy archadia that some fly and that we don't believe in, how pensions will increase and disappear, what happens in Catalonia. And we have three problems that are unstoppable for us: work – work –, families and vulnerable childhood, and the rise of inequalities. These are our three fronts, and that is where we place the emphasis of our political action. We want to be aware, too, of the inaction that the government has made at this time and that we want and expect it to change from this Ple, the evil government that we have had. It is true that in some complicated conditions, we will not deny it, but it is obvious that they have margin, that there is an alternative and that, unfortunately, you are generating more inequalities with your policies. I think the good news is that he's been able to react and there's room, but unfortunately you're not using him for the moment. Miquel Iceta said this morning: "We would like to have a dialogue between the parliamentary groups and the government, which we can reach agreement on, which we get out of this plenary with a few axes, with some measures, with some agreed indicators, and which, above all, we report on what is happening in this plenary. The last Ple, which were the measures approved for Convergence and Union and Republican Left, has been impossible for us to know the degree of development they have had. Only when the government wanted to make a report – and yesterday we were presented with the last version, yesterday at midday – but we couldn't keep the follow-up commissions that many here, in this House, we asked for. I'm beginning to talk about work and right-wing work, which for us is the axis of what we think should be our priority. The work worthy, in the end, is what gives any citizen access to the city with all the rights; which allows him to pay the light, which allows him to change the renter or buy the printer for his child so that he can do the dues. And unfortunately, in Catalonia, even though there is less time, at these times, at the level of quality of occupation the situation is very worrying: collective bargaining has disappeared, the working conditions are very painful, we have poor workers... – there has been talk of it all morning. We're worried about the ladies. Yesterday was March 8th; we talked about the wage gap, the discrimination, the restriction of job offers, the difficulties we have when we want to be seas and seas, and how the female trek returns. And here, to Constellera Bassa, therefore, we tell her that what we have to ensure is that women come to active policies and that there are enough active policies because women can access with equal conditions. It's the same with young people. We are talking about the poor plenary failed, but we could also talk about the monographic plenary of young people failed, because young people in exile, the most precarious young people, young people without any doubt and with a generation that seems to see worse than their parents, they have discrimination in access to the labour market, they are underemployed, they have worse working conditions and the school breakdown that accompanies them and that makes it even more difficult for them to enter the labour market. Are we aware, the government is aware that the youth guarantee program is not working? Are we aware that in the end it's a bad copy of the adult program? What are we gonna do for a second thought? What do we have to think about with the same young people, how can we make it work? Because, for the time being, this isn't getting in the way and it's not working. The same goes for us with the long-running stops. People who have worked for many years, who have lost their jobs due to work adjustments, who are in the dark but who do not cover at all, who do not have access to active employment policies and who most likely see their contributory retirement undermined, and who are often the basis of family savings. We also need a job protection plan for the long-running, long-running people who can reintegrate into the labour market. What's going on, while you're at it? So, the SOC has been dismantled, we've lost 30 percent of the effect to our occupation service. This is meanwhile, these are the conditions in which the workers and the so-called people are to live. And here is not a magic list of programs that are advertised in press notes, statements and marketing, which we see after that is not done. We need a plan, a concrete plan of occupation, which has short, medium and long objectives, and which also has indicators. And that, we regret that Constable Bassa in her intervention today and in her appearance gave us more information than what seems to be promises and dumb paper. We know the margin is small; we don't want to blow up pigeons. The councilwoman knows, because we've tried many times to decentralize policies, which we don't have at these times, yet. But we need facts. We don't want to ask for the moon, but, as the trade unionists say, we want what is ours. So, too, our country's tangles fly what's theirs, too. They were talking about the causes. The vice president, above all, has mentioned the causes, and how they have been accumulating capital and increasing inequalities. How has the proportion of GDP been captivated by what it does to job returns or by what it does to capital returns, and it is obvious that this is where inequality and the poor are the main cause. And that's why we also want redistribution, and we want better wages and better conditions, but also different wages, social wages, public servants. And that's why we too..., and we've been missing the fact that Councilman Baiget didn't come to the Faristol to talk about industrial policies, talk about technological changes, talk about productive models and these possible risks of a new recession. Because, beyond a social plethora – and it is true that we have representation of entities, but there are also unions – we wanted to hear about industrial policy, innovation, research and, above all, concertation. We have the feeling – and I also have to say this – that there is a point of inflection to the council and that we hope that there will soon be this social dialogue that we have not had so far, and that we now hope that there will also be this space, and we hope that the agreement of ‘More industry will follow the umbrella that you allow us to return to this social dialogue. And after work, he gave them jobs and gave them children and vulnerable families, and thus spoke to them about these families that are the new face of the poor. If before the poor she was a great woman, a widow; at these times she is a young family that has difficulties paying mortgage or logger and that has infants in charge. This is the face of the poor in Catalonia and, therefore, here, too, we must put the emphasis of public policies. We have young people who don't leave home, young underemployed people, couples who take care of their parents, who have to pay for their children's bowlers with their pensions; in short, many families who need public services that they can't find. And we regret, therefore, in this case, that Councilwoman Bassa has said that she will do what she informs her that she advised Munté yesterday presented that she said that she had already done so because she had promised to do so two years ago, and this has been the constant of the interventions. What are we staying at? If they said they would, they didn't, but they say they did, and now they say they'll do it again, we don't just hear if we get out of it or not. Göran Therborn is a sociologist who wrote – and now a while ago – a very interesting book that is called Inequality Kills, which talks about how the women of stature men will die before the women that their husbands work. And it's not enough to look at the sociologist: according to the Health Department, he's made about inequalities in how he's raised the suicide rate, and how this suicide rate is especially concentrated in working-age men from forty to sixty years old, and how the crisis is affecting mental disorders, addictions and vulnerability, how these risks of illness are increasing. We also want to talk about all this in the resolutions. Is Catalonia more unequal than five years ago? More than thirty-seven days have passed. Miquel Iceta always said this: "You have come by month, so in thirty-seven days we can already pass accounts. We do not want to make easy complaints or impossible proposals, but we have gone to see the social progress indicator of the European Union. Eurostat analyses, with more than fifty indicators, therefore, a series of variables from 272 European regions, and Catalonia, president, we have a mediocre approval in this indicator of social progress. We have a position of 165 out of 272 European regions and, therefore, there are very many European engines, which we talked about a few years ago, and there is also a lot of this Southern Denmark. In fact, the policies that you have practiced have generated inequality, I said before, I'm going back to say it now. And I want to pose... so, mention and record some words that were used, in this case, by President Mas at the Economic Circle, so he said: "Do not push taxes and lower spending was the counterpoint to excesses and the blurring and demagogy of the left. That's what I gave Sitges a few years ago. Now it seems that there are still leftovers, the councillors of this Government; even so, the Lower Councillor took possession with some scissors that meant and symbolized the retails; but, in 2014, not so much, the President But also visited South Carolina, which is the Tea Party labs, and there McCrory, therefore, was delighted with the political similarities that he found with the policies that the Government was applying. Let's remember that the assumption that you're applying is what you've already approved... the year has passed, so we're on the same political lines. We know that the financial situation is difficult, that we do not want to make complaints easy, but we are on the low, at European level, but, if we look at the autonomous communities, we are at the eleventh position, of all the autonomous communities of Spain. Therefore, the situation we have is inequality and a government that generates inequality with its policies. It is clear that we have arrived here, not all because of the responsibility of the government, but we believe that you are also part of the problem: for your poor management and for your low social sensitivity – we sometimes think that in homeopathic doses, they have this social sensitivity. They have skills, they have assumptions, they have the ability to prioritize, and politics is that, it's priority, and it's the ability to manage. We know the paper can handle everything, the session diary can handle everything, too, huh? What we regret, too, is that the assumptions in this country also bear everything, because the assumptions we have – the Socialist Group said when they were approved – were unrealistic, and today the vice president has told us, I say, but we have understood, Mr Junqueras, right? , when he said that: "From then on the social parties will be shielded, we have understood that perhaps until now there were no shields, these social policies, and, therefore, those headings that come out to the assumptions, therefore, obviously have not been executed. I can't look at the poor girl report, can I? Two years ago, I don't want to see if he's pleased or not, we already knew: they haven't. But now we're going to take the 100-million, remember? , the current secretary of economics..., I don't see him here, but Mr Aragones came out here and said: "It is the last autonomous assumptions that we will vote for the Left and have a game of 100_millions, which will be the social turn that we will give to the Government of Catalonia. 100 million, where are these 100 million? We're not talking about powerpoints, we're talking about presumptive parties, are we? There were 10_millions for poor energy, and here..., corrects Mrs. Arrimadas, because Mrs. Borràs did make a bit of self-criticism and said: "It was 10_millions, which came to 5, under the assumption. Yeah, half of them got lost on the way. And of these 5, they were adjusted and applied, what, 2_million? Is this the ability to react to the energy poverty? So, look, just together, it's the social entities, it's the metropolitan area, the ones that made it possible to pay the bills that we've been able to, because many, unfortunately, still have some kind of light, so much so that you say it's not like that. They said they'd also put 17 million extraordinarily into dependence. So, it's increased 17_millions, a 17_per_cent list waits for the last year. At these times we have as many people on the waiting list as people attached to their homes and residences. That's the reality. And, for what it does at the minimum income, that they gave the right subject to this and the other, they said that they were 12_million, but we did make numbers and we have – and the report of the Greuges Syndicate says it – that they still have plans to pay 2011 numbers... – the Socialist Group does not say it, said the Greuges Syndicate – and we made numbers that more than thirty-one_1,000 PIRM reports have been denied for the Department, in this case, of Social Action and Work. That's the reality. There were more matches, huh? , in these 100_millions of social gir: special educational needs, which we have not seen; disability residences, that is to say, little to the parties and less to the executions. Is this where Madrid steals us or does the Generalitat deceive us? I am a question to which I would like to find an answer, because it was an unreal assumption, but it is an unreal assumption, because this is the assumption that is in force at these times in Catalonia. So neither did I say that this was the other government, that we have to value ourselves... No, this is the assumption that is being applied and we understand that it was either misleading and/or mismanaged advertising. They've made us a public report from the rock board, which is this agreement, right? , of investiture they hold with the CUP. And the social entities have told them, we say it again – I think we have given it to all the appearances – that it is too late; that it is insufficient; that three measures are what can be done, two of which are to apply laws that are in force, and that the rest depend on assumptions that I do not know if they will arrive, and that Vice President Junqueras has said that, if they arrive, they will be unfair, difficult and very far from what Catalonia needs. Therefore, this is the situation in which we are located. Measured for attitudes, in this plan of coc, measure for industrial policies. We understand it's a sham plan to cover the shipment. I don't know if we're going to get to see the assumptions, but it's obvious that we haven't just been talking, if the assumptions we have at these times aren't complete either. After the plenary of the poor, the minimum income that is not reform, the agreement of Convergence and Esquerra that we see that neither applies, what we tell them is that we do not want plans of shock, we do not want extraordinary, but we want the political axis and the dynamic day to follow the struggle against the poor. What do we see? That they do not negotiate with the State, that they do not pay the entities and the local world, that they do not manage– ATLL, Tabasa –, that they do not administer the premise– this is the feeling–, and, moreover, that they do politics with an other ideological component in the sense of regression and antisocial. I only mention, with the time I have left, educational policies. The sixth hour is taken to the public; the schools that secret by sex coexist in the barrels in which the public school is in barracks; we have the compact papers to the institutes, which means that they have to open social beggars or that the Red Cree has to put themselves to make specific programs because young people can eat at midday; that 90_percent of the lines of P3 that are tanked, are public lines... I can say that this is a topic of crisis, of lack of resources, but I, when I do this reading and see this dualization between the public school and the concerted school, what I see is ideology. And the same thing happens to us with minimum income. When the reform was carried out, there was Councilman Mena, there was an agreement with the People's Party, now they have spoken that it was a matter of more resources, but it is obvious that the structure continues to feel the same. That is why we want, in our resolutions, to incorporate the return, the PIRMI, to the minimum income that there was in 2010. This morning we saw each other with socialist mayors, and we were going to take care of how they see each other and what petitions they're going through in this House. And the mayors, our mayors and mayors, had concerns that they mainly have to deal with family and childhood issues, and do their rest, and we talk about children and children with special educational needs and how they find themselves with many difficulties in ordinary school, and how special education schools have much to do with being able to enter them. They were also talking to us about how the assemblies had to devote a lot of resources – President Puigdemont sure that he also knows, because he has been mayor – to pay bills and enable housing offices to deal with this law we have, but it is not regulated, that it has not been applied, and that it is obvious that it falls on the scales of the assemblies and municipal assumptions that the fact of being able to pay the bills of poor energy. They told us, too... I mentioned the situation of the great people, of the attention to dependence, and they talked about how the non-entry to the residences, like the waiting lists of more than a thousand people in order to be able to access a public square, assumed that the assemblies would have to have adequate resources to be able to attend to the great people at their home, and as the services of home care did not arrive, and therefore it was also the municipal public assumptions that were drawing. They tell us, social entities, which way they also have to look for props, private resources, because the subsidies they expect from the Generality, that they have compromises..., so they don't have, they don't have a payment plan for when they will forgive this debt. And the joints, president, councilors... the joints are the same: they want them to recognize their debt and they want to have a payment plan to know when they can do it. We know that the financial situation is difficult, but there are other autonomous communities, with a financial situation similar to ours, which are in operation. It is obvious that they do not have the margin, as we do not, to remove all inequalities. But Ximo Puig, Francina Armengol, Lambán, in the proper autonomous communities are, in a similar financial situation, making gestures, making policies that we do not see in their action. For example, co-sponsorship will be one of the themes that we'll talk about tomorrow, because we'll carry it in one of the resolutions. We reversed the co-payment they applied, because they were obedient to what Mr. Rajoy said. The Ximo Puig has been able to pull this covet. It's a confiscating co-op, the entities say, we call it a lot of parliamentary groups; in fact, the council also seems to tell the entities... so we do what other autonomous communities are doing. València is also reviewing the dependency, and they are placing the degrees that it touches on the needs that large people have, people with dependence. Do it! We are still able to make payments, and also, of course, Councilwoman Ruiz said this morning, she was talking about groceries, to us it is a subject that concerns us very much, because, in the end, for a lot that is talked about there is more money for scholarships, the scholarships do not arrive. And this should be a right guarantee: those I needed should be able to access a scholarship, and if politics is to prioritize, the margin is small, but we have the margin to be able to pay the scholarships that the... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Counselor, you've got a lot to talk about, do you want to come? Yes, yes..., because the esthetic constantly listening, yes... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right. I'm done. [[Widow's remorse.]] I just said that there were..., that there is margin, that other autonomous communities are making it, autonomous communities that have fiscal deficits similar to ours, that there is alternative..., not all the margin we want, president, but there is alternative to making a social agenda for our country; a social agenda that attacks social emergencies, that attacks basic needs, that we pay bills for lighting, gas and water. There's money, under the assumption, we make it possible. Fem, too, attack the feeding alleys and we get, therefore, that entities have the resources they need for their day to day. For another band, and another block that we also want to propose you have to see – Miquel Iceta said this morning – with the presentation of the assumptions. We want to know what margins they have, if there will be a review of the inheritance tax that we all expect and if there will be a negotiation with the Government of the State, which looks like we're starting to see it, so that we can have more margins of assumptions and hold the beasts and FLA that we need. The industrial package for us is also important, the social dialogue to be opened. And lastly, we've all said it, and I think all the companies that I'm talking about from now on, the spokespersons, we want this whole to end with concrete measures and these measures to have a follow-up and a compliment check, and so we're also asking that there be a follow-up plan for this whole. This is the diagnosis we make from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, these are our proposals, they have our hand, our willingness to agree, and we hope that this plenary, therefore, will serve for something more than it served two years ago. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.28.0	Next, there's the word "Mrs. Marta Ribas," from Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.29.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, advisors, deputies, deputies, and welcome..., to greet also the members of the various entities that today are here with us, and to the citizenry that, sure, we hope that you are following this plenary, because today in this Parliament, we are making a debate of country ; we are making a debate to give response to the close to 2_million people – a meridian well full of people – who are at risk of poverty and social exclusion in Catalonia ; 2_million people who see their lives as being more precarious and their lives as being more ignored, while there is a privileged minority who continue to enrich themselves. This is Catalonia, today: a small country, a fractured country, and not by national elements or language, but by the social inequality that we suffer. Is this the country we accept for our present? Is this, above all, what we want to build for our future? Well, as Teresa Crespo told us this morning, on behalf of the Poor Zero platform, if we don't put in deep changes, we won't just feel complicit in violating the current rights of Catalan citizenship, but we'll be building the poor of the future. This Parliament must therefore respond to a clear dilemma in this debate: are we prepared to resolve the current emergencies, but at the same time change the direction of policies? We, yes; Catalonia Yes, it is.We are willing to work in this sense. And we understand that we need to go through phases, that we can't change everything at once. But there's got to be a bunch of iniciators from which we turn the rudder, from which, without hesitation, we change the course. And the first phase of this change of course must allow us to attend to those most flagrant situations of social emergence, of thousands and thousands of people and families who cannot wait, nor do they divide, nor do they divide, nor do they six months, nor do they. This point of hints can be this Plea, this Plea of social emergence, and this is our intention. To reorient the policies, however, we first agree in the diagnosis of the causes of this situation, of what has not been well oriented so far, and admit who were the mistakes in order to be able to bring them back, not to commit them again. And we have not started well, in this sense, this plenary, with the interventions of the government, starting with the president, do not admit that there have been many misguided policies these past years and do not admit that we will not get results applying the same receipts to us. Please, tell him, counselors and counselors, to the president that they are not worth or keep words about deceptions to avoid frustration dedicated to the rest of the parliamentary groups of this chamber; the only frustration that will occur in this chamber – and that we should be concerned – is that we are not responding to the situation we are analysing in this House. There's a lot of deures hanging to do, a lot of them. It seems to me that today I am not the only person who told President Puigdemont that there are many dues to do. Mr. Mas said it in an interview; we hardly agree with him, surely he didn't say it in the same way as we did, but today Mr. Mas also said that it is not possible to presume to do what it is not possible to do. Well, let's take this seriously – and let's regret that it didn't start like this – how many times there were pending to do and let's try to make a joint diagnosis to detect if there are any points of agreement on which we can build together new routes, we walk and new answers. What's our diagnosis? The diagnosis, obviously, must recognize that the poor are not new to Catalonia, that there have been no such thing for years and years, and that we have not managed to eradicate any of the governments that we have been to the Government of Catalonia, of course. But it must also be recognized that the last few years, not just the poverty indexes, but their gravity, and especially social inequality, have increased at alarming rates. If so far this country has not suffered any setbacks, it is because there was a certain social agreement, a minimum welfare state and a labor market that allowed us to continue working to try to sleep with more egalitarian societies; a social investment soil, a social investment land that, as Councillor Junqueras said today, substantially reduced the effects of an unjust economic system – is certain. But this deal, these past few years, is over. The pressure of the public education, health and social services system has consequences: 200,000 families who see no admissions, 43 families denominated a day, a 10_percent of Catalans who cannot scalp their homes, large people or people with functional diversity who have to live with thirty-seven euros a month because of the co-payment of residence or other dependent services that need to live at least a dignified life, young people who do not see future beyond precariousness, 480,000 children at risk of poverty. We are talking about rights, basic rights, rights guaranteed for numerous declarations and universal conventions, and for our laws, and for the State of Catalonia: right to food, to housing in conditions, right to access to education and health, right to a dignified life; rights that today are not being guaranteed. Someone will have to pass accounts from here to two years for a whole generation that will have grown without their rights guaranteed. All of us will have to pass accounts from here to two years if we haven't been able to reverse the situation to secure the rights for a whole generation. And we need to look at who the causes of this are, who were the mistakes made to get here. We need to review it, we need to correct it if we want to make a pact of minimum country objectives to refer to that social agreement that broke down in the past few years. We're all sorry about the poor. I'm sure no one in this Parliament wants our society to be poor. But there is not enough to regret it: to identify its causes and to act to change them. Let's do it; at least our analysis of what these causes are. The cause is the crisis? Look, it's been a long time since the crisis has felt the cause, but it's an excuse to push for a model change in economic, social and speech relationships. Is the cause Europe? Home, the policies of the European Union have collaborated, and enormously, to drive this model change. But perhaps we reflect if we continue to feel the cause of Europe, when Catalonia is one of the European countries where inequalities have increased the most in recent years, when in the years ahead of the crisis the levels of inequality in Catalonia were lower than in the European media. Is Madrid the fault? We can share and share the eternal economic maltreatment on the part of the Government of the State, but it cannot be used as an excuse to cover up classic policies that have taken place, too, since the Catalan Government. It is true that Catalonia is significantly below the state average in all indicators of school scholarships, food grants, coverage and intensity in these senses, and we are also in the process of reducing assumptions, paradoxical in an environment of increasing social needs. Whose fault is it, then? So, of concrete policies; of concrete policies, of political decisions that have destroyed the occupation and its quality; of details that have reduced the weight of social expenditure and that have caused us to be by under, and even under, the Spanish medium, like the so-called now, in some elements; of tax cuts on income and wealth and the retreat of wages, that have also created the gap between Catalonia and the European Union in fiscal pressure, and in income, which limits, and very much, the political capacity that we have to fight against inequalities. Without sufficient public resources, it is not possible to try to hold the same conditions and the same levels of welfare as other countries. All this is not about the cell, all this has been voted in parliaments and decided by governments. Political forces have decided that they are also in this Parliament. It was decided from here, it was decided from the Congress, it was decided from the European Parliament. They have violated and are violating human rights as a result of political decisions. And just changing these political decisions and facing each other, we'll be able to capture these circumstances and get out of them. Do we therefore want to build a new country and a future for Catalonia together or do we want to make it leave a quarter of the population behind? Do we want to respond to this current situation with care and charity policies or do we want to do so, as we have always wanted the left, guaranteeing rights? Can we allow the political atollin-left forces classists of this Parliament? I don't think so. As we believe not, we are sure that we can do this reflection together with much more people in this Parliament. Catalonia is not poor, but the wealth is very poorly distributed. We can act on the distribution of this rich, in this country, if we want the net and free band to have a fair country as well. And we're offering them a first deal. We will recognize you that everything we are going to propose is not easy, but you recognize us that you cannot be trying to avoid the debate of the air, of the meantime, promising earthly paradises for a few months from now. And it can, it can attack all this; it can if we talk about political priorities. It's not easy – I told them, I'll recognize it – but it can. The assemblies, which have suffered with whom most the policies of presuppostarial adjustments, those of Europe, those of the State, and the incompliments of the Government of Catalonia in the payments that they had to make respect for the services that are the competence of the Generality, have been able to reorient their presuppostarial priorities and give it an answer. Do you know that the Barcelona Assembly has doubled its contribution to the call for help from the fooder? At the initial EUR 8_million_i_mig there have been 8_million_i_mig more. This is a political priority. You know..., you know, Constellera Ruiz, that to the 300,000_euros your department brings to Barcelona in support of families to buy school material, the Barcelona Assembly has added 1_million more, three times more than the Generality's? You know, Mr. Munté – and I'm heading to you because it's the one who made the cofoist rest of what the government did in the last few years – you know who paid the scholarships for couples from summer, food, including Castelldefels, the past, was the assembly? Do you know, Consellera Bassa, that, before the col·lapse and the management of help to recognizable people with a degree of dependence, all these months that continue without the help they already have as right, who are giving them the answer are entities and are together? You know, you know perfectly well. It's the gatherings that are doing this. He knew perfectly the Lord Junqueras, who was mayor; he knew perfectly the Lord Puigdemont, who was mayor. Therefore, it is possible. But we need to redirect priorities: to stop doing other strategic actions, as the assemblies have done, to cover what is really in a hurry for the citizens of their cities and their peoples. Can we do that from the government of the generality as well? Do you also want to be part of the Government of the Generalitat? We wait, sure, we know that it can be done, and that when it is done, they have results. I repeat what you said today, Mr Junqueras, there were results when there was social reversal. Also, I can give you an example of accompaniments, of an accompaniment that has made decades that prioritizes social spending: the Prat de Llobregat. It's Spain's second least unequal city. It's not because it is. There's priority and there's priority effects. From the Catalan government it can also be done. And we want to make proposals to them, and tomorrow, obviously, we will bring them by means of resolutions – no, I don't know what thanks it makes for talking about political priorities, deputies of Junts for the Yes –; proposals that we want to make viable, proposals that are not structural to the poor and inequality, we recognize, but proposals that can help us solve the current situation of social emergence. A plate of rock, with the finalities that no infant passes wins: feeding beaks. De facto, open-ended, de facto, constable Ruiz, no traps, no traps to be lowering each time the shield they fix to access the guaranteed scholarship. Because they're giving themselves eighty thousand scholarships, there's 300,000 students under the umbrella of the poor. We don't have traps – we don't have traps –; we don't have traps to talk about, now, precisely, proposals to compact school hours by eliminating eating spaces. Now you can't do that. We are talking about proposals, so that there is no family without land, in order to complete the law of housing, the law approved the past summer, which provides for second-opportunity mechanisms to avoid disclaimers; we deploy it regularly from everything to complete everything that has been approved in this very Parliament also respects people without land. A young woman who passed months and months ago: compliment, zero. Proposals to end energy poverty, to make water, light and gas sub-ministrators complement the law and cover the expenses of families at risk of social exclusion. You propose because the resources you have from the Administration are spent on this and not, I insist, on what Counselor Borràs has already made self-criticism this morning. Proposals to protect the most vulnerable as well, and to repeal co-opting in dependence, that which was taken out of the hand of the Catalan Government, Mrs. Munté, and which was not marked for the Spanish Government, nor applied to other communities with the formula that is being applied here, and which is leaving many people, as they said before, with thirty-seven euros per month to live. Proposals to resolve cases of survivable irregularities, which are leaving many veins and veins without access to basic rights. Proposals for young people, who are painted in a 58_per_cent precariousness; proposals for women, who continue to feel the face of the poor. Proposals that are not structural attacks on the poor, but also, obviously, we want to propose some to deal with these structural causes with important assumptions: the PEUC, an economic benefit per child; or the guaranteed income of citizenship. The circumstances in which we are making this a matter of urgency, and when we finish the parliamentary debate we expect in the presuppositions of parties to be able to do so in the long run. It is urgent; not only to attack poverty and inequality, but also because we are in a cycle that is not going anywhere, of social services overflowing with nine demands, of nine situations for which they have few answers and mostly only emergency responses that do not respond well to the situation. We need to rearrange it, all folded; we need to guarantee minimum returns; we need to do it well. And this means laying structural solutions, of present and future, respect for yields. And while – and while – indeed, return to right the minimum income of insertion and revert to what was approved in 2011 by Convergence and Union and PP in this chamber. Senzilla propositions? No, they are not sensile proposals; we have told them. But if there is a political will, they can be viable. If gatherings with smaller assumptions, as I said before, have been able to capture priorities, why can't the Generality? Two-hundred_seventy_million euros is a 0.5_percent of the Generality's budget. The Barcelona Assembly, from September to December, allocated to an emergency plan a 4_per_cent of its presupposition, a presupposition that came to it inheritance from the previous government. They will say: "Barcelona is great and rich. Assembly of Santa Perpetua de la Mogoda: the past June approved an emergency plan that is a 3.2_per_cent of its premise; it has already been executed in a 90_per_cent. It's possible. Can we move from this 0.5_per_cent to a 3 or a 4_per_cent, how do you get together? Two-hundred_seven million euros from a shoal is what the Government of Catalonia can put on this priority? It's not simple, it's not easy; we don't have a simple financial situation in Catalonia, that's right. But please, don't insult our intelligence by saying that it's all Madrid's fault in this respect. At least they don't tell us those who are part of the party that voted for the mark that scans us financially. We take his glove, Mr. Junqueras, to help them, to accompany them in everything they can do to claim the fair resources of the Government of the State. Fair claim of just resources, yes, sir. But you also forgot to talk this morning about the margin they have in fiscal policies from the Generality. We have at this time a regressive and weak tax structure in the recaptancy, which greatly limits the government's political capacity for the long term, such as the earlier days, counter-social policies. Therefore, a change in this camp is urgently needed: we also have different entry policies from those of the Generality. Redistributive policy from the ability we have now; we already have. Brave and effective policy to fight against tax fraud, valued at €13,000_million; we can reduce a share of this tax fraud and direct it to a shoal. We have significant margins for increased entry with the inheritance tax. They did not speak concretely, Mr Junqueras, about the imposition of estates. Think of putting some measure in that direction? And reform the patrimony? There is margin, a lot of margin, to refocus priorities; also with extended assumptions. And let's put them again as one of the themes that we need to say again and again: 29_million euros that we will be reassigning this year to concerts in the elite schools. Let's talk more at the plenary of the coming week, from a proposal of law of Catalonia Yes it is Pot. These measures cannot be described as excessive or impossible, as they are being proposed, as fiscal margins from the general budget. On the contrary, they are initial measures, only initial measures. We also want... we think there's a lot of room to run if we're talking about restructuring the debt, about us being taxed, or about the better management of existings to get more tickets, as well as the review of the whole set of subsidies that's not meant to cover social needs. Catalonia is a rich country. We have this wealth to serve the common good, we were asked this morning by Teresa Crespo. Nothing we're planting is easy. It's politics, it's political management, and the question is, who do you want to rule for? For that richest person in Catalonia who has a wealth equivalent to 150,000 people, or for two million people who are at risk of poverty and social exclusion? Do we want to make policies from this Parliament of Catalonia to rescue banks or to rescue people? We do not want this plenary to re-create frustration, as it happened in the March 2014 plenary of the poor, and therefore we commit ourselves not only to the participation of civil society at all times – we congratulate ourselves that this time we can start the plenary with the view of civil society – but there is the view of civil society always, following the compliment of the proposals we make in this plenary and in the debates of more concrete elements that can come back and, obviously, in the more substantive debates that we have to make during this legislature. We shall propose that there be also a committee to follow up on the agreements reached in this House immediately. And as the entities have also asked us... These days, in the campaign we did on Twitter from Catalonia Yes, it's Pot, they answer us a few entities. Caritas, for example, said to us: "Practice, agree and act all folds. FAPAC was asking us for concrete measures, supposition. The tides came to us yesterday at the door of Parliament to explain to us various proposals, and they asked us to listen to those proposals that they made to us from years ago, but that they also made to us from the campaign of 27 September. Well, then, we've listened to it, and we'll make proposals willingly of realism. We must approve solutions that are necessary and viable. And I tell them all, and so I return one of the statements made today by President Puigdemont: it is not a matter of anyone, nor the opposition, nor the Government, nor the groups of this Parliament that support the Government, we parapet in a comfort zone. None: neither the government, nor the groups that support the defensive saying that it is not possible, or that we can from now on divide, nor the opposition making petitions for proposals of maximum that could not obtain the support of other parliamentary forces. We put ourselves in it. I'm done. To resolve this situation, therefore, we do not need small reforms, we need to tackle the causes of inequalities in order to resolve this situation that we have made this diagnosis, I believe, shared, many of the groups of this chamber. But in this House we won't be asking this, we won't be asking the government every time that it becomes mostly leftovers, which isn't. We would not be asking that from today's government confront the currents and forces of a saving and patriarchal capitalism that causes social malalty of inequality, but we would be asking them to act on everything that they can't keep waiting for. Catalonia Yes, it can pursue and continue to struggle to cure this malalty of funds. It's our sense of being, it's our sense of being. But already the advances that in our resolutions in this House we will propose receptions for, as at least, closing those bloodiest wounds of the social emergence. Yes, we also warn you: this social wound is no longer close to a dash of 270_million euros. I need a surgical procedure. And the more we cheat to do it, the more complicated and the more expensive the intervention will be. Are you willing to move'sfrom this 0.5_per_cent of the presupposition to a rock plate? , of these 270_million euros for a plate of rock? We wear five years of policies that have plagued and opened up every time the wound, and since September 27th we wear half a year of inaction, which has only served because the effects of this wound continue to increase. There's no time to lose; neither seven months, nor months, nor even half a year. Closing the wound of social emergence is taking hold in this country. President, counselors, counselors, it's okay, if they fly. The gatherings have proved it. Do they pose? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.30.0	Next is the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez of the Popular Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.31.0	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Honourable President of the Generality, Vice President, Councillors, Members, Associations and Entities that you are today..., and accompany us, and you have waited for this debate to be given by the President that it was opportune, so opportune that we have waited for new months to do so, but we are here as well. And Mrs. Teresa Crespo framed this morning the outline of the debate. And he really drew us a dark and bitter square, because bitter is the life of many people in Catalonia, bitter is the life of so many people that he has dealt with, that he knows, she and the entities that today push us to make this Ple. We are addressing today the traces of the poor and social exclusion, which are not the majority in our society, but there are – there are – and they mark the lives of many and many people, thousands and thousands of Catalans. They are not the whole square, but they are part of the square, and we commit injustice if we say: "This is Catalonia, because it is not the founding element of our society, but we also commit a major injustice if we say that this does not exist, if we omit this reality; among other things, because these people who suffer are the main reason for our political dedication. And I think that the deputies of this chamber are aware of the situation of difficulty, of the emergence of many people; but today's plenary is a very interesting occasion to lower the walls of this chamber, this chamber that was a fortress in its time and that sometimes it can become a castle, and we don't need to lower the walls because we also get the thrill of the anguish of so many people who are going through it very badly, who do not arrive at the end of the month, who find nothing to give to eat, sometimes, to their little ones. And I think the Catalans are right in our sights, because we have concrete, reasonable agreements, to solve the problems of their lives, and because our common humanity steps ahead of our different ideologies. Therefore, I think we must conjure ourselves up because this common humanity finds harmony to solve the problems of these people that are so barely passing through. And I would like to address this issue and make it pleasurable in the present, but also by the hand and claiming and demanding that strong social perspective of the driving forces of Christian democracy that we have often forgotten even ourselves. And I would like to quote Manuel Giménez Fernández, who was one of the driving forces in Spain, a hundred years ago, from this current – that perhaps the Councillor Comín, therefore, will also agree – when he said, a hundred years ago or less: "If anyone has to sacrifice himself, let it be those to whom everything is left and not to whom everything is missing. As excruciating as theft is usury, fraud and squandering. So, this spirit of the first Christian democracy is what I think we should also claim from my party. I don't want to expand by describing the facts of the situation; they did it, they did it well enough and enough representatives of civil society, other companies, reports we've had long ago. We know that at home there are 500,000 people with severe material deprivation, we know that there are 21_percent of Catalans at risk of poverty, we know that there are almost 30_percent of Catalans in a vulnerable situation and we know that the situation could be much worse; it could be much worse if it were not for this system of social protection and redistribution of wealth, a system and principles of protection and redistribution that sometimes you with your speech pose in doubt – and then I will return to that point. We could be worse off if it wasn't for the compromise of so many gatherings in Catalonia – and some other group didn't make it too – of very different colors, which stretched their hand there where the Generality's arm was short. We know that the situation could be much worse if it were not for the heroic fortitude of so many Catalan families, especially of so many opinions and avies, who for years have taken their lives and their children's, and today, too, with their thoughts, do the miracle of breads and fishes, with many personal renunciations, and manage to take their lives, their children's and even their grandchildren's. We want to sincerely thank all of them for their efforts. And we also have a debt of gratitude with entities, which have resisted in such difficult situations, sometimes without charging what they correspond to; entities without any work, entities that have been gang, accompanying, console, force, occasion to recommend to so many people that at a time donated during these years have seen that life was being felt. And discordantly we can't say the same as the Government of Catalonia, we can't say. And I have to tell you, President, that I was very sorry for your speech this morning, very late, and it hurt me, because you can't use the Ple of the poor to make an independent rally, because you can't turn people's patience into political marketing, because it seems to me that it's a great time to build a new state about victimism, resentment, selfishness; that's progress, President? And besides, it's that you did it especially, not the other counselors. Is this the revolution of smiles or is it the retreat of selfishness? Some think this way of putting a stellate in your life and everything will be all right. So no, councilman Junqueras; no, president. We won't get the virginal paradise laying the stellate at the Plaça Sant Jaume. And this speech that you're making is triple-duly-duly-duly-duly-duly-duly-duly-duly-duly-duly-duly-duly-duly-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du-du. First, because you voted for the main economic and social laws of the legislature, and so you can't come here as if it were all the others' fault, because you voted for the Law of Presuppositional Enabling, and you voted for labor reform, and, if not, those who didn't vote for it, give support to a government that voted for it. You have also voted, and the tripartite government said it was the best of history; you voted, Convergence did not vote, but you did vote, and it is cynical to say that this is the fault of all evils when you were responsible for this system. It's cheating, too, to say that with independence we'd have all the resources of this small amount of money that you present to us. Listen to me, Bavaria also has a situation..., and claims more money for it and, also, doesn't say: "So let's get through it all, let's go and mount a European chicken that gets buried... Things are fan in another way, in this civilized life. And, besides, you associate that independence, that a unilateral split like what you want to do, would also have direct repercussions on the lives of Catalans, their businesses. Or don't you remember that a third of the Catalan jobs depend on our commercial relationship with the rest of Spain? Or don't you know what happened in other countries when there was independence, that a third of the trade flow collapsed? And, finally – and perhaps it's the most important, and I gave it to them before another group – it seems to me ethically reprehensible to me this speech that you made, President, because it's poor to use the same speech that Umberto Bossi makes in Italy; it's poor to accept the most obvious selfishness as an instrument to break a human community. And we told them, what would it look like to them if the Saint Gervasi saw them saying they didn't want to pay the City Vella? Or what would the Vallès seem to say that they do not want to contribute to the expenses of the Priory? You follow a strategy of broadening the basis of the process through a denationalization of the report and an accent on the social axis, and it's funny, because, in the end, you know what can happen to them? That when this is fumigated it's out of you without birth and without process. Because it's funny how – yesterday, Mr. Mas did it himself – they're reneging on the national argument as pure strategy. But when one says that the only argument is economic, it says that the national issue is the same, there can come a time that, if the economic issue is solved... It is that, moreover, the Lord But said yesterday – said yesterday and is very curious, eh? – he said: "We must not present ourselves to Europe as nationalists, nor must we introduce ourselves as we want more money. Here, but if that's what they say 50 years ago, you. What do they say, then? And I ask myself, President, and Members of Parliament... that we are doing an exercise in imagination and politics-fiction. Imagine 'hoper a moment, huh? It's that I, preparing for this intervention, was thinking about these three years later, and I was going through the demonstrations, the trains, the buses, the stelades, the media, the plans, the doors, the courts, I don't know what, everything, everything, was going through me, and I was thinking: you imagine that – everyone, huh? , not just you– have we all dedicated to the struggle against the poor a third – a third – of the time, of the efforts, of creativity, of the astute, of the debate, of the energies that we have dedicated to the independence process? It's that Catalonia would be the nation, and the community, the nationality... [[The timer laughs.]] Nationality, as the constitutional term says. [[Rialles and some applause.]] Catalunya would be... [[Widow's remorse.]] I can do it again. [[The timer laughs.]] Well, I'm leaving... now I'm leaving your speech. Listen, do you know what's going on? Do you know what's going on? And now I'm going to say one thing, since we're here – now I'm going to say one thing – that sometimes we have to unlock language and that reality is polysemic, concepts have a lot of nuances, okay? [[Widow's remorse.]] Here I leave it, if it takes a day to unlock the situation... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's have another thought: so many millions dedicated to the process, so many mobilizations, so many communication campaigns, so much cunning to deceive the State, so many internal bars between the parties, so many words and replicas, so many plans to the daily, so much effort, so many energies, so many resources... If we are left with energy! Do you imagine what it would mean to put this to the cause of justice? And a sign of maturity is to assume one's own responsibilities and not constantly accuse others. But you say to us, "It's when we have the state... but how do you want us to believe in when we have a state if you don't manage autonomy well? If they have converted Catalonia into a purgator of the debt, of the bureaucracy, of the public intervention. There are people who accuse them of poor social will, and I won't, but I do think they missed it, firm will. You have done a limited, continuistic, palliative, death-free social policy. They lacked creativity in social policy. In this House we have seen a set of measures, many measures, but what is the great strategic line of social policy? We told them about the previous legislature, you put the turbo of social structures and, in change, you put the slowing down of social structures. Say... what have they done? "Home, we approved a law that you have brought to the Constitution. Is it true that they always talk to us about the law that we have brought to the Constitution? So, look, I think – I think – one has to take the honor of adopting measures on which man has skills, and don't make toast to the sun with the blisters of the day, because, if not, sometimes, the one that makes the Generality reminds me, or makes me think of a person who mounts a big party and says: "Come, we have a party, and invite all his friends, and says: "The address is..., and gives the address of the house of the day. And when we all go up to the party – when we all go up to the party –... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. No, it's not a worry. Maybe if his group makes him more playful, then he'll be able to intervene, but the... [[The timer laughs. Widow's remorse.]] I'm sorry, aren't I? - Excuse me. [[The timer laughs. Relieving of sight and laughter.]] It seems... it's that today we have no news and I had so many wishes to intervene... I'm sorry, no, no; I didn't want to open the debate. [[Rialles.]] I repeat, what you're doing is as if I'm having a party... everyone, and you've invited a lot of friends and given the address of the day. And when the people come up to the house of the see, they ring the bell and the see says, "No, no, listen to me, it's that I'm repairing a canon of water that has flooded me absolutely everything. You can't go in the house. And, then, you, who have set up the saying party: "This see, it is that it is unbearable, it is that it is an uncle...... a selfish and does not think about anything. And, besides, you, who, too... blame it's the eye, reinforce your speech and spread any responsibility. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Llach, yes. And you have a lot of skills and you haven't managed them well. And proof is, in my opinion, the tension that social entities have been subjected to. The proof is that we are six years old with the Law of Rights of Childhood and Adolescence and it is not yet fully deployed. And we asked the councilwoman, and I ask her – isn't there, but – the government is committed in a year to deploy it and provide it presuppositionally? You, as much as you talk about poor energy – and you know it well – only covered a 20_per_cent of your fund. Clearly, this is where bad things have been done. Or a date that didn't stand on the table, or on the Faristol: on November 2015, of the active policies of occupation, you had only executed a 36_per_cent– a 36_per_cent. That's hard. We're talking about having a hard time, and the main game to fight the hard time, that they're active employment policies, and you don't deploy it. Ladies and gentlemen, you can say: "You turn into a category, anecdotes. So, anem to the categories – anem to the categories. The left always tells us... – they didn't do it today, maybe – I thought – I thought –: "Home, the Socialist Party and Catalonia Yes, it is They can have so much interest in the poor that every time they rule, they increase and multiply it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, you, in any case, always tell us – quite rightly – that we have to go to the scene of the problem – to the scene. So, let's get to the game. What's the angle of inequality? , – what's the issue of inequality? The economic crisis. You said to me: "Not now. But, look... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, miri, Gini's tax has increased to Spain 7.5 points; 6 of these 7.5 points come from the twilight. Between 2007 and 2011, when the Socialist Party – and you in Catalonia – ruled Spain, exclusion grew five times faster in Spain than in the European Union. And, then, we can do a first logical sil·logism, which is to say: "If the cause is the lack of work, the first social policy is to generate work. There is no counselor, but I told her the other day in committee, I say: "I like that the name of occupation has changed to work, because occupation is a bit of a thing, therefore, as arbitrary; in change, work is a grounding, foundational reality, that vertebrates life. The work worthy of the space of personal deployment, of resources, of sense vector, of socialization, and therefore we have to break the banyas so that people can work. And here we seem to agree. And someone said: "We must be imaginative. So, yes, we must be imaginative. And if things don't work out, then we'll have to look for things that work. And, if we have to break some ideological scheme, then, the trench. All of it. But when I feel, sometimes, the low councilwoman talking, she sees me as the hologram of Montoro, as I said, because I seem to be repeating the argumentary of the PP. No, no, don't freak out. [[The timer laughs.]] But... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah. Because, of course, four years ago we said: "The best social policy is to create occupation; the best social policy is to create work. [[Widow's remorse.]] And it turns out he sees the counselor and says exactly the same thing. Because economic reconstruction is the premise of social justice. And, look, there may be more social policy in a discrete, rigorous, serious measure of the government that increases GDP, than in a brilliant speech, against the troika and caste, because in a tenth of GDP there may be thousands of families who see the light after the tunnel. And before the immobilism of the old left and the new left and before the narcissistic paralysis of the Generality, we have acted – we have acted – and we have approved the labor reform, yes, the labor reform – certainly, with Convergence – the labor reform that has allowed the entry of thousands of people to the labor market, hundreds of thousands of people. We have done a tax reform for families and businesses that have given more power to acquire; we have done the structural reforms that Spain needed, and we are the country that created Europe the most, and now we are what we believe the most. And you will say to me: "Yes, I am precarious. So, do you know what the greatest job insecurity that ever existed in the history of democracy is? When the Zapatero sent three million people to the ground. That's to be precarious; that's to be precarious about people's living conditions! For this reason, we in this House present a set of measures, a battery of measures to promote contracting, to make life easier for self-employed people and small businesses. Because economic freedom is not the problem, it's part of the solution. And from this development of work, we are particularly concerned with two groups: the young and the majors of forty-five years. It's been talked about before the suicide rate, I don't know who it was, but really it's very relevant to this reflection, it's to say: these people, who, besides, have other people in their charge... It's that it's a huge suffering, isn't it? See how you can't carry – the father or the mother – food at home. And we spoke before going to the problem's plot – to the problem's plot. And one of the challenges of this crisis has been the debt of the public sector. And, therefore, we will not get out of this crisis with more debt, we will not get out with a much larger public sector: we will get out with a new model of social assistance, for example, based on subsidiarity and social and citizen initiative. And, therefore, we, as the entities of the third sector have asked us, propose a new model of concertation. We defend, ladies and gentlemen, a model of freedom and market, because it's the best, it's the best for us and we think it's the best for the whole world. I say, "Well, that kills. So, listen, when we look at how the poor have fallen globally, which has fallen to half in the last 20 years, so it has also been thanks to globalisation. But it's true and they're right when you tell us that it's also part of the crisis the predominance of finance over work and production, the absoluteism of finance. And, therefore, we are also happy to work with the Poor Zero platform and other entities in the exploration of betters to achieve what Zamagni defines as a market model to the person's measure. And here we also need to be flexible, and we need to be creative, and we need to explore new lives to establish an inclusive market economy ahead of a cold and humanly neutral economy, which also includes, for example, people with disabilities, who also have to be part of the economic and social fabric. In other words, a truly free market economy; it also frees those who take advantage of its privileges. Fixi's, and back to the beginning, to which De Gasperi wrote in the end of World War II: "If you raise your head, some. Justice calls for the elimination of an excessive concentration of wealth, the elimination of financial, industrial or agricultural feudalism that hinders small ownership. MPs and MPs, no one can stand back from recovery. And that's what the rest of our measures are about. And we offer a second opportunity plan for all people. Why, look, and I'll say it..., and you say: "But what do you say? So, yes; if the system finances Spanish – and Catalan, eh? , català also, here has not been Bankia – and català, and Spanish, and European, if the financing system has had a second opportunity, also all people have to have a second opportunity. And, therefore, we propose here a mechanism and a second opportunity project, endowed with 300_million euros, that we explain why, to help those people who go through it badly, therefore, to pass a situation of difficulty, to restructure the debt and thus be able to bring their family forward. It is to say, we, this House, this is under the premise that we have done things economically well; there has been an uncertain economic policy, which has allowed us to get out of the crisis, create jobs, and we must continue on this line. And let's hope now it's not twisting the course. And at the same time, social measures must be extended so that no one is left behind, because everyone benefits from this recovery in line with those who have been from the principle the primary values of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.32.0	Next comes the word Gabriela Serra, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.33.0	Thank you, President. President, advisors, advisors, will excuse me, but I am afraid that I will not have half the sympathy or thanks of the deputy who spoke, and I hope that the audience will also have a little less feeling, irony and, finally, that. We are talking about the poor and we are talking about the pact for the fight against the poor resulting from the plethora that will now... in March 2014, in its first resolution, it proposed to define an objective of reducing the poverty levels for the next four years and, as a minimum, to achieve the objectives set by the Lisbon agreements. Now, as different interventions have shown, the follow-up committee of these compliments made it very clear that we were not complete and that this compromise had not been achieved. According to the Idescat, as has already been said, the rate of risk of poverty, after transfers, was the 2014 highest than 2007, just before the esclat of the crisis, going from 18.2_per_cent to 20.9_per_cent. It is also true that the data from the current studies on the poor in Catalonia indicate that we are falling back in the battle against the poor and that the collective defeat that this supposes is an obvious mass reality, an obvious force, and that at times we are hitting each time more unequal and a greater difference between the rich and the poor in Catalonia, so that we are placed in one of the most unequal countries of this Europe that any defense so democratic, so strong and so powerful. This is why we share the reflections of the members of the Capsif, who, they, show a feeling of discontent, disappointment, and anger in relation to the results. These, they say, do not correspond with the expectations they have in the session. And it is true, because the Capsif also emphasizes that many of the measures proposed from the plenary already existed, while others are described with great ambiguity and without quantifying neither the costs nor the concrete financing to ensure its effectiveness. The report on Parliament's resolutions ended with a clear demand: that of strengthening and improving the government's economic and fiscal capacity to pursue fraud – and I would add corruption, EUR 16,000_million, is not a joke – and detailing non-necessary measures. That is as it is today, in a political context in which great national pacts are claimed, beyond the partisan struggle, one of the necessary ones, seems, and urgent and in what appears to be coincidental, continues to feel the relation to the eradication of the poor – I would say to the impoverishment, because we have never been as poor as we have been in the last 20 years. Because the poor continue, it grows and is here, and "it means twenty minutes from this plenary room, for example in Ciutat Meridiana, also called "Vila Desnonament, because it is the place, not only of Catalonia, but of the Spanish State, where more denunciations are carried out. What is the City of Meridiana? There are almost 20_percent of the deu_1,000 inhabitants of the barri– a third, new people– do not have studies or so many primaries; one_of_each_five floors runs the risk of being seized; in total, there are 3,770 floors, in Ciutat Meridiana. The bar has the lowest income in the city; not for nothing: they are workers, they are popular classes, they have no work, they have no income, and their income is six times lower than the average income of a bar that is neither very worker, nor very poor, nor very impoverished, nor very marginal, as is the bar of Pedralbes. The name of long-lived people, Ciutat Meridiana, up to 43,5_per_cent. All in all, this is the most precariousness of women, obvious class discrimination, lack of access to teaching, the marginalization of immigrants. It is the panorama of Ciutat Meridiana, and portrays very well a dramatic situation of poor and social exclusion. But the hardest part is that the Public Administration is missing in the barrio. And it's the association of seeing the only space where the victims of this difficult situation are encouraged, they are animated, they are accompanied, they are given tools, they use advice to deal more strongly with the disgrace they must suffer and to be able to maintain their worthy doses of dignity. Often it is good to feel and know the reality of first-hand to realize the distance between the politically correct speech, which positions it in a situation of moral comfort, and that which is twenty minutes from where that speech is pronounced. When we focus on Ciutat Meridiana, to give an example, we agree that urgent measures must be taken immediately to deal with a situation of real social emergence. And we also agree that there are two key variables, only two: income and housing. Without one another, it is impossible to guarantee a future worthy of the impoverished. With neo-liberal policies that have come to an end now, with a generality that has intervened financially and with an autonomous parliament, there is nothing to do. For this reason, I feel it, companies and companies that you are not working for, but for this reason, I want to move towards the Catalan Republic, to make it the guarantor of these rights and to have a Catalan administration that is finally decisively lightening with the poor and social exclusion. Until recently, the poor were perceived as an abstraction, real and conceptual, that only flourished outwards through very ruthless and implacable manifestations; for example, homeless people. Since 2008, an invisible injustice, because the political will wanted to make it invisible, has emerged because of the aggravation and social expansion that it has experienced until the extreme that today the symptoms of unemployment collection and growth of inequality are emerging all over the place; a race, however, very well perimetered, because it is not true that the crisis affects everyone equally; for example, the returns of 5_percent of the poorest people are precisely the ones that have fallen most, while the returns of the 5_percent higher have continued to grow. They have given us a wide range of exhibitions, other parliamentary groups, and even all the advisers and advisers who have intervened, ample evidence of the increase in inequality in Catalonia; they have given us figures, data, indicating how inequality has grown and grows in our home. I won't repeat them, because you all know them. But I will say that they all show that poverty and inequality are realities that are not on the margin, but are at the epicentre of society. That now the poor and the unequal have violently interceded on the political agenda for the dramatic character that have acquired both obvious injustices the hard political error, and unforgivable, attributable to the political class of this country, to have closed the problem. Now they pay off and we pay for the consequences for years. When society is analyzed, it is a big mistake if it thinks that the quality of everything is measured by the average quality of its parts, because the most unprotected and vulnerable part of a society is not to be deprived of or fed with nuggets, but it is a key structural element on which the country's future depends, neither more nor less. We have to understand that the negative effects of inequality are spreading throughout society. As the historian Tony Judt says, unequally corrupts society often from within. Depletion is nothing more than the bloody effect of social inequality, the lack of fair and equitable redistribution of wealth, benefits and social benefits. However, this position is not widely shared, but the usual interpretation that is still made about poverty on the part of many people has been based on two very extreme conjectures: either the circumstances in which they live are the cause of the poor, or those people rush to the lower levels of the social ladder because they have an almost innate tendency to suffer problems that they face in that position. It is to say, it seems, to some, that the poor are the cause of their own poor. From this perspective, the poor is not a social problem, but an individual. And that's why it's a concept..., it's conceived as a problem and not as an injustice, which, if it approaches from this individualist perspective, has no reassurance, because precisely the sole objective and exclusion is to deal with only the effects, nothing more, because in the background there is wandering the belief that the objective is to teach the poor to be more sensible; on the other hand, the new paradigm forces to examine the degree of material inequality in a society like the skeleton that supports cultural and class differences. In this sense, what happened to our country? As Councillor Comín reminded us a moment ago, the Gini coefficient shows that inequalities have spread; in the OECD, in Spain and Catalonia, it is where inequalities have increased in recent years. And this means that in 2014 20_percent of the population with the highest economic level earned the "cold amount of 6.5 times the 20_percent of the population with the lowest economic level. This variable, bleeding unequally that has a structural character in our country, has to be swept away with two other variables. First: a weak productive structure supported by construction and servicing. And second: a system of racial social protection that converts the family into the last bastion of personal salvation. The joint forms an explosive cocktail that pays the land for social exclusion, the poor and the expansion of inequalities. And how do you see that? Because capitalism, in the last seventy-five years or so, has made a three-fold leap of death: from thirty years of gold passed after the Washington consensus to the political criminals of austerity, austerity; three leaps with a mortal, criminal end of character: from the golden age of welfare, 1945-1973, to the neoliberal moment, which pulls at the end of the 1970s to end the decade of 2000 with imposed austerity policies; from a post-war stage characterized by capitalist countries for a social, political and economic pact around principles that, won at times of struggle and resistance, are recognized as social rights, and which have guaranteed a crease in productivity or balance. But from here he jumped to the anonymous "Washington Consensus", which involved the liberalisation of trade, the deregulation of financial institutions, the privatisation of state enterprises, fiscal discipline and labour deregulation, which has resulted in increased productivity in work and strong inequalities between the forces of capital, which has become richer, and those of work, which have been spoiled. The first ones were in control of the State, and the second was to secure the welfare; that is to say, he murdered the welfare state. And it's necessary to have the austerecratic management of the society. Because, yes, it sparked the crisis, and according to the forces of capital it was necessary to take it with force. But are we aware that our society is at an end to the crisis with a considerable level of social exhaustion? The year 2007 – Zapatero ruled; the president Zapatero, forgives – at the time when the financial crisis had not yet been declared, the joint venture of the Spanish State society coexisted with levels of impoverishment that already affected 20_percent of the population, with taxes of precariousness that tripled the European media. During the period from 1998 to 2003, prices increased by 21_percent, business benefits increased by 35_percent; in change, wages only grew by 18_percent. Moreover, the price of housing was tripled during the decade of the 1990s; 62_percent of pensions received were less than EUR 490_monthly. And more and more things. This was the reality of a complete society that managed to survive with its precariousness thanks to the fiction that represented debt capacity. And that is how, with the exclusion of the crisis, and above all from 2010, the austere version of the management of the companies in debt is required; a way of managing, remembering, is required, thanks to the PP-PSOE pact, with the reform of Article 135 of the Constitution, which prioritizes directing public expenditure to the payment of the debt in order to cover any social need. This spasm of Dàmocles will be concrete in the case of Catalonia with another pact, of Democratic Convergence of Catalonia and Popular Party, with Law 6/2012, of presuppositional stabilization. This law establishes in its Article 7 that the execution of presuppositional credits intended to satisfy the interests and capital of the public debt of the Generality has absolute priority over any other presuppositional expenditure. That is to say, any attempt to seriously address the productive and social reality that our society is suffering at these times will face, in a sense of doubt, with this hint of acid that represents the constitutionalization of undefined austerity. And it is not possible to face the social reality of the poor and exclude without breaking the loop of recession that today impose the policies of deutocracy. These endorsed and applied policies for all public institutions – from this European Union that some wish to the Government of the Generality – are based on a false possibility of recovery. In order to cope with a reality of deficit and debt, measures that are being taken as a result of a strong internal devaluation: low wages, a breakdown of public expenditure. And this involves a nullity or, in any case, scarce recovery in terms of growth, which makes the recession situation worse with the consequent decrease in public entrances and places them in the weaver of more deficit and more public debt. To highlight this reality in social terms we think that only in the interests of the debt we have paid 6_million euros daily during the last seven years; since 2010 we have paid 10,700_million euros in the interests of the debt, double the 5,300_million euros of retail sales in health, sanitation and attendance; 2014 we have paid 8,267_million euros in the interests of the debt, while the whole education requirement was 4,967_million euros. In parallel to this reality, we have lived for a few years where fiscal policies have undergone a clearly regressive evolution. If we look at the evolution of the Generality's recapitulation from the beginnings of the crisis, we see a clear 35_per_cent propvalage in tax receipts. Still, there are differences depending on the type of tax, since a good part of the accumulated fall has been donated in direct entries. Among other considerations, this shows the political and not economic reasons of this davalada. Direct taxes – estates and assets – have been reduced or cancelled by the Generality and the State, respectively, at various times. The changes introduced for the tripartite and later Convergence and Union and PP have significantly reduced the contribution of the inheritance and donation tax, while the cancellation of the property tax by the State and its subsequent temporary recovery, theoretically limited until 2015, are responsible for the oscillations in the total collection of direct taxes. In short, the addition of austerity policies to more than the first fiscal regression of this economic policy modality has given as a result of a marked increase in inequality in Catalonia. As always, in the run-up, women, new people, non-EU immigrants, opinions, the most disembarked and the most caring people. On the other hand, another phenomenon has appeared, new in Europe and old in the United States – it has been discussed, too. This new social stratification has a punching and tearing manifestation: the poor labor. Today, working on the labor market is no longer a guarantee of getting out of the poor or not falling there; today this equation is no longer true. I have noted, for example, the study of the Observer of Vulnerability of the Red Cree in Catalonia, which points out that among the persons attending the entity only 16.4_per_cent are occupied, and, among these, 51.5_per_cent has a monthly income of as much as six-cents_euros, under the interprofessional minimum wage, which is not much more, but is 645,30_euros. Evidence: If a busy person has to resort to the service provided by the Red Creu, it may not add much more. And one point: among other causes, this new phenomenon is explained by successive labor reforms that tend to support the neoliberal model of maximum protection of workers and of almost absolute powers of entrepreneurs. The last Labour Reform of the People's Party is a source of inequality and asymmetries, and one of these is that it includes the possibility of altering wages if the business benefits fall for three consecutive quarters; but, curiously, it does not include any measure that I operate the other way around. And the increase in attitude and inactivity, of course, because the capitalist system needs a reserve army, people outside the system willing to enter it at any price, so that they can control the rest of society. With high levels of maturity and precariousness it is every time more difficult to claim better working conditions. Workers and workers become a gentle and disciplined contingent under the yoke of why it results from the aggressiveness of the current labor market. Today, as a result of successive changes in the law governing the labour market, we have a pre-characterized labour market with temporary contracts for months, days and even hours. In short, as José Iglesias said, the precariousness of life is the factor that empowers the powers of capitalism to reduce human rights in favor of its class interests; the precariousness of life is the result of the barbarism of capitalism. And help her, understood as caregiving, does not fight the poor; like at most, and by luck and thanks, she softens the effects. We explained this before: we need to include poverty, poverty, poverty, in the context of neoliberal economic policies, which promote inequality, the visible consequence of which is widespread social poverty. To place us in this perspective does not cause the marathon against the poor nor to devote the rapture of the lottery of the Grossa to social ends as public policies adequate to combat the poor and social inequalities; they are inadequate policies, because charity only benefits who lends it and, on the contrary, perpetuates the poor because only the amansix. The majority of public policies and efforts to eradicate the poor have focused attention and focus on the fact that raw, cruel and visible suffering is addressed in the context of tackling its consequences, the ultimate causes of the poor. The problem emphasized in the framework of a society in which image and gesticulation are imposed is that the most important and certain, above all politically, is to focus attention on the visible effects of the poor, such as now desire, such as now malnutrition. How many times has it not been discussed in this House about the famous feeding grants, the poor energy or the deficiencies of salvation? Discussing these situations is not painful, it is necessary sometimes, but approve a moratorium on the size of the sub-administrations during the winter without condoning the accumulated debt, what does it feel like? Because the attack on the most visible effects of the poor does not eradicate it. I made it clear that eradicating poverty and inequality is a question of justice and fundamental rights. Nelson Mandela felt that overtaking the poor is not a charitable task, but an act of justice. Like slavery or apartheid, the poor is not natural, but is derived from the action of people, and, consequently, overcoming and eradicating it is only possible through political actions. Fairness equals equity, fair distribution of wealth, benefits, benefits and benefits among all members of a society. Justice operates in the long term, because it attacks the causes of social inequalities, and is articulated through institutional political action. The ultimate goal is to build a just society, integrated with non-dependent subjects only autonomous and able to face any challenge. It is absolutely intolerable and unacceptable that a country like ours, which stands among the world's richest gods, admits and tolerates a poverty index per 20_per_cent. Today, progress or development still hinges on a single assumption – economic growth per se – while social development has been relegated to the second term. In the current context, people are secondary, because they are conceived and operate as major economic growth tools benefiting a minority, which continues to grow economically. The priority, as Amartya Sen warns, Nobel Prize in Economics, should be to focus attention on the development of people, in order to focus it on economic growth. But the key again also passes to change the production system. Poverty and inequality do not disappear with more economic complements, but because they disappear we need to undertake an important structural change, change the production model and work conditions. And to achieve this, as at the very least, he goes on to work in a twofold direction: to eradicate the proliferation of low-skilled and low-paid jobs and to establish a minimum wage worthy of that name. It can't be that the only policy of fighting against unemployment goes by because people find a better job. Getting out of the poor is not a way that a person has to make with effort and sacrifice, alone, but a struggle that the Administration has to lead. Let me go two hundred years back, let me go to the French Revolution, even though it had its flaws, because it did not recognize the rights of women and slaves, but it had a very good proclamation: « Freedom, equality and brotherhood. It enhances those elements of social relationships that were to have more importance if it was to create a better society and optimize the quality of life of people. Freedom to free oneself from the yoke of inferiority and submissiveness. Fraternity, I want more reciprocity in social relations; there are no pairs, there are no hands, all of us German, fraternity, community, social cohesion and solidarity. And equality as required to ensure the satisfaction of the other two. A triad today that is ill and damaged and that we work hard to laminate even more, although we know that inequality does not only create problems associated with social differences, but also weakens community life, restores trust and, why not say so? , increases the violence. In the struggle against the poor and social exclusion to the Catalan Countries, since the UPC we have to defend the consolidation of social rights and curb the exculpatory discourses that transfer to people responsibility for their vital situations. Social tensions arising from neoliberal policies must be challenged with resistance to institutions, but above all – especially – with community initiatives and solidarity and mutual support in the streets, in the barrels, in the study centres and in the streets. Therefore, rule change, right and collective struggle, this is the exit. Poor Zero Platform, PAH companies, Social Rights Platform companies, this is the street, this is our space. We have to push there, we have to move there, because without the movement in the street this Parliament will not be able to pull forward. We want to go to the origin of the reasons of the poor, and that is why we are betting for an alternative to the capitalist system. We want to go to the origin of the poor's reasons, and that is why we are discussing the relevance of the European Union and the euro, a European Union that enslaves and a euro that impoverishes. We want to go to the origin of the poor's raons, and that's why we're feminists. What is often critical and ridiculous of our ideas is that, despite the weight of some, it allows the poor to be eradicated. Today this Ple runs the risk of saying that it wants to fight the poor and not act in consequence. We said, there was no control, the plans were not complete. That there is no doubt: the CUP - Creed Constitute work in a way that we can get to say some day that we don't fit any more ple over the poor, because we have already distributed the wreaths and we have been able to buy the pa sencer. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.34.0	Next is the words of Ms. Anna Figueras, from Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.35.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable President, Councillors, Members of Parliament, Members of the Government who today have come to accompany us in this plenary of social emergence and economic recovery, members of the different entities and organisations of the third social sector who have accompanied us here today, to all our cordial greetings, and in particular a strong thanks to all those agents who work intensively and daily, entities, organisations, professions, parliamentary groups – because yes, the intention is – institutions and administrations, to advance in the better of the living conditions of people who are most difficult, in a situation of vulnerability, who are today and we must make sure that the true protagonists of this plenary follow. Only if they become the real protagonists of this House will we have executed with rigor and certainty our pocket of deputies that the people of Catalonia commissioned us on 27 September. We celebrate the participation of the Poor Zero-Global Justice platform in this plenary, and we take it as the precursor of the prec that we were transmitted this morning from the joint work between parliamentary forces and civil society in the matter of fighting against the poor and inequalities, and we get the explicit support of our parliamentary group, from Junts per el Si, the literal text of the institutional declaration that came to us a few days ago and that is, let us say, the fruit of an accurate report that seeks the consent of all groups and that reflects, therefore, this dynamic joint work that brings back its manifesto. So, one more time, thank you for your pocket. Mirin, I would like to start my speech by conveying the firm will of the parliamentary group that I represent, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, to face this Plethora from the recognition of the social emergency situation in which our country finds itself. Let us not flee from this, a situation motivated by different causes, a situation so intensely little desired as intensely cruel that we do not want to flee, as I said. A situation that has been pouring into our country for years, with an index of poor people that, while in times of economic good, has already recorded a high mass, showing a structural poor, has not ceased to increase, and has increased the social needs of people who, before and before, have painted its consequences. So we do not want to take refuge and make certain diagnoses that expose the cruel reality of the poor that exists in our country and in other countries. And that's why we share the ability to bring this extraordinary plenary session to an end today, today, with a government just over a month ago, as they did earlier, with the firm conviction that it did a few months ago, when it was planted, then with a government in operation, could not have faced the same guarantees as it did today. Other functional governments exist, which, obviously and obviously, are not called upon to face full social emergence, so that it is also necessary in other districts, which confirms the suitability of the celebration today of a ple, let us say, of these characteristics. We are also faced with this extraordinary plenary session prepared to debate, to seek agreements to resolve, to deal with the social urgency that exists in Catalonia, from the full conviction that only from the rigour, honesty, reality exist, let us say, of current resources and presuppositively possible in the near future and from the reality of the current skills that the Government can exercise, that we urge with our proposals for resolution, to be able to find sincere, implementable and applicable solutions from the zero minute; solutions that do not believe false expectations, that only generate frustration. In short, from the Joint Parliamentary Group today we want to debate social emergence to provide measures that can redress situations of vulnerability, especially from honesty and without deceiving anyone. We are sure that the problems can only be solved from the point of view of reality, because with the cruel reality of the poor we are not willing to sell smoke or play it politically. From Junts per el Si, therefore, we agree on the diagnosis that leads us to celebrate this extraordinary Ple on social urgency. We share the crisis that began, therefore, in the year 2008; this crisis affects, and very much, the daily lives of the people of this country. We share that the increase of families in a vulnerable situation and the change of profiles of people who are found in the outburst of the poor, therefore, call for agreements that I put in order to improve the living conditions of all these people. We are, therefore, of this plenary a useful plethora for what they are today, as I said, or should not be the authentic protagonists, and we place ourselves all folded together to improve the situation of the poor from reality. Look, we replace them, better said, we replace ourselves to be worthy of the Catalans and the Catalans who are patenting the most. From now on, we defend an equitable society, we want a society in which the social situation – before it's said – is not an impediment to economic progress and social ascent. Inequality is a reality that needs to be truly transformed. First of all, we say that equity requires a progressive contributory system, it also requires a job that must be paid decently. It is not only a legitimate right of workers, that yes, it is also, but also a collective interest, as long as the people who are willing to work must be able to contribute to the support of public servants, and this is only possible if they are well remunerated. Toughness is another cause of our inequality. And it's not just about correcting the weather, it's about fighting it... sorry, about preventing it. Historically, most of our hard work has been the result of hyper-expansion of certain sectors that have sunk with, for example, the real estate crisis. Teaching, sanitation and dependence support must be of great quality and must be accessible to everyone. It was not possible without guaranteeing universal access to the service, let's say, which responds to phone rights. Social justice is irrevocable, and it is not contradictory to the pursuit of prosperity, because the world's most egalitarian countries are surely the most prominent. And that's why we're defending a society ahead of us, too, because only a society ahead of us is able to provide a decent standard of living for all its citizens. Only a society ahead is able to fight effectively against the poor, in all their manifestations and dimensions, to reduce its level and avoid its chronification. Only a company ahead is able to provide a teaching, a sanitation and a support to quality dependence, as well as guaranteeing the right to housing and avoiding the drama of denunciation. Only a company ahead is able to guarantee the future of decent pensions. And prosperity is also fostered with the existence of innovative and productive enterprises, large, medium and small: they are all important in time to create wealth. It is possible to disagree on the degree of regulation to which its activities and governance should be based, but we cannot doubt that collective prosperity depends on the vigour of all these enterprises as well. Prosperity, there is no doubt that it must also be donated because the production centres are well connected with their sub-ministrers and their markets, and this is so much so for what it does to large production centres as to small, small production units, but surely crucial to fixing the population in the territory and to providing them with the means of speech for a dignified life. Connections, for example, like the Mediterranean Corridor, from, let's say that..., of which Catalonia, these connections, therefore, have been missed by will and decision of others – let's say so. As a result, productivity and wealth creation are also necessary factors to ensure equal opportunities. There is no future or prosperity without a determined stake in the production, for example, of knowledge and innovation. And finally, the fulcrum of prosperity is a well-formed citizenry. Catalonia has been immersed these past years in an economic, social crisis, unprecedented in the recent history of our country. Like so many other countries in Europe and the world, Catalonia has suffered severely from the effects of the wider and deeper economic crisis of the past decades. This economic crisis has resulted in a social crisis that has emerged in the form of an increase in poverty, social exclusion and inequality. Different indicators show us, therefore, the harshness of this crisis in Catalonia: the destruction of occupation, above all, let's say, of other territories with similar business and economic structures; the greater increase of poor people's indexes; the fall in wages; the clamping on the power acquired by both active and inactive people... All this is explained by the lack of skills and resources to make it face, but also by the lack of a state that, gathering the needs and potential of the territories, has not been able to generate policies of impulses and recovery. The crisis has left a landscape of inequality and the growing need to recover basic rights for the citizenry. Catalonia has faced this crisis under extremely adverse conditions. In the first place, let me just say so, for the unsustainable level of the fiscal deficit that has suffered since more than thirty years ago and that is an offensive to economic and social progress. And, second of all, let's say, and another reason, for the state's defaults and defaults, before we say it, especially in questions related to social policies as well. With a reduction, let me just say, side of the resources coming from the State in matters to care for people: more than a 90_per_cent reduction in contributions from the State to care for the most needy people. Mirin, in concrete terms, for the basic performance of social services was reduced by 71.64_per_cent, or more than 60_per_cent for what he does to the National Drug Platform, or more than 95_per_cent in the management of non-contributory pensions and in the endowment, for example, of the special work centres. Go away, and not to mention, that the State, in matters of dependence, has declared the abandonment no longer only of its functions, but of the rights entrusted to it by law. And you know it. Specifically, if you have been through government action or inaction in matters of state government dependence, in the later years more than 65_per_cent, and before the president said so, Catalans and Catalans who for him had right to enjoy the law of dependency have not been there. It has been the Government of the Generality who, with a great deal of effort, has attended all these people, who, if you had been for the Spanish State, would have left them, let us say, abandoned to their fate. In order not to have enough, with this reduction, like the sidereal goddess, of some parties and programs, they have annihilated, have left to zero state resources in matters as sensitive as child abuse, the Action Plan for persons with disabilities, the level of dependency granted, that one day they would have decided, therefore, that they no longer agreed and that they would leave it to zero; for example, the Fund for the integration of immigrants or the departure for the care of the minor immigrants not accompanied. As we have shown, the tools of which we have been endowed and of which we have so far been left endowed have been insufficient to cope with these adverse situations. Catalonia, however, is a country with sufficient capacity to produce wealth because Catalans and Catalans can enjoy better living conditions. Catalonia needs to enjoy its own resources, the construction of summer structures that made it possible to improve the current situation of people living in poverty and social exclusion. And that's why, from Juntes per el Si, we understand the national and the social axis in an indestriable, indissociable, complementary and necessary way. Because we understand that only with all the resources that Catalans and Catalans produce, we can reverse and invest in the best of their living conditions. From Juntos per el Si, we pursue, therefore, the construction of a state close to us to live better. To satisfy the growing needs of those who need it most, of those who today are the protagonists of this plenary day. We do not resign to remain as we are, because the parties show that, as we are, the country does not advance sufficiently in the social investment it requires. We want and defend a state that is conducive to the establishment of state structures that are also easy for us to develop and implement predisposing social policies, help us to prevent situations of vulnerability and protect the quality of life of people. We want and defend a state that is conducive to the establishment of state structures that facilitate the implementation of redistributive policies that create authentic last resort protection networks that help people who I need to overcome limited situations, and that encourage them to reintegrate socially and occupationally applying, let's say, the benefits of the authentic social elevator. While this yearning, desired and possible national reality, let's say, now he was commenting on them, so, not above; it is to say, since this government was formed until it reached a new state, for a life more worthy of Catalans and Catalans, from Junts for Yes, we are aware that day to day management is required. In the meantime, we're going to diem the while. The most immediate reality of the most impoverished people that must be made easier, therefore, resources to overcome this social urgency that we would say, confronts, and has come out here, through inter-administrative cooperation, and overcome the crisis and deal with, let us say, the consequences it has caused. I must insist, however, that we do not start from scratch. The previous governments, all of them – all of them – have been working as they could not otherwise be in meeting the social needs that have emerged. This country, Catalonia, has been a pioneer in providing mechanisms, tools, legal marks, such as minimum income, years ago; laws of accessibility; the law of social services; the law of rights and opportunities of children and adolescents, among other measures to protect the social rights of people. And at the back, too, I want to make it clear that – despite what some people want to see, and not to repeat many falsehoods will certainly end – the Government has also been developing measures and resources to meet the basic needs of the most vulnerable. In this case, I should like to point out, and before the Councillor explained it, the other Members said: "And where do these numbers come from? Well, then, they take them, obviously, let's say, from the burden that made them the Ple of poverty two years ago. And, as I said, therefore, in this case it should be noted that 86 per cent of the actions contained in the agreements adopted in the general debate that increase of the poor and social inequalities substanceized the month of March two years ago have been completed or are being implemented continuously. You don't believe it and you don't need anything, but that's it. For example, with the approval of the Action Plan for Fighting the Poor, which contained 165 indicators, with a presumption of more than 1,000_million euros; a plan that had to be a plan because, obviously, therefore, the Government decided it, because there could not be a Fighting the Poor, because in this Parliament we did not agree. Some men are stunned that you have a pact, truly, of struggle against the poor. And the government, of course, has implemented a plan, such as the deia, with 165 actions and more than 1,000_million euros; or the coverage of 100_percent of scholarships for students – for the first time in this country – at high social risk; a new food distribution service; encouraging, for example, social clauses in public contracts; committed to ensuring work places in special work centres; approval of the Plan for the right to housing; support for more than seventy-one families to avoid residential exclusion; approval of the tax on empty habitats in the hands of funded entities; approval of the Law for urgent measures to address the urgency of housing exclusion; approval of the tax on empty habitats in the hands of funded entities; approval of the Law for the right to housing; approval of urgent measures to address the issue of housing exclusion; approval of the tax on empty habitats in the hands of funded entities; and approval of the Law for more than seventy-one families to avoid housing exclusion; approval of the tax on empty habitats in the hands of funded entities; approval of the Law of urgent measures to address the environment, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for the government, for the government to be, for the government, for the government to be to be to be to be to be to be to be to be to be to be to be to be to be to be to be to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be As I said, from Juntes per el Si we know that we need to continue to work to manage this difficult situation while, this situation of social emergence that, as it is said, is attached to everyone, let us say, the different institutions that have competitions in our country. Institutional cooperation has been the key to addressing this while, and, from this window, we want to recognize and appreciate the huge task of gathering together and in super-municipals to meet the day-to-day crisis. Thus, cooperation between administrations and associations, civil society, has also been a daily response to all this increase in the situation required by social assistance, which, I insist, is offered daily to those who need to satisfy their basic needs. Notwithstanding this, we are aware that we must continue to work in this direction, and it is for this reason that from the beginning of this legislature, despite the fact that some, let us say, attribute an inaction to us, therefore, we, from the beginning of this legislature, from the Juntes per el Si, were to be working in a shoal. A social plan to address the social needs of Catalans from honesty, reality and opportunity. A plan of coc that contemplates both specific actions in the form of public policies with decisions of economic character, assumptions, fiscal and finance that guarantee us the necessary economic endowment to last them to term. A plan of action containing measures affecting the child's poor, the energy poor, the housing emergency and the policy of prevention of denunciations for economic and social reasons; it contained measures on the minimum income to guarantee it..., before they explained it to us, the subject right, and the cent_percent of the coverage, and the maintenance of the program, let us say, of the minimum income for those people who, after the sixty_months of stay, still maintain the circumstances for whom, therefore, they generated this right. A shoc plan that provides for measures to guarantee benefits to people who are in a situation of dependency and bet for the growth of residential places, home care services and the reactivation of related economic benefits. And, referring to dependence – we can't help it – we also want to focus on the need for a law of personal autonomy that overcomes the shortcomings of the state law of dependence that has been violated, at last, for those who designed it. A law that invades competitions, poorly dimensioned, poorly funded, which incorporated into this law the possibility of applying the co-sponsorship; surely, you realize that the underdottation on which he left, let's say, engaged people to collaborate in what is now so much – so much – lament. That is why we hope that in this new law the country needs, so everyone will work together, let's just say, to address the errors of the existing law. But let's go back to the shoc plan, a shoc plan which also provides for priority investment in high-complexity schools and in less-favorable socio-economic areas, facilitating access, on fair terms, to transport services, compulsory teaching, or promoting the policy of preventing school places. And that in the matter of housing they intend to increase, therefore, the public housing park with taxes homologable to the middle of the European Union, especially that of social lloger. A shoc plan that drives through inter-administrative cooperation, a community action plan in the barrel with more socio-economic difficulties. And a plan of action that bets on measures, let's say, from data to payment, that bets on the promotion of the social and cooperative economy, on a public bank, that works towards a new Catalan minimum wage, according to what the European Social Charter defines and that, in the matter of energy, bets, for example, to prioritise the self-consumption of renewable energies. In matters of health, work for the reduction of lists of hope – before they explained it–; ensure access to medical and pharmacological treatment free of charge to the affected persons of hepatitis C; guarantee, among other things, access to pharmacological treatment in a universal way; provide for a rescue plan for people affected by central sensitivity syndrome; work to reduce territorial inequalities in matters of health; ensure integrated, social and health care care care; and strengthen the comprehensive mental health plan – already said, among many other measures. So, a shoc plan that bets to meet the needs of people in a cross way or in the way, let's say, cross that requires the guarantee of life worthy of people. With this plan of action we face this Ple..., and that we want to transform into proposals for resolution so as to urge the Government of the Generality to focus on improving the quality of life of people in situations of greater social need. From the Juntes per el Si, we commit ourselves, therefore, to presenting proposals for a resolution which contain, let us say, the plan of action which is based on concrete proposals, which I propose to work from reality; with those resources which we know we have or will be able to dispose of in the near future, when the possible assumptions of the Generality are coming; they do not give false hopes, that is, without deceiving anyone, because we are convinced that there is no worse social policy than the one offered knowing that it will not be possible to implement. It is not politically ethical to promise what is impossible to implement. And, together for the Yes, we commit ourselves to exercising our parliamentary task from the ethical rigour that demands such a sensitive subject as we are currently dealing with. This, as I said, must be a plethora where those parliamentary initiatives that we know, all folds, can be implemented. We don't like advertising campaigns promising €4,000_million to tackle the social emergence that, as they say, will bring them out of something where, at present, the Government of the Generality has no competition. Let's keep serious, help us to keep the state's tools that require the fight against tax fraud and then we can talk about providing certain measures with enough money. While it is not nationally defined and not adopted, directly and decisively, to equip us with a proper state, we cannot ask for state policies to fight against tax fraud. These are practical, which I would say, which in politics cannot be brought to an end if we really want to work to tackle the social emergencies of our country. From Junts per el Si, we will not participate in competitions about the poor, neither in open, nor in indoors, nor in boxing fights, let us say, at the cost of the poor or in catastrophic coves, no. We will work, honestly and honestly, proposing measures that we know can be implemented, because, as I say, it is not politically ethical to promise what is impossible to implement. Where they will always find us until they achieve it is in the construction of a state that allows you not only to fight against social emergencies, but a state in which the proper state structures allow you to live Catalans with full dignity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.36.0	Next, to answer the parliamentary groups, has the word "Mrs. Neus Munté", adviser to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.37.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. In order to try to respond jointly with the Vice-President, who will do so after, then again, the different interventions of the parliamentary groups, now yes, all those that make up this chamber. Some have spoken of a supposed triumphalism in the initial intervention this morning of the government. And I have to tell you that in any case... triumphalism, no one. Neither triumphalism nor fatalism. You have been able to listen to all of our interventions, and all of us have made a recognition of some indicators that are real and that are more than worrying, indicators of growing inequality and deeper crisis. It's still more worrying to talk about depth than expansion. But this is what we have done, we have not denied it, as we have also referred to the different population groups and groups most affected by this social crisis, from infants and young people to large people or women. And we have made self-criticism, yes, we have, of those instruments that are not yet fully tuned and have the repte and responsibility, and we have assumed, to work to improve them. Actually, we're not satisfied. Not so much of the fact that there are lower levels of the poor, the poor. That's according to all the indicators. The poor risk index, or the Arope tax, or the Gini index, show us that with fewer resources we have slightly better indicators than there can be in the Spanish State. But we're not satisfied either. We haven't made any reference. I'm doing it now because some of you did, this reference. But, in any case, no triumphalism, no self-criticism, no fatalism, and also recognition that we were not satisfied with it, nor did we, nor the Government, nor the parliamentary groups that supported the Government, of the monogramme plenary on the rise of the poor and the inequalities of two years ago. I don't think we liked each other or liked each other. But in any case, I do want to make it clear once more that we find it unnecessary to take into account – not on the part of all groups, it would also be unfair to generalize, but on the part of some – the difficulties of context, from a perspective of finance and instruments, that the Government of the Generality has. It doesn't matter, and many haven't mentioned it at the moment. Neither to the extraordinary fiscal deficit, nor to the one-sided remedy fixed by the State, nor to the failure of so many laws or payments of contractual obligations by the Spanish State, nor to all those challenges and suspensions of instruments of this Government and of this Parliament that we have also suffered. And with the same intensity that we defend the full sovereignist route, we defend the rights and freedoms of Catalans and Catalans from a social rights perspective. And President Puigdemont explicitly said that being close is no miracle. And we don't expect miracles, but it's a tool, it's an instrument, to sustain and to strengthen this welfare state, which we think we can provide much better than we have done so far, because there are resources that are properly generated in Catalonia, but then we can't precisely dispose of it to build up and strengthen these social policies. And we speak in terms of realism, that sometimes it may seem to have a different meaning or meaning depending on who uses it, that term. When we speak of realism from the government, and I also refer to the later intervention, that of Junts for the Yes, I mean that we will not deceive anyone, as we did when we discussed, when we drew up, the social security plan. We will not do it in this debate or in any other debate. They can be safe and sound. In any case, I want to make explicit reference to the alleged incompliments, to which some of the parliamentary groups have referred, on the resolutions adopted in the last plenary of the poor, to which I have now referred. Precisely, from the state of compliments of these resolutions we have taken into account in this very Parliament in parliamentary committee, and we have not been explaining and we have not been sharing, not only with parliamentary groups, but also with social entities, explanations, indicators and the degree of compliment, which, as we said yesterday, and today we have also made reference to, concretely in a 86_percent of actions that have been developed or that are ongoing. So... they also recognize and accept that there are some that could not be completed, or even that could not be started. However, in any case, I do not want to tire them out, nor can I be exhaustive, if I may be explained, of actions that have been effectively completed and that constitute parts of the blocks, the axes, of the resolution adopted that March 2014: the incorporation of social clauses into the public contract – I believe that it was said before, in fact, that 13500 adults have been re-established on the basis of the fine-tuning and training of persons with a low level of legal assistance; or the introduction of alternative criminal measures and reinsertion programmes; the fact that 13500 adults have been re-established on the fine-tuning of the fine-tuning, and the formation of persons with a low level of legal assistance; the prevention of fine-tuning, the prevention of fine-tuning, the prevention of fine-tuning, the prevention of fine-tuning, the prevention of fine-tuning, the prevention of fine-tuning, the prevention of fine-tuning, the prevention of fine-tuning, the prevention of fine-tuning, the prevention of fine-tuning, the prevention, and the prevention of waste-tuning, the prevention of waste-tupping, the prevention of waste-tuning, the prevention, the prevention of waste-tuning, the prevention, the prevention of waste, and the prevention of waste, the prevention of waste, the prevention of waste. And it's not exactly the measures we'd like to take, which we'd like to develop, I insist, much more forcefully or much more forcefully. But they have developed indicators to follow up on these resolutions, and this is not the first time we have been able to explain, I insist, openly and transparently the evolution. And I am convinced that, in the same way, this debate..., and this Parliament, on this occasion, will also decide on the follow-up mechanisms so as to value the compliment of the actions that have come to an end. Allow me to refer, in this case yes... concretely, to some of the comments that have been made and that have been put on the table in this debate. Specifically, I will refer to the overlaps, the duplications, which the Ciutadan Group specifically explained. They were talking about political syringuites and double-competences that need to be eliminated in order to be able to gain in efficiency. I have not been able to find in the document they have worked since the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol and Citizens no reference to the elimination of real duplicates, as is the case of the Ministry of Culture. Eliminate the Ministry of Culture. All the skills are transferred to the autonomous communities, and I'm sure they can clearly eliminate... This is a expense and not a reversal. That's what they can do. They take care of all those organizations of the General Administration of the State that do have greas and changes do not have a muscle, and they do there the bikini operation, because I assume that when you spoke of "the bikini operation and the duplication of competitions it did not refer to the district councils. I suppose it did not refer to the local councils, that you have to know very well that they have skills in basic social services in all those municipalities smaller than twenty thousand inhabitants, and this means things as sensitive as home care, such as social emergency aid, such as food distribution, social workers or open centres for infants or adolescents, just to give some examples. Anyway, it's funny that you're making this reference. Or, for example, that they do not make the political and administrative structure of the State disappear in the matter of housing, because also here the skills, all, are transferred to the autonomous communities. Therefore, what would be near would be to transfer these resources in full – in full – and let us do it. Because something else would mean that you want to limit this capacity, that is already limited, of the same government, but that allows you to help so many families, as I mentioned earlier, or manage fourteen thousand social logger habitats, or support the entities of the third social sector. They speak of the fact that you have many measures, but they have not explained to us who they are. We may know them in the course of the debate tomorrow. But in any event, a great effort has been made by the Government of the Generality in the past few years, and the intention is to continue to boost in this legislature all that it refers to the market to lodge, to the acquisition of habitat by chance and retraction, the application of the divestments of empty habitats and those agreed with the entities financed from the voluntary cessation of habitat. As I said, more than that, it has been possible to increase these aid considerably, from EUR 50 million to the current 85. And, also, I can't help but refer to the gatherings and the social entities, because these two concepts have also been widely used this late. With regard to Mr. Fernando Sánchez, the deputy of the People's Party, you can refer to him and you can fill the task of gatherings– yes, the Veg, the Veg– and of social entities as much as you like, you would just miss. But in any case I would remind you that if both you read the social entity's task, as it is that you have not done far from all these years because you complete the feelings of 0.7_per_cent that should be allocated entirely to social ends, 0.7_per_cent of the IRPF? This is a historical demand from the social entities, this and previous governments of Catalonia. But what's more important: you have a lot of feelings that ask them, that they order them, that they do, and you systematically disobey them. Certainly, a proposal, or a proposal, that is not in place of the document that you have agreed to from the Socialist and Ciutadans Paris. There is no reference to this change, to this change in criteria, which would actually be to complete the lawfulness and to complete the sentences for which it makes 0.7_percent of the IRPF intended for social purposes. But also when we talk about the gatherings, which we know perfectly well the task they make, so much so..., was referred to the Constellera Bassa..., contracts the program already planned for this year 2016, and referred to its 200_millions quantity, as also mentioned the calls for support to social entities working with families with infants in a situation of vulnerability. As much as we work, we have worked and will continue to do so with the main agents with whom we can coordinate and cooperate in the field of social services: joint ventures and entities in the third social sector. But I told you, Mr. Sánchez, that I remembered the LRSAL, because you are the parents and the seas of the LRSAL, and this is a harmful law for our assemblies, for our local world... but above all lethal in what it might have been, and fortunately it won't be, but it was in his intention and in his beginning of affection, as I say, for what he does to our assemblies. But that's it. You were talking about entities. Deixi'm que li rememberi..., is a press release that says: « The Minister of Finance, Cristóbal Montoro, said this Friday – it was March 28, 2014 – « that the reports that Caritas produces on poverty in Spain do not correspond to reality, because they are only based on statistical measurements, and has asked this organization not to provoke debates in this regard. So let's face it: here you praise the social entities, but in Madrid your ministers deny them and deny them the debate on such important issues. We would never come, we've never done it, and we'll never do it... when a social entity, that's what it is... in the last few days we've known a lot of these reports, we analyze them, but what we give for good is what they tell us, especially the recommendations and proposals. And I think a lot of people are on the line that I was pointing at a while ago. I'm moving on to the questions I want to mention. You have spoken, and you have made different groups, the Socialist Group has done it, you have made it also from the People's Group, you have spoken a lot about the Law of Dependency. I would just like to remind myself that this was a proposal, a star proposal of the government of President Zapatero; "a new pot of the welfare state, that is how it was made clear that it was law, a law that had to be underfunded since the first moment, already, on behalf of the socialist government, but that it was absolutely unpacked from the government of the People's Party. Only to speak, or only to read the reports of the State Coordinator of Platforms in defense of the Law of Dependency, who denounces that, after four years of the Government of the People's Party, there has been a decrease of 3,000_million euros of the presumption destined for the Law of Dependency and 818,213 dependents without answering when recounting the pending requests for assessment. And I left 'but the records, also, again, to the Socialist Party and to Ciutadans, that in his document, in his agreement at the level of the State, you propose a diagnosis about the application of the law, and this is a song that can sound very good, but believe 'that we already have enough analysis, and evidence that this is a law that doesn't work because it hasn't been equipped and because it's been retailing a year ago, we don't need any diagnosis. It's not the moment of principle, it's not the moment of assessment when it happened, I insist, such a drastic reflection for what it does to the rights of dependent people, their families and a whole social and commercial sector that is behind it. And we could, in turn, highlight and remember that the Government of the Generality, before and now, is assuming 82.6_percent of the law's financing, because of these incompliments on the part of the State and these ongoing retailings. Therefore, it is very easy: the Generality is providing five times, five times more than the contribution of the Government of the State, and, as I said, we are maintaining this support with an important presuppositional effort, which is obviously partial, but it is important, both with local authorities, through the program contract to co-finance all these basic social services and also Catalan social entities. I would also like to refer, in a way, too, so, as much detail as I can, with the time at my disposal... He talked about the poor energy, he talked about the help and the fact that he didn't run out of money initially predicted. Know that a new call is being prepared so that the process is easier, it is better for the beneficiaries. We also want to reach out to more people, from the formation of professionals and campaigns that make them reach out to more and more families and, I don't mean, at the conjunction of workers and social workers, the lines of help available to this government. We know that the documentation requirements are strict, they were strict, because they were under the general subsidy procedure. But we are working, I insist, to make it more clean and more agile and because all the beneficiaries who require it and who fulfill the requirements, who have also agreed, with the social workers, so they can accommodate themselves there. But I also want to remind you that the fund is suspicious, that it has been requested to rise to the Constitutional Court, but that this fund is still suspicious, in a new exhibition of political shortsightedness and social insensitivity on the part of the Government of the State. The priorities are shown in the assumptions. This is a great reality. In the last few days I've read somewhere, or I've seen a comment that seemed interesting to me to respect the fact that a shock plan is positive, but maybe it's just turned into a powerpoint. The most concrete and powerful plan of action is that of some assumptions. So, it is worth remembering that, as well as the migration of economic resources and all the systemic attacks that we have suffered from the Government of the State, it has been possible to prioritize, effectively, in the last few years in more than 70_per_cent the social reversal of this Government. And the destination of this more than 70_per_cent has been very concrete, it has been very clear and it has referred to questions that have emerged today from one and the other time in the debate on behalf of all of you. And it must be that we agree that these are the real priorities and that they are those policies that are aimed at the most vulnerable people, and that is why we have been able to allocate a good allocation of resources to the minimum income of insertion, they are aware that we have work to do, of course, but so much so that in the period 2012-2015_he has grown in a 42.3 the assumption, until 185_millions, the highest amount of the benefit, and this has meant reaching a 33.4_percent more of the beneficiaries. I referred earlier to the guarantee of the right to housing, another of the policies that has been strengthened in recent years and with the will to continue to do so. The feeding grants, as I said before, also with more assumptions, with more beneficiaries and with much more objective and more homogeneous criteria. In short, we have listened here to political formations that govern, that have ruled or that aspire to do so at the level of the Spanish State, and that have created laws that have applied them – or in some cases unapplied – and that are partly responsible for the Generality's ability to manoeuvre to do what it is, in many cases much less and much more limited than we all would like. That they talk a lot about the needs of our assemblies, of our social entities, but as if they don't have anything to do with those policies that have also undermined their ability to manoeuvre, and they ask us to prioritize, like the government, policies that are precisely the most affected by their detail: the special centers of work, the scope of dependence, social housing or the scope of education and children's homes, for example and without going anywhere else. Some of his decisions have gone over to retaliate parties and also to bring it all to court. And allow me, here, to refer back to the realm of housing, because even many of the laws and initiatives designed to fight the poor and fight against social exclusion have gone to court. I would like to recall the appeal before the Council of State Guarantees against Decree No. 1/2015, which provides for the right of appeal and withdrawal by the public administration, but also the threat of appeals before the Constitutional Court against the Law on the creation of the tax on empty housing, urgent measures in the matter of housing, and others such as the suspension of the consumption code, to name but a few examples and not to mention only, but also, the decree on poor energy. Therefore, he contributed to public policies by the People's Party government: courts, courts and more courts. We, as the government, and as we say this morning, have come to this House with the will to listen to everyone, to listen to social entities – we are here and we are out of Parliament, I would just miss – to listen to all parliamentary groups and to reach agreements and consensus that allow us, in a realistic, but also ambitious way, to push forward social policies that we know come to the heart of this need and the needs of the city and city assembly. It is early to know what the content of the resolution proposals will be. Of course, in some respects we may agree, but we will certainly be far removed from those who do not contain a shred of realism or who are very little credible on the part of whom they come. And, I insist here, to reiterate the need to please us, if it can be, this time, to please those who listen to us, those who have, therefore, placed hopes in the resolution of this monographic plenary on the poor, to please them as well and to be able to pull forward initiatives to strengthen political measures that are already due to the end and others that are of course necessary in the current context that our country sees. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.38.0	Next, the words of Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.39.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone. I will try to complement and not overlap with the intervention of the Councilwoman Munté. In the first place, I would like to thank them, some in particular, the polite, polite and purposeful interventions of everyone; I do so on behalf of myself and on behalf of the government. The coincidences, surprisingly or not, are many of the things that have been said by the various groups. I start with some coincidences with the Ciutadans group, when they say that the most equal societies are also the most likely. Absolutely okay. In addition, I liked the smell of the expression, because it is often said that the most prosperous are the most egalitarian. I understand that in the order of the expression there was a message, which we absolutely share, and it is that not only the more ahead are the more egalitarian but the more egalitarian tend to be the more ahead. Also agreed that equal opportunities in the present time is a guarantee of future development. Absolutely agree, and I understand that our intervention, the intervention of the Government, of the various councillors and advisers of the Government this morning, was precisely in this sense and, therefore, I understand it as a positive coincidence. The expression of wanting to make a responsible and understanding opposition, as you can imagine, and you in particular, so..., the government's willingness to make a responsible and understanding government task, too, huh? So we also agree here. I also appreciate the recognition that governments, and in particular the Government of the Government of Catalonia in the context that we described this morning, so they have fewer resources than ever – you have said, absolutely agree – and more needed to cover than ever. And therefore, certainly, they are complicated moments in the management of public resources always scarce before ever righteous needs. In these moments, therefore, especially true. I do not share it, in change, when you said that there was no evidence of self-criticism; I, I seem to have been very strong in some expressions, in any case I am sure that we in the plenary and in the management of all the presuppositional negotiation will have occasion to influence these issues. Nor does it coincide when you bring us back to the scarce resources in the social sphere. Also, passing his party's investment agreement with the PSOE, we find that there is a social spending commitment of €7,000_million. If the calculations do not deceive us, 7,000_million euros divided by seven, which is the demographic volume that corresponds to the Catalan society respects the total of the Spanish State, it is about 1,000_million euros. If it is applied in a democratic sense, which the Spanish governments have never done by chance, but let us put ourselves in a position and suppose that this will be allocated according to the volume of the population: 1,000_million euros. The reminder that the Government of Catalonia has allocated only 850_million euros to the Law of Dependence, which no Spanish governments have ever completed. Therefore, if all the solution is 1000_million euros destined for the Catalan society, and we alone in the law of dependence place 850 so that the Spanish governments, of one and the other color, fail to complete it systemically, understand that it does not cause us much enthusiasm. And respect the suppression of administration levels, totally agreeable. In fact, here we'll settle very quickly. They already know that we are supporters of two only levels of administration: that of the republic and that of the municipalities, organized as they think more opportune, in the form of metropolitan areas, of regional councils or in the way they think more appropriate at the time of organizing their services. Therefore, here, welcome – welcome – to this option. With regard to the Socialist Party, I often say that I feel very close from an ideological and intellectual point of view, and that I feel very close, too, for many of its representatives and its mayors, etc., on the other hand, today I have felt very – and very, and very – long. And while I was listening, I was asked by innocent, ingenious people, such as: who changed Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution? And when we are talking about political priorities in the presuppositional application, which condemned subsidies to third-sector entities in the last of the squids of all the assumptions made and in order to be there, but you? And I have another question, also, in this sense, naive and innocent: what is the Spanish government that has lowered taxes the most to make them higher if not President Zapatero's? And who, better yet, made substantial amounts of public resources available in the E plan to run roads that were in perfect condition instead of spending them on questions that were really central to the development of the economy and social policies? And I have another question: who denied the crisis enmig of the crisis most known for the capitalism of the Great Depression? Who denied that there was a crisis every day from the government? Who was talking about green shoots one week before the other enmity of the biggest crisis and the fastest increase in the weather of the whole history of the Spanish State? And I get a lot more attention, huh? : who fails to complete the third additional provision? Who instils the Law of Dependency? Who was inconclusive...? , etcetera. So, listen, I felt very long, that's why, my feeling... ; maybe, too, that's the feeling of other Members of this chamber. In any case, these girls ask, too, all the will to get to the maximum possible extent also about this fonation that seems indispensable to me to pass on the facts, right? Regarding the intervention of the representatives of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, in change, in this case, I felt myself. My perceptions may be very subjective and not shared by everyone. But, in any case, I felt clean, of many of the things that have been said. When they talk about the breakdown of the social pact that has characterized the welfare states in Europe, we share it – I think we have explained it many times. It is obvious that the welfare states were founded on a pact, often written and not written, but of extraordinary strength, and that it is a clearly broken pact, not only in this crisis, but only in the end of the seventies or seventies – then I will link it with the intervention of the People's Party – and, clearly, in the eighties, let's say it. Also when it is said that there are fewer social resources per capita in Catalonia than in many other territorial areas. Absolutely okay. And at the same time I understand that you also agree with the assertion that the percentages of assumptions for social parties are the highest in all history. So how is the two things now compatible? Is it to say, how is it possible that we have the assumptions with the percentage destined for higher social policies and, at the same time, a per capita expense lower than many other territories? The explanation is..., I think it's very simple, and not by simple least certain, and it's what explained this morning, too, President Puigdemont when he remembered that we're the second society, the second community, that he makes the most contribution to fiscal effort and, in turn, in per capita terms, we're the 11th in terms of resources, and if that compares, in addition, to the level of life, the 14th. And it's a fact and an evidence. Therefore, despite the fact that someone does not like to feel it, but even though they do not like to feel it, they will continue to feel a fact and continue to feel an evidence. Now, it is also agreed that, indeed, the wealth is very poorly distributed. Also this morning we made reference to it..., and I seem to make reference to it, not only I, many members of the government, but I personally, with remarkable strength; therefore, of course. In change, however, according to the analysis, but not so much with the conclusion respecting the effort made for the assemblies; in total agreement: the assemblies have made a very remarkable effort, they have reoriented a good part of their assumptions, they have set themselves in front of the defense of this state of well-being in crisis, of this attempt to save this pact from the state of well-being that has fallen from a few decades ago and, singularly, in the last few years, however, if the conclusion is that the Generality has to do it in the same proportion, the problem is that it is impossible to do in the same proportion because the assumption of the Generality of Catalonia, in 88_per_cent, is finalist. And, therefore, the margin of manoeuvre is much narrower, sadly, than that of the gatherings, because we would like as much as to do here as we have done in front of our gatherings, and we are exactly the same people. Therefore, we would like very much, we would like very much to do it, and you all know that we are working to do it, but in the current context that we are describing this morning, so, unfortunately, the margin of manoeuvre is very small. Now, according to the effort that is made by the municipal world, absolutely agree; in this, totally agree. And we also agree with the satisfaction that the plenary, therefore, began with the voice and participation of representatives of civil society; whatever is the participation of citizens and organised civil society, we celebrate a lot. A numeric specification: 270_million euros is not the equivalent of 0.5_percent of the Government of Catalonia's assumption, because it would mean that we have a presumption of 54,000_millions. If we had a presumption of 54,000_millions, I assure you that this Ple would not be hot by chance. [[Some applause.]] Regarding the PP, the representative of the PP – I have to say. Regarding the representative of the PP, also a certain – a certain – proximity; respect the PP, no, but respect the representative of the PP, yes. I would like to be at the height of the representative of the PP, who has had an intervention characterized by a certain or very fine, ironic, sense of humor, which I think is very valuable and which is never to be overcome, and which in this room is not to be overcome either. And, therefore, listen, my recognition for all and many of the things he said. And I say it with all the sincerity of the world and there are no irony people I'm going to say. It may sound controversial, but there is no irony. When you claimed the principles of old Christian democracy, you made me think of the intervention, just before, of the representatives of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, when they spoke of this pact of the welfare state. In fact, the pact of creation of the welfare state, in large part, in Europe, was produced by a pact more or less explicit, or more or less implicit, but, in any case, very obvious, and with very real consequences, between the world of full social democracy and the world of full Christian democracy. So much good – so much good, so much good – the parties of the international linked to the People's Party keep the hope that they held the old parties – unfortunately old, let's say, eh? – Christian democracy and the international Christian democracy. And without controversy, but I felt there..., I felt compelled to say it: precisely who expelled the traditional Christian democratic parties from the Christian international was their party when they joined it. Yes, at the International Congress of Christian Democracy that you have incorporated..., because you were linked to another European family, which was the conservative, and you have integrated into that popular family, to hear us, take up the name of the People's Party, Luigi Sturzo – you have spoken of De Gasperi, therefore, just before –; you have expelled them. So, so much good, so much good, we recovered that spirit, because then it would all be so much easier and we would understand each other, so much better. I also agree with you that, if I understand correctly, he likes the concept of 'work' better than that of 'occupation'; I also feel well-recognized. With regard to the assertion that you made that the best social policy is the creation of work and that I am worthy and that I am well-paid and well-paid, that you used the Constellera Bassa, and that you said: "I feel it to me, know that I feel it to me before you feel it to me. So, here we are at a very high level of coincidence. I have served it many times, singularly – singularly – in the year 2009, at the Europeans' campaign of 2009. You were talking about the need to focus the economy on people. It sounded good to me; it sounded good to me and it sounded like things I heard from other representatives of other groups who spoke today, both those who preceded it in the use of the word and those who used the word just after you. But, at the same time, it is also true that, in many of the decisions he has made, the government of the party you represent has been quite contrary: the law of dependence, resources for special work centres, etc. Therefore, I appreciate it, and I want to say it, because it seems to me that it is right to say it, its statements, its statements, its intentions, but they are not always coincident with the decisions taken by its party when it has government responsibilities. Leave him alone. And when you were quoting De Gasperi I'm almost excited, because with this statement that "that eliminate feudalism finance, industrial and agricultural it seemed to me that you were already putting in your mouth your words that the representatives of the CUP might later say. And I have seen it as an unequivocal sign that there will be many agreements tomorrow and that there will be votes that coincide with many groups with groups that support the government. I hope so. Regarding the intervention of the representatives of the CUP, also very, very close. You saw that this proximity – I don't know how to qualify it, let's just say, in any case of personal character – is a lot of broad ideological fanfare, let's just say it. So, a lot of agreement, in fact, with almost all the diagnostics, and maybe some differences respect the receipts. But the diagnostic... it happens to me often, huh? , I was also in the last legislature, that when I heard the representatives of the CUP talking I had the feeling that we shared the diagnosis, and then we didn't always agree on the receipts that I would apply at the time of solving this diagnosis. I give some examples. The need to fight tax fraud and corruption, totally agree. This morning I tried to express myself with a certain strength and with a small volume a little high, perhaps to compensate that I could not devote all the time I wanted, but I made an explicit reference to it. I have talked about the need to develop the tax agency in order to deal with tax fraud in those areas where we have skills at this time, and above all prepare ourselves for when we take responsibility for the mass tax. And I mentioned that it's not just moral evil, it's economic evil, etc. So, in this sense, totally agree, and it seems to me that we have to make a huge effort in this sense. Also, respect the analysis respects the productive structure, a weak productive structure based on construction. Here the analysis is also absolutely shared. In fact, the Catalan economy – and this is a self-criticism..., in any case a criticism, I don't know whether it's self-criticism or not, but it's a criticism that you've felt me doing on more than one occasion – it's together with the Spanish economy the two unique economies of the world, not just the western world, of the world, that in the last thirty years you've experienced three crises that have brought the levels of progress to more than 20_per_cent; it hasn't gone anywhere else than the world. It is therefore clear that there are manifest shortcomings. It is obvious that for thirty years, or for thirty-five years, or for forty years, and certainly before, or indeed before, there are many things that have been done very badly in this productive structure that make every time there is an interbank the symptoms that produce this interbank in our economy are especially dramatic and especially cruel to many people in our country. Also absolutely in agreement with the analysis that many of these evils are not only of these past years of crisis but also of the immediately preceding period, with the imbalance growing between benefits, prices, wages... – I have tried to point it out literally, and it is a phrase that seems to me to be an expression, an analysis, a conclusion that we have served on many occasions – and underpinned all this in the perspective of a belief that was overly easy. So, too, in this sense, okay. Obviously, I also agree, and I have already expressed it a moment ago, with the considerations surrounding the amendment of Article 135 of the Constitution. With regard to the working poor, this morning we also made a very clear reference to this issue, not only to the problem of the poor, but also to the problem that many people are on the labour market, but that they are on the labour market with wages for the sake of the poor; we have spoken of the false autonomies; we have spoken of the people of more than forty, forty, fifty years, who are in a long-term, and perhaps very long-term, situation; we have spoken of the consequences that this will not only have in the past, because they are not only poor in the present time, but also the context, and the political decisions and the political decisions that until the present time are complete, because they are not only poor in the present time, but also the decisions and the political decisions that have been made, and the political decisions that have been taken, until the present time, because they are not only poor in the present time. We have been... well, at least some of us, absolutely opposed to these successive labor reforms, all of them without exception. At the same time, also, a reflection – this not so shared, I understand, at least not with the representative of the CUP and certainly not with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot – respects the fact that the fiscal context, the fiscal reality in which we are, cannot be analyzed in parallel with the fiscal context of our environment. Because there are fiscal decisions that we might agree with, but at the same time the agreement is probably not much to recommend, it is hardly viable, because the fiscal context that surrounds us would prevent us from having the beneficial effects that we would like to have; but, in any case, also, as you know – all of you, without exception – open to analysis. And, finally, the references of character..., related to the connection of the economy with people – the quote from Amartya Sen, etc., or the reference to the value of the French Revolution – it seems to me that..., I will now express with terms that can sound a little provocative, but that they do not have this will in absolute; in fact, express – express – values that are universal and that remind me of some of the values to which the representative of the People's Party referred, or before the representative of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. In the end, here, when we talk about economics, we talk about people, and the center of all our attention should be people, the rights of people, the dignity of people. And that's true of all considerations: of work, education, health care, in all areas. And in the end these values, which are of universal character, have been expressed at the length of history through seemingly different concepts but which, in fact, are very proper. The concepts of freedom, equality and fraternity that are propitious to historical republicanism, propitious to democratic radicalism, born with the French Revolution and that have characterized a good part of European thinking in contemporary times, in fact, have a parallelism– I do not know whether you would agree with it or not, but have a parallelism – with universal values also expressed for other cultural traditions that are very relevant in our context, such as, for example, the idea of the free will, the idea of the equality of all before God or the idea of the German, eh? So, what are these words? They are expressions of universal values. That they're associated with what? To a reality that is unquestionably, or should be unquestionably, the center of all our attention, which is the dignity of people. With the conviction that all of us are here to ensure the dignity of people and to help people, so I am convinced that tomorrow we will... – not only tomorrow, but also in the future – we will reach a lot of agreements and there will be a lot of consensus. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.40.0	In accordance with Rule 151.4 of the Rules of Procedure, we have now opened a new round of interventions to the parliamentary groups for the reply. In the first place, has the word Inés Arrimadas, from Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.41.0	Thank you, Madam President. President, Councillors, Councillors......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Junqueras has explicitly said this, I understand that Mrs. Munté when she said that some of us have recognized that she has incorporated us. We didn't just do it today, we did it all the time. We have always said that we understand that the political situation is very complicated, that the financial situation is very painful, that it is very complicated to govern at a time of crisis, we have always said. We have said it here and we have said it here where we are opposed to the rest of public administration or parliament in Spain. With regard to the reference you made to our agreement with the Socialist Party at the level of all of Spain, first of all, I am delighted; I am glad that you are also following the policy at the level of all of Spain, because that is obviously to recognize that this also affects Catalans. But I'd just ask him for a little something, and it's because he talks about it, so if I didn't get a little better. Because he said: "I have not found the document that you speak of duplicity and reduction of administrations that also fall under the central administration. Look, why don't you have so much trouble reading almost seventy pages, I'll tell you you can watch, huh? ..., you can see, page 57 or page 65, we are talking about the reduction of administrative levels and we are talking, in a very ambitious but very necessary way, about the elimination of doubles and political bars. In addition, I was spared much, because I spoke thirty minutes– thirty minutes–; I spoke of many questions: I spoke of sanitation, education, I also spoke of public administration, I spoke of poverty, equality, but the only thing that has blown the alarms of the world has been to eliminate "political syringues". It's because of the old parties that we're taking away the political syringuites that we're taking to the election program... [[some applause]] I'll do it – I'll do it. Because you make a speech that is a trap, and they say: "Some public administrations have skills and have services, and therefore if they eliminate these administrations, then we will lose the services. No, no, one thing is political structures and one thing is different is public services. And what is happening in this country – and I refer not only to Catalonia, of course, but to all of Spain – is that we have many political structures that are duplicated and threefold full of party endolates and we have basic services like small ones. And of course they can't say that public administrations don't have competitions. You said, "Do you know that local councils have skills? Oh, and so much so, of course they do serve, and provincial deputies also, and, if I'm not misinformed, some of their companies also want to take them out and you want to eliminate them, and that's what we can agree on. What happens is that their cost is not justified to donate the service they have to donate. We need less political structures and more public services, and what we have in this country is that every time we've been adding new political structures and every time we've had less money for the service, which is why it matters to the citizen. And you say: "And do you not recognize that the central administration is wrong? So much! If you have the same problem as the Government of Spain! If you've been fighting all day, but you've ruled the same way for thirty-five years! Now, you criticize the government of Spain, and the government of Spain criticizes the government of the Generality. Ah, but of his own, no one makes any kind of self-criticism. That's why we have freedom, because we don't think of the Government of the Generality or the Government of Spain, we think of the citizens, and the citizens so much of the resources that go into the rubble of the duplicates when the competition is of the Generality of Catalonia as when the competition is of the Government of Spain; so much so because it affects the citizens' butxaca, come from where we come from. That's why we have freedom and we can talk so clearly about eliminating the greek, the central administration, and as much as we do, and here, where we also have, like..., because, for example, now he was looking at a date that is very significant: Catalonia has three times more entities than the Generality of València – three times more. Home, do we need them all? And I don't think the Valencian Community is an example of management, huh? And less of it now. But it's a structural problem: you're fighting with the Spanish government all day. Certainly, you also have unconstitutionality resources. This very week they were talking about the resources presented to the Government of the Generality. But that's not judicializing politics, that's defending the generality's interests. And when the Spanish government does that, it's judicial. Home, if you could try to agree on some little thing, that I'm sure the citizens could benefit from all of this. And, besides, does he know one thing that we do and that doesn't do either the Government of Spain or the Government of the Generality? Recognise that both – both – have also done good things in thirty-five years. And this, right now, seems impossible for you to recognize that the Government of Spain has also done good things, or the Government of Spain to recognize exactly the same as the Government of the Generality. Because we do not think in terms of administration, parties, powers, generalities: we think in terms of citizens. And that's why we propose things that no one has ever proposed, and that, if it wasn't for us and it was our bargaining or influence power, that now we have, all of Spain, in different autonomous communities, if it wasn't for us, no old party would be putting forward the proposals that we are making. And just a little..., she said: "No, it's not that there was a very concrete issue in the ruling agreement with the Socialist Party. Home, we haven't talked about everything in the government agreement, because there are two-hundred measures, obviously, the electoral program is much broader. But you know one thing that's not forgotten, in the ruling agreement with the Socialist Party? Corruption. Which is the second concern of Catalans and the rest of Spanish citizens. Do you know who was forgotten to talk about corruption in the government agreement? To you, both to the Republican Left as now to the lords of the CUP. So, a mike, too, from... [[Some applause.]] And finally, with the analysis of the Government Agreement that we have signed with the Socialist Party – because Mr Junqueras also referred to it, and that also cheers me, because this also means that they have looked at it – you have said something that is not true: you have said that in the Government Agreement with the Socialist Pact we have included only a game of 7,000_million euros of social spending. That's a lie. The €7,000_million are only – only – the starting point for the wage supplement and the vital minimum wage. Therefore, who is called upon to say that if Ciutadans governed in Spain would only allocate 7,000_millions to social policies, because then he spoke of dependence. I understand that you are very busy and, therefore, I am sure you have not been able to look very deeply into the agreement, but the only thing we ask is that you do not tell lies. Because that's very easy to beat, because it's written, because it's published: it's only €7,000_million for salary supplement and vital income. And then it seems to me..., actually, I don't think you've done enough self-criticism – rather, not to mention one – because you haven't said anything about a self-criticism of the Generality's management in thirty-five years. Because they could, because Republican Left and Convergence have ruled the Generality of Catalonia all the years of democracy. Something must have come up with the poor data in Catalonia, something, I say. And I haven't found in the speech any kind of self-criticism, any kind of recognition of all the things that might have been done better and that haven't been done. And then I'm sorry to have to say again, the appeal that you, Mr. Junqueras, a left-winger, supposedly left-winger, do another time to insolidarity. I say to him: this speech to see how much each one pays and how much time, has that been done by you as mayor? Is that what you did as a Member of the European Parliament? I'm sure you don't. And the Lord But, too, said a few moments ago: "It is that we cannot go to Europe... – and that has been said many times by the people of Esquerra – we cannot go to Europe making this speech of insolidarity and looking at how much we pay and how much we do not pay, because, of course, this would not be understood to Europe. And he'll never get along. It's not that she wouldn't get along, it's that she'll never get along. And therefore, we believe that this is not a speech from the Government of the Generality because it is not moral, it is not logical and it is not European. And as we want to do moral politics, as we want to do logical politics, and as we want to do political politics, we also want to buy this speech from a European brand. And, besides – just a little reflection on resources – it's not just about how many resources we have – it's not just about how many resources we have – it's just about how we spend them. You said: "With 50,000_million euros there would be no poverty. Depén, it's about who the policies were. There have been very few countries of solidarity, that manage very poorly, and autonomous communities that, with the same skills that we have, therefore, manage better than what is now being done to the Generality of Catalonia. Because you know what it's like to manage. We still remember the management of the tripartite and the debt, which was so critical of Convergence and Union – now it is not so critical, because it has multiplied it. So, is there any room to improve what's there? Yeah. Is there any room for the opposition to have a more extensive, understanding of the economic and financial situation of the Generality? Yeah. But with a self-criticism, priority, programs to generate wealth and spend better money. There are reforms that also serve to eliminate the greek public administration that only serves the political parties – and that's why it puts the top hairs on some old parties – and strengthen social policies and economic policies. I don't think we've been talking about rich generation, occupation generation policies yet. And we can't address the problem of the poor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.42.0	Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.43.0	...without approaching him...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.44.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.45.0	Yes, I'm done, Madam President. This morning too, a little bit of intervention has spread, and I would understand that we could do it now, too. Therefore, I say to you another time: we can agree on many things, Mr Junqueras, in very many, but to have an understanding opposition and a constructive opposition and an opposition that at a given moment, without asking anything, I can give support to the Government in some concrete question, we need a realistic government, a self-critical government and a government that I manage...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.46.0	Madame Arrimadas, it's run out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.47.0	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.48.0	...I'm having a hard time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.49.0	... Mr. President, Mr. Councillors, Mr. Councillors. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.50.0	The words of Mrs Eva Granados, of the Socialist Group, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.51.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice President, Councillors, Members and Members who still resist, at these times, the debate, a greeting to all. I want to make a confession to these late-night heights, now. We, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, yesterday, when the Councillor, the Neus Munté, was to leave the press wheel of the Executive Council, we expected some announcements: a plan, a commission... something that gave us an image, a message that the Government, therefore, wanted to set out to work, that wanted to make a gesture, that wanted to confront the plenary. We remembered, two years ago, that the spokesman, the Homs, the Councillor Homs, came out, saying that not a hard one, that there was nothing and that this from the poor was very related, because all of life there had been poor. That was two years ago. As we see a different tarann, I say: "Something will happen tomorrow. But it wasn't like that. I've said it before: they haven't even coordinated with each other. Let's get out of the government's intervention. And the truth is that – before I told the councilwoman – we expect transparency. Councillor Munté, there was no follow-up to the agreements of the previous plenary; we had to ask her why the parliamentary groups were included in the follow-up committee, and with the Republican Left they avoided it. That is to say, the parliamentary groups could not be on this follow-up committee. I hope that tomorrow, when we present a resolution different groups of this chamber, Together for the Yes, this transparency that they preach, practice and gather us this proposal for a resolution. Vice President Junqueras, who I have the feeling that... – and he's a council – that he may have to adjust the roles a little bit still, right? because it seems that he has come here to mark the opposition; and to parliamentary debate, when we question, it is the opposition that challenges the government. And, of course, you're the head of the government's partner opposition, and now you're the government, but you're opposed to the opposition. This will have to be adjusted, because it is clear that here you come to comment on what we give the others, in account of explaining what they think you are doing... Because, of course, here we are all waiting for what the government is planning to do. [[Greetings.]] My iaia said a lot of beak and little shovel. [[Give me the applause.]] And on this occasion I understand that you feel far away from the Socialist Party; you are ruling with whom you are ruling. So, it seems fantastic to me. Beyond saying how far they feel about the different parliamentary groups, I expect the vice president of my country to come here – you're making assumptions – explain what margin you're planning to do. While the Ple was performing... we all guessed we were getting whatsapps, and I didn't get a few. And a long time ago told me: "I was at the SOC the other day, I ran five tables, and no one could tell me if there was anything for me. Clearly, the councilwoman has undertaken and has returned to me on Twitter, and I say it here, from the Faristol: that's what they tell me the long-running stops. I think SOC workers are well informed about the programs. So, this happened. In Sant Adrià del Besos, I was also told that there is no driving force behind the youth guarantee. Cartels do, huh? But a driver of the youth guarantee, not the one we have. Therefore, the youth guarantee is not reaching out to the young people who need it the most, and that's why I was asking them how they think to do it. They came here, they made a general comment, very nice, but it's that, of answers, I don't care. We do know that they devote more resources to elite schools than to employment policies; we know that, because we see it in the assumptions, but a little more. There is a mantra they serve, which is: "The social and national axis is indestriable, isn't it? And they went over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and... And today the president said independence is the way to give response to the people's most immediate needs. And, therefore, what we have to say to everyone who listens to us... «Wait, from here to seven months, that perhaps there is some answer to something. Because, of course, if it is independence that needs to be answered, then we have to wait; that's what he told us. And what do we give them? That they don't wait seven months, that they have margin. We wait for the will, and that's why we invite them to agree and get something out of this House. Prioritzin: priority in Emergency, priority in Reactivation in a realistic way. We have priority, we don't do pieces, we don't do marathons, right? – said Gabriela Serra –, exhausting the economic margins – that we do not have much, we have said it many times –, we pursue fraud, increase taxes that can be increased and disconnect this independence from cohesion, because many Catalans do not expect this independence in any case. Other peoples of Spain, with the same fiscal deficits, make efforts, efforts that we expect from you. The margin is not exhausted. In Valencia, the People's Party did not have to come to the state level to resort against anything, because they have passed resources to pay bills for lighting, gas and water to the joints. We've already told them: it's very easy, contract programs to social services, pass resources to the joints, which in the end are the ones that are paying. But, of course, we do a few decrees and the others, which are also quick with these things, so... we do the victim and we don't pay bills. That's what they did in València, handing over resources directly to the joints. They are co-opted by dependence and disability. I hope that tomorrow we can also talk about these issues and see that the margins that Ximo Puig has in place also President Puigdemont. The same goes for us with the consequences of the aid of dependence... which I say is the same law with the same funding in all the autonomous communities. What's underfunded? Yeah. What about the People's Party? Yeah. But it turns out that Catalonia is the autonomous community in which the great dependents are worse off. And that's what the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services says. Clearly, there have been many details, we agree, we share them, but it turns out that we compare ourselves between autonomous communities and, as there are autonomous communities that are the same or worse than we are, so it turns out that it is no longer independence, that it is no longer the inability to do nothing more; it is political will. In Balears; labour inspection, Consellera Bassa. One of the four contracts, when they made the campaign, was in law fraud. So, they've given rights to four thousand workers, and that doesn't usually cost you; it has political will. So, let's get down there. Aragó, they've just laid down now: guaranteed income from citizenship. In Catalonia the beneficiaries are less than 2010. All the day they say we're worse; so put more beneficiaries to the minimum income. No; it's unmodified and it's unrenewed. In the end, what we want, and we want to repeat it again, is to establish this social agenda for Catalonia and to be able not to make the struggle against the poor a point of an extraordinary plethora, but rather to incorporate it into the political agenda; to overcome the monotheme or combine it, if you want to be talking all day about independence, but we also talk..., we put these issues at the centre of the parliamentary dynamic: a social agenda for Catalonia. I've already told you what we think of your scotch plan: without a presupposition there's no scotch plan. So there's no such thing as a shambles. Bring the assumptions and we'll see what's going on. For the moment, we have no plan to give solutions to the real problems of citizenship. We're going to stretch our hands again. We want it not to be a failure. We've already incorporated it, we've asked for it from all groups. The previous time we put ourselves in contact with the government to try to make some agreements. Let's hope that in the hours that remain for us... the resolutions will now enter into the register, the transactions will be girls tomorrow at twelve. Therefore, if we are willing to compromise and reach agreement, we need to settle and we need to settle now. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.52.0	Next there is the word Ms. Marta Ribas, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.53.0	Thank you. Mrs. Figueras, she told us – and the president also told us this morning –: "They do not believe false hopes that generate frustration. And I repeat the same answer that I made in my previous speech and did it at that time to the president – as I was not, I was fantastically now, if he listens to me –: frustration is not giving answer, frustration that is asking us the entities that do not generate them is that we do not give answer to the situation. The frustration is that we are still talking, without setting dates of when it will be, that it will be a Catalan law of personal autonomy, when we have passed the entire last legislature listening to it in the mouth of Councillor Neus Munté, and all the previous listening to it in the mouth of Councillor Cleries. Since 2010 we've been feeling that it's going to do and that it's doing and that it's making the Catalan law of personal autonomy. This creates frustration. Let him now return to speak... that he has the whole right of the world, the Conseller Bassa, to speak to him again and to propose it. But I propose it with a date, with a project, with a concrete proposal. This creates frustration. Frustration is generated when we come from what we come from, from dilatory strategy in the last legislature respects the ILP of guaranteed income from citizenship, from Convergence and Union and from the Republican Left; and when a new legislature begins it is said that it is a new thing, if it is said that different things will be done, and we continue to live in this Parliament a dilatory strategy, through parliamentary delays, by groups that support the Government. Frustration is generated when a law of housing and poor energy has been approved, via an ILP, the past July, a few weeks and a few days that is called in a few elections, but seven months later it is not yet regulated to apply it! And the joints want to apply it, because they were already taking measurements, but they can't! - You can't! It's guaranteeing some rights that are in a law because there are no rules made, seven months after having approved that law, just at the gates that arrive at a few elections. Fantastic, which has been approved; but, listen, if it is going to be hard in the long run, then it has to be regulated. Frustration is that they tell us that 86 percent of the poor plenary has been filled and they claim that we rejoice. Listen, what was approved in that plenary of the poor – we told the opposition groups, but all social entities also said it – was absolutely insufficient. Therefore, that 86_per_cent of agreements that are absolutely insufficient does not make us jump out of joy, counsel – does not make us jump out of joy. But it is that, moreover, when the first point of the resolutions adopted in the 2014 plenary of poverty..., said the first point: "Defining an objective of reducing the poverty levels for the next four years and, as a minimum, fulfilling the objectives set by the Lisbon agreements. In four years, reduce via the Lisbon goals. We wear two, those four years, and only the poor increased, and the poor that was there made harder, and the inequalities increased. I suppose this is not one of the points that they pose as complete in 84_per_cent; I already believe, counsel, that this does not include it, but that the first point, which was to reduce, obviously, did not reduce, that it was the main objective of the plenary of the poor, and, obviously, did not. They do not pretend that we rejoice or that we arrive at this plenary with a certain satisfaction because yesterday it was announced that 86 per cent of the agreements of the plenary of poverty in 2014 had been completed. Mrs. Figueras, completely in agreement with the report of hardships that they make respect for the insensitivity of the Government of the People's Party of the State and the effects that this obviously generates; also in the difficulties of the Government of the Generality to face the situation, completely in agreement; but you have little fang to be able to denounce things certainly. I know it's hard, but sometimes you have to remember, because it's because we also felt in this room during the day that some group didn't remember, some group didn't remember that the Labour Reform of the People's Party also approved Convergence and Union. Well, let's vote together, as we have done so far and will continue to do so in favour of transferring 0.7_per_cent of the IRPF to social ends for Catalan entities; let's do it, we did it, let's do it. Obviously, we will continue to vote as we did and we will continue to fight against a law such as the LRSAL, which three joint powers respect, precisely, therefore, to basic social services, but some of us have been denouncing it here, but also denouncing it and voting it in the Congress of Deputies, and we are following it, that we need resources to be able to do these social policies, and that can't be done for a life of austerity, and that can't be done with a labor reform that has carried on workers' rights and that has precarized the work, and that can't be done..., that yes, it voted Convergence and Union, and that can't be done with a law of estabilitative presupposition that also voted Convergence to the Congress of Democracy, that can't be done with a law of freedom. Therefore, it counts on the little fangs that some have to report things. As some of us don't have them, these little fangs, I think we have all the ability to tell the People's Party that they have no moral value to come here and give lessons on how to fight the poor, inequality. You can't come to tell us anything in this room after all the regressive laws that have been applying to us and killing us against the interests of the people of Catalonia and the rest of Spain during these years. We recognize, Mr Junqueras, the difficulties of the moment – we have done so before, we will continue to do so – the infra-financing of the Government of Catalonia to be able to tougher political terms. And we offer ourselves, we repeat the offer to continue helping to claim this funding just, but, listen, that's not... [[The joker laughs.]] And I repeat: this does not have to be used to cover the abilities that you do have to be able to make a plan of more ambition than 270_million euros. Right, it's not a 0.5_percent of the presupposition, it's a 0.7_percent of the integrated presupposition of 36.942_million euros of the past and now extended year. It's a 0.7_per_cent, he's right. Can we move from 0.7 percent to a little bit more? If the only one you have tried... you, Mrs. Figueras, Mrs. Munté, with your interventions respect the credibility or not of Catalonia's proposals Yes, it is possible to ask for more pressure to be able to finish them. If the only one you have tried with these interventions is to avoid the assertion that you do not think of setting a euro more than 270_millions, that you are not willing to increase 0.7_percent of the Generality's integrated assumption, that you are not able to do as you like the assemblies, to talk about a 3 or a 4_percent... Mr Junqueras, an 80_percent of the Generality's assumption is finalistic, is not more play than 270_millions respects the other 20_percent of the Generality's assumption to which everyone here agrees that it is a country priority, that it is an urgent country priority? We are concerned – we are concerned – that they are telling us this without saying, that their silences are telling us that there will be no more than 270_million to do this; we are concerned that neither today nor yesterday, as the PSC said, the government has not taken advantage of the opportunity of an extraordinary ple of social emergence to explain plans to attack social emergence. We're worried; we're worried because we wouldn't want to think about it, but it makes us think that maybe there's no project. And that worries us, because, obviously, we also ask you to apply it, a phrase that asked me to apply to Mrs. Figueras as well. It's not politically ethical to promise what you can't implement. It is not politically ethical to ask the people to wait seven months or divide and promise the moon, that it will not exist and that it cannot be implemented. Look, we're replacing them that, please, tomorrow correcting what you haven't been able to do like the government with this opportunity that we've given them with this extraordinary Social Emergencies Plenary, which is to come up with concrete proposals to give solution to the social Emergencies that exist today and to start changing the course, as I gave them to my previous intervention. We don't ask them – we don't ask them – and we don't ask them what they can't do; we ask them not to stop doing anything that they can. They'll tell us tomorrow whether or not they'll accept this retreat. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.54.0	Next, the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.55.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Ribas, I did not want to give any lessons, I wanted to position us and launch, it is true, a message of funds, which Mr Junqueras, for example, has read and you have not read. So, what are we gonna do? Maybe what you could give us is a master about how to destroy occupation when one is in government, right? That's what they did when they were in the government. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Certainly, Mr. Junqueras was given by Mrs. Granados, who was the role she had adopted. I believe that you have adopted the role of the new Hegel, that is, the new synthesis of all the positions of the chamber that are now passing through the... [[The timer laughs.]] Mr. Junqueras is a mermaid of synthesis, from the People's Party to the CUP, isn't he? You talked about going back to the old princes. Yes, indeed, those old principles that perhaps the step of time, of practice, the pulse and political vices, therefore, have been laying on our chariots. I, in this sense, also recommend that you return to the old principles of the Republican Left's founding manifesto and to its position on the structure of the State, and perhaps if we all return to the old principles, it turns out that the origin... It's not that we're close – it's not that we're close – but maybe we can still find bridges. I, on the other hand, and I was commenting on it with some company... I would advise Munté, I would advise... Of course, so much has changed the roles of the government that... I wonder, the truth, I was commenting that we have found, for some time now, a lightness in the extreme discourse, on the part of Convergence and the representatives of Convergence that we do not find in the other groups of the sovereignist spectrum, even so much. That's to say, it stranges me; it stranges me because..., and I find it sad and I find it sad, because you, in private, I don't get used to it, but in public..., and you don't have to be aware. I recommend you, not in the forms, but in the background of your intervention, that you see it again, because there has been a constant, permanent, total in-depth charge against the People's Party as ultimately responsible for all the suffering that is going on in Catalonia. And five years ago... – five years ago, no, because the prince ruled – four years ago they did this, and in the end it fell to the people, you know? And that went down, and we were told. And for you there's no problem, that, but for us, we do, and they ask you... Yes, president, they ask you to consider it, to look at the intervention, because it's very similar to what you did this morning. And no other representatives of other sovereignist spectra have done so. And we find ourselves in this situation, and he was talking about it with someone else in the party. Consider this, because political positioning does not need to be linked to this constant belgency against another party. In the same way... it's clear that you make this speech, childish, toxic, to say that it's always the fault of the others, that hell is the others, that because of the others we live worse, right? But now think, think, imagine if the government of Spain had been four years, that we could have done it, huh? , four years ago: « Brussels, Brussels, is that they are Brussels, and the deficit they impose on us, and fixed, the year 2003 in Germany was allowed a more relaxed system of the deficit and they were able to pull more forward, and then in France a few times they were also forgiven and, on the other hand, we have been swept away by the Brussels bureaucracy... And Brussels, that they want to kill us, and I don't know what, and as and what... it's clear, and four years ago, and they're creating resentment against Brussels. And we, while, then, go on and on about creating national cohesion and... And that's what you're doing here. And it's not ethical, it's not maco, it's not hard to do it. On labour reform, which has been discussed recently in this House. The Spanish labor market was a fort – a fort – and, of course, in the end it has to be decided: what do we do, we absolutely shield the situation of what is between and the 5_millions that are outside, we leave them, or we lower a little – a little – the walls because people can enter them? It's true that some people do, yes, it's true, it's true that some people do, but in the end, because people can get in there..., that's to say, we can't give up helping those who are out simply to fully shield the situation of those who are between. And the proof that it has been effective is that a million people have found occupation; they have found occupation and are gaining better life than in the past. So, you, sometimes, it's clear, what you're doing is a stationary, counter-reformist speech, armoring certain determinations..., shielding, so, privileges, that don't allow other people who are having a hard time to hope for. And then there's another question that's the subject of dependence, and here, we really demand that they stop lying, because people can't be fooled into a subject that affects them so radically in their lives, and it affects so radically a situation of patience and not being able to move, and what you can't tell is that the Government of Spain isn't putting the money in. There are two ways to finance dependence on the part of the Government of Spain – there are two ways –: the Immerso and the autonomous financing system. When you say that the Government of Spain has only put so much money, you only have one of the lives, but you forget the other, of the lives, and the Court of Auditors, will advise, and if that is not the way I pray you to clarify it, but the Court of Auditors has published, before everyone else, that the State has financed, that the Government of Spain financed the Law of Dependency in 50_percent in 2012; 50_percent in 2013, dependency, and 55_percent in 2014. Therefore, his speech is false according to the Court of Auditors, and you cannot fool the big people and depend on them to rely on these aids for their daily life. They don't play with their feelings and their pain situation. And finally, about childhood. I believe that it would be a good compromise of the government in this House to deploy the legislation, to provide it with a presupposition before a year, the same way as with the Law of Accessibility. It is clear that before I spoke about Mrs Ribas, I said: "You have approved a law on housing which you have not yet deployed. It is that the Law of Accessibility, which also this morning will advise it – if it has been the Councillor Munté, or now I do not remember it exactly – has also said: "We have made a Law of Housing. Well, it's not deployed. And the same goes with childhood and adolescence. Therefore, fewer pacts, fewer plans, fewer documents, fewer fireworks and more decisive actions to fight the poor. Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.56.0	Next, has the word "Mrs. Gabriela Serra", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.57.0	Thank you, President. President, councillors... Councillor Munté, I had finished my intervention saying that I feared that today's plenary would correct the risk of wanting to fight the poor but not act in consequence; neither in consequence nor with consistency, right? And you made a little respite, and you said that actually from the previous plenary of the poor, they came out deceeming, and they came out deceeming for two reasons that you posed on the table: one part, because the economic eye certainly does not allow measures, and second, because on the part of opposition or groups there is not enough political realism. I believe that this is something we have to do in part, because the economic effect... We think that it will be necessary to apply measures that allow this political realism to be extended, because, if political realism and economic measures and measures go together, we say: why not do it, why not look for measures that allow us not to get out of this House and allow us to expand political realism? We say: there are measures that we can take. There are fiscal measures; there are measures such as improving the autonomous network; there are measures such as the taxation of assets and estates, improving them; there are measures such as combating fraud and corruption; there are measures such as reconsidering the payment of the debt; there are measures such as prioritizing the needs of the most impoverished and disadvantaged social sectors; there are measures, like so many others, and other taxes that we could look for. And they're not revolutionary measures, not much of an anti-capitalist, are they? – we would like to – they are simply fairer taxation measures, more redistributive taxation measures, right? You said, and that's true, right? , that the agreements are not always plasmen, you said, on the assumptions. No – no. Here previous companies and companies that have preceded me we have talked about that not always agreements are plasmen, not always agreements are reached, not always agreements are deployed. Why? Perhaps for this economic benefit and this concept of political realism that we obviously do not share. Why? Because, honestly, we're looking for agreements that the capgirinel system responsible for this impoverishment or we're not going anywhere. Vice-President Junqueras said to me: "We share the diagnosis, but do not receive them; but he did not tell me which receipts do not share. Therefore, I say to him: if we share the diagnosis, I mean we share that the poor is structural, and the poor is the fruit of a neoliberal system – that this one is capitalist, eh? , at all – a capitalist neoliberal system. Therefore, if we share this, that is the diagnosis, we cannot say that we do not share the receipts, as, for example, we begin to eradicate the proliferation of low-skilled jobs, because we also share the diagnosis that the production system is a disaster; we must share the receipt that establishing a minimum wage is necessary; we must share the receipt that labor legislation, despite the explanations given to us by the PP company, but that we share with Catalonia Yes, it is possible with other groups, it is legislation that leads to precariousness, which leads to the loss of the working dignity of our people. Either we share these receipts or then I mean we're not sharing the diagnosis either, huh? Therefore, this should be clarified. And these measures, I insist, are not revolutionary measures, they are measures of social justice. And, therefore, we have to go here. He will advise Munté, you said: "Political priorities – political priorities – are plasmen in the assumptions. Yeah, I don't. Not only. Because it is also plantagen and plasmen in the compliment of the agreements; it is plasmen in the deployment, in the execution. And above all, in such a special legislature as we have, political wills are also defended with a great deal of courage, with a great deal of courage and a great deal of courage. And we must engage them in questioning, disobeying everything that goes against authentic measures against the impoverishment. Because, if we don't, we'll get out of this House, say we're down, and we'll get out of this House, say we don't have to do more poverty, and we'll get out of this House, and we'll get out of this House, and we'll get out of this House, and we'll get out of this House, and we'll get out of this House, and we'll just have to talk about who managed better and who managed worse, instead of saying what measures we have to take, structurally and against the poor, so that we can say that we're working with something from this House of the poor. Therefore, it is necessary to apply measures to extend political realism, to extend measures with great courage, to question the financial policy, to question labour regulations and, above all, to know that the people of the street are waiting for us, demanding and asking us. "Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.58.0	Then has the word Lord Chakir the Homrani, from Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.59.0	Good afternoon, good evening. Thank you, President. President, Councillors and Councillors, Members and Deputies – I would say that there are already a few guests... –, I think that everything has been said, and I will take advantage of this short intervention, more than anything else, because I think that it has finally become clear that in this debate there are two lines: a line that is very clear, that is to say, that it is the day on which the results of this extraordinary plenary are to come out – we have to finish having some proposals for a resolution that can be carried out and that give response to a reality that we have all shared in the diagnosis, and then there is another element that I believe is well known, that it is very positive, that there has been a more profound debate – and more so – that we cannot avoid the fact that we speak very much about the poor; From here I want to leave by the end of the intervention, from this brief intervention, what we hope will be tomorrow, but I do think that it is interesting, like at least, from their interventions to make a couple of reflections. I have learned that many of the forces here present and of the parliamentary groups have us, there, accused that we are always talking about the same, and... In short, because this debate requires a look at our society, our citizens and citizens, that is to say, long and short, and we have never been fooled by this. Our look from this point of view... we think that a part that allows us a solution to get to have a fairer society..., and that's simple, and that's why we're here, and that's why we're a group that even in our name represents us, together for the Yes, and we're very honest. And I got away with this point where we're always in the same debate. And it came to my mind because in the basic themes one of the themes that arose the most followed the world of work, and I think it is absolutely necessary: the world of work, a productive model. And it came to my head the first time I had a relationship with this Parliament, the Parliament of Catalonia, and many years ago, huh? , it was 2004 – it was earlier, it had no beard and it had long hair: it changed the subject a lot. And it was to present an initiative, which was that the European Social Charter, which marks the minimum interprofessional wage, is complicated in the Spanish State. I was in an entity, in a youth entity, in this social movement and social network that we are all content with today's participation, and that I believe that we have all succeeded, in this social network, in this social movement that has a value that I sometimes believe we do not take into account in this country, the value that our social network has; I was there, I come from there. And we didn't make an ILP – I also took part in a committee promoting an ILP; after I talked about it, to talk about frustration too – we decided to make a campaign to collect signatures, for two years we collected signatures and we got 68,000 signatures to change this and we brought it to the Parliament of Catalonia, because it was a Catalan entity. So simple. We carry it, the Parliament of Catalonia approves the proposal, and, as it is the competence of the State, the transfer to the State. Here it is approved..., there were not so many political forces, but it was approved for all except one, which was the People's Party, which voted against it. It's a gateway to Congress – we already know how it goes, from 2004 to 2009, I've had a micket on me, I've already cut my hair. [[relays]] – and we're going to Congress; it's turned down. And it is rejected with the vote against a political force that voted in favour of the Parliament, which is the PSC. That, I'm sure Mrs. Ribas agrees that this is frustration, and frustration of the good. So, if we're on this project, it's to avoid this frustration, the truth. And, like we're a reality that's a very plural reality, we come from all over again, we'll always be spreading our hands, because we think that at length we'll all end up seeing that we can add up to make a better society. And I think it's very, very important... because when we were talking about the background themes, the model produced with little fang, which has been reported many years ago and we haven't had the ability to change it – but years ago and breads and breads, and we haven't had all folds, huh? , and everyone has passed it – we have not had this ability, say: « Home, therefore, we can have these tools. And we honestly think it's a possible way, and we think it's very honest that a person didn't share it or that a political group didn't share it. What we think is dishonest is that they don't allow us to throw it away if we can – and we think we have it – the strength we need to throw a collection project forward, which is what we want to do. And that's what we think is dishonest. Work. We've talked a lot about work, we've talked a lot about labor reform, and we've talked about unions, and even Mrs. Granados has told us that collective bargaining has disappeared. It's that I was amazed; I say: "Home, that collective bargaining has disappeared... Thanks to God we have in Catalonia some great unions, of all colors, that have worked very hard and that they have suffered two labor reforms that have touched them the spring of the bone, that are from 2010 and 2012, and that have continued to defend this reform the..., defend this collective bargaining. [[Widow's remorse.]] And it's so complicated. And in this sense I remember everyone, because everyone is with a guy who suddenly looks at me, who is looking at Junts' electoral program for the Yes, and they see that in Junts' electoral program for the Yes you say that you have to recover the..., you have to recover [[Funnel veils]] ...,no,administrative capacity,administrative capacity,in EROs. And that's what you mean..., it means repealing the labor reform. It's as simple as that. And this, please... look at the election program. And speaking of frustrations to me, I was also overwhelmed when she posed as the model of the Valencian Generalitat. I believe that here we are all very happy with the political change that has made the Valencian Generalitat, we are all very happy. Surely those who are not happy are the political force that ruled before and who wanted to deal with them, which has to deal with the PSOE at the state level; it is of those curious things. But the Valencian General has in its assumption a presuppositional game of 1,300_million euros, which is said quickly, that it is an extraordinary contribution of the State without recording, because they say it will come from the new model of financing. I think we all know that in this way you can... then they'll accuse us of the deficit and that we haven't just generated debt, say... but it's very, very curious. He's very, very curious. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] Just as I've been spared – and I'm honestly saying this because we had this debate with Mr. Marc Vidal at the Labour Commission, and I know it's hard – when you accused us of having dilatory strategy with guaranteed citizenship income. I think it's unfair. I think it's unfair because you know that we've put ourselves in contact with the promoter committee... I've been a member of a promoter committee from which your ILP waited seven years – seven years, huh? – and you know her very well. And then it was dilators, huh? But the first one I did was to stay in touch with the promoter's commission, explain to them the petition they were going to make, and they authorized us to make this petition. And, unfortunately, we have not been able to – already had poenencia – because this week, which should have been the commission that was to constitute poenencia, we cannot do the commission. And they know perfectly well to the commission that the week – three weeks from now – that it may be set up. And we're sure we'll discuss it a lot. And we're sure that with you, respect the model, we'll have a lot of agreement. But it's been hard for me, because we've been talking to the promoter committee, and I think you know that, and I think it's been unfair. That's it, and I think it was unfair. Beyond that, I'm the only one left now, after that – because I think it was..., that it didn't matter, but I think that sometimes things have to be made clear –, talking about what we're going to find tomorrow, what I think this civil society is waiting for, that it's very powerful, and that we all agree, and that we all work because we can be here today, waiting for the citizens. And what they're waiting for is that the job we do with PRs is a job that, in a few months' time, they can visualize. And this is our responsibility. And, at a time, to keep this debate on foundations, this debate on foundations that we have started, that we always have to do, in the plenary of Parliament, in committees, and that is one of the debates on foundations that we want to plant in the process constitute to see, around all the structural weaknesses that our society has, how to face it. And that is what will allow us, in the long run, to have a fairer and better society. And I am sure that tomorrow we will be able to come to a great deal of agreement; if we go with this vision, with the vision that the citizens of this country, the civil society of this country, can see proposals that can be made in the next few months and that, indeed, improve the life situation of the weakest, the weakest, the most respectable, which we must respect as much as possible, and that is what we feel at work in this Parliament. All right, all right, Thank you. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-09-1101.60.0	The debate is over, so that, in order to compliment Article 152 of the Rules, the procedure for the subsequent motions for resolutions to this general debate will follow: the deadline for submitting the motions for resolutions is until half an hour after the debate is over; therefore, on the eighth day of the debate – on the eighth day. The communication to the parliamentary groups of the motions for resolutions accepted by the Bureau will be two minutes after the end of this term. Okay? [[Pause.]] I mean, he's got eight and a god. The deadline for submitting the compromise proposals will be until tomorrow, you said, at twelve. The communication to the parliamentary groups of the proposals accepted will be half an hour later, that is, two-quarters of one. The deadline for requesting a separate vote on the motions for resolutions will be until tomorrow. And the debate and vote on the motions for resolutions will be tomorrow, you said, at three in the afternoon. They suspect the session till tomorrow.
