ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to all of you. I would like to point out that, since the Committee on Institutional Affairs met this morning to assess the suitability of the candidate proposed for the President of the Generality to occupy the post of Director of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia, Mr. Miquel Àngel Gimeno Jubero, and thus complete the procedure established by Law 14/2008 of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia, the proposal to be able to include a new item in the order of the day, relating to the procedure for electing the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office. This point will be made tomorrow, you said, after point number 13, that is the Code of Conduct Project for Members of the Parliament of Catalonia. For this reason, ask the chamber whether, in accordance with the provisions of Article 81.3 of the Rules of Procedure, it is possible to agree to this proposal to alter the agenda. Can I approve for absence? [[Pause.]] All right, then. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Tomorrow, before... after the Code of Conduct, this point will be substantiated. [[Ask the Government about hospital personnel policy]] [[310-00113/11]] The next item is questions to the Government. The first question is about the hospital staff policy, presented for the Grupo Parlamentari in Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mr. Martín Barra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.2.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, during the years of crisis, Catalonia has been the autonomous community that has cut the most in health. Last year we were third parties but by the tail, in per capita budget in health care. These cuts have had a brutal impact on the staff of the ICS hospitals: in 2011 there was a tremendous decline – in the case of the hospital of Tortosa, a 16_per_cent – even more collapsed in 2013 and 2015 we have 1,392 fewer professionals in the staff of the ICS hospitals. Counselor, what are your plans to reverse these staff cuts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.3.0	There's a word from Salut's advisor, Mr. Antoni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.4.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. MP, I'm already on condition to give you a given that until now it was not public, that is that the presupposition executed, that is what matters, the presupposition deserved, that is what matters, from the Department of Health, for the year 2006, will be the most..., the fourth highest..., for the year 2016, will be the fourth highest in the history of the Generality of Catalonia. As you know, the year 2010 and the year 2009, the presupposition executed was about 10,300_millions; the year 2008 was about 9,800_millions, and this year we would make a presupposition deserved 9,000..., around 9,700_millions. Therefore, we are only 600_millions... – not 1,300_millions, as it is always repeated –, only 600_millions of the highest assumption of the department's history. This will be the assumption of 2016, the highest quarter of the story: 600_million, the highest. That said, we are doing many stability policies of the ICS template, which I will explain in detail in my second part of the answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Martín Barra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.6.0	Thank you. I am deeply pleased that health budgets have a priority for your Government. But, you see, it happens that these days we are witnessing a campaign of independenceist entities in which they use perversely, very perversely, gross comments from two enterprising subjects: from « Spain steals us to « Spain kills us. How little shame! You have already spoken about those comments, I invite you to do so also about that campaign, because what has really destroyed Catalan health has not been those two subjects coming up rudely, talking about the cases of corruption associated with Mr. Bagó and company; what has really destroyed Catalan health has been the corruption itself and the cuts of the department. I suppose you remember the campaign of those years. [[The orator shows a full chamber.]] « Cuts kill. And this time I'm not wrong about paper. "The cuts killed, they said, and it was true, in 2012 the mortality rate in Catalonia was higher than in previous years, for the first time in history. He was another health advisor, he was another government, but he had the support of his political group, and on this occasion it is up to you to step up to solve it. The problems of public health in Catalonia are not just to withdraw some concerts from some profit-making clinics, some of them and some of them not. To solve the problems of public health, the staff and the means of public health, primary care and hospitals must be recovered. According to the data that your department has given me – which has cost me a bit to link them, because it did not answer me directly to the question, but, well, add, subtract and Excel, I do not get very badly – we are 4,350,000 Catalans who depend on an ICS hospital ; 4,350,000 Catalans, Mr.Comin, who we hope you will get to work to solve these cuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. I've got the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.8.0	Thank you, President. "The cuts kill, you know perfectly well that during these last five years, the hope of life in Catalonia has not stopped increasing in men and women, and has not stopped increasing the hope of life with good health, in the last few years in Catalonia." [[Some applause.]] Luckily, and I think we're all happy to know that. ICS personnel policy; hands-in-hand, I explain it perfectly. Things that are being done at these times, even if there is no assumption – that this, I feel, but limits the government's margin of manoeuvre –, everything that we are doing with ICS staff: Stabilizing the ICS staff, we have increased the staff with 290 people during the last 12 months– u. Two: the extra straight pay of the year 2015 – two has been paid. Three, we are aflatishing, because you know perfectly well that one of the problems of the ICS is all the false eventuals, that they are occupying structural places and that, therefore, as a minimum, they have to go into action. Do you know how many plantings we've done? We have made 535 plantings. The compromise is, on 30 September, to make a plan for a total of 535 people. A public job offer was made in 2015, worth 340 places. Because you know, you know, the other problem with the ICS is that it's all interested parties that couldn't become fixed, because until last year we couldn't call, because the State wouldn't leave us, a public offer of employment. And when we got there, we did it and we called 340 places. And, as far as we can, we'll make a public offer of employment with all the law for the highest possible number. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.9.0	Second question, on public communication media, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Ask the Government about public communication media]] [[310-00114/11]] To expose it, has the word Mr. Fernando de Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.10.0	Thank you, President. Unfortunately, TV3 is news in the last few days, for erasing abdominals, for burning constitutions and, most seriously, for an increasingly decadent audience, losing leadership and the second worst audience data in TV3's history. One last list has to be added, one last one points to this list of disasters, which is when in its day we were called « phalangists, Mr Albert Rivera, president of my party. At that time we denounced him, in this very legislature; at that time, also the president in this case, the director and the programme's own presenter kept quiet. And a similar episode has been repeated; in this case, the Falangist has replaced himself with « fascists, calling us to this parliamentary group, this party, and also to the Party of the People's Party. On that occasion, the hostess of the programme also returned to silence. I don't know if you think I'm a fascist. I don't know if you think that I, who was born in democracy, who am twenty-eight years old, and am a deputy of the Parliament of Catalonia, am a fascist. I don't know if you think my colleagues are fascists or the more than three million voters who voted for Citizens are fascists. I want to think I don't. That is why you have an opportunity here, as we have not received any apology statement, not even a call from the director of TV3 to apologize to you, you have the opportunity to do so here, in parliamentary place. I would also like you to pledge that this will never happen again on public television in Catalonia, which is the television of everyone, also of those who do not think like you. I would like to know what is the criterion for the selection of tweets, what is the criterion for the selection of comments during TV3 programs, because it happens – and call me misunderstanding – that when they talk about Citizens are always negative comments, even offensive ones, like the one I am commenting on, where we are called « fascists to the face. I would ask you to reflect: how would you feel, if on public television from your autonomous community, from your country, you called a fascist a democratic party that is the leader of the opposition or any other democratic party in this chamber? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.11.0	Thank you, Mr. Paramo. Next, there's the words of Mrs. Neus Munté, the President's Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.12.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Member, public television in the Spanish State, which we pay with all our taxes, is tired of speaking in a lot of detail and at times making hateful comparisons with Catalan political leaders defending independent ideas and assimilating them to fascism. The last month of February, the 2th issued a certain documentary, it's called Race. We have listened by the mouth of presenters of the public television of the community of Madrid, Telemadrid, also hateful comparisons, comparing the president but with the fascism, also to the leaders of the Republican Left or to the same president of this Parliament. This is all very reprehensible – it is very reprehensible – in some cases and in others. With regard to TV3, it is not me to be addressed, we are talking about public media that, in Catalonia, at least, have been out of government for many years, I assure you. In any case, it will always find in this Government the support when it is produced any fact, which is absolutely punctual, that can be considered, therefore, that it lacks the truth or that it offends, from a democratic perspective, to any person. You're talking about punctual facts. Unfortunately, with public television in the State, which, I insist, we pay with the taxes of everyone and every citizen, also of Catalonia, unfortunately, we have had to listen to very hurtful comments and comparisons that are completely hateful. That said, we defend and defend, like the government, plurality and respect it to all opinions and beliefs, from public means of communication. And this is not my opinion, an opinion of the government or an opinion that anyone can have, this is perfectly supported with the criteria, with the data, with the reports, because the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation is the most controlled and audited in Europe. And so show the plurality reports of the ACC, a regulatory body that does not exist in Spain, which, in turn, is recognised, also, at European level.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.14.0	Thank you, President. You tell me not to address the councilwoman to talk about this topic and instead you talk to me about Spanish Television, as if I were the director of Spanish Television, when we do not even rule in this country, nor do we direct it. [[Some applause.]] You do exactly what PP and PSOE have done many years with Spanish Television, here in Catalonia. What happens is that you are seen even more by the plumer than these gentlemen. [[Widow's remorse.]] And opinions..., you talk about opinions: calling a fascist a political party is not an opinion, it is an insult. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.15.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.16.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, the concern you have for TV3 we know very well. We were going to listen to Mr. Albert Rivera say that "if it was for him, it's TV3 tank because there are already many other chains and that I didn't understand that this was a red line for the government. [[Some applause.]] More than a red line is that we will defend and never give up the Catalan public media, which they suppose for social cohesion, for the defense of language and, above all – above all – for the credibility that all their programs deserve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the reforms of the pediatric intensive care unit and the neonatal unit of the Hospital Doctor Josep Trueta, Girona]] [[310-00112/11]] Ask the Government about the reforms of the pediatric intensive care unit and the neonatal unit of the Hospital Doctor Trueta, of Girona, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot. To expose her, Mr. Marc Vidal has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.18.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Honourable Counselor, last July 7th you visited the Trueta Hospital and announced that it would be the second phase of the project of improvement for the pediatric ICU and the neonatal unit of this hospital. Who are the reforms planned and the economic endowment of this better plan?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. Greetings from the Councillor, Mr. Antoni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.20.0	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, Mr. Member, in effect, on July 7th, before groups of patients, professionals and the direction of the hospital, I explained that, in all the important package of investments that will be made in the current Trueta, while we do not have the capacity to build the new Trueta, that it is the goal of the maximum that is maintained by this Government with the city of Girona and with the health region of Girona, while, in this package of investments that we have to do to improve the current Trueta, one of them would actually be that of the pediatric ICU. And the pediatric ICU does it in two phases, precisely, to buy time, to go faster, not to go slower. The first phase is already running. You know it perfectly well, and, besides, it runs on the premises of the hospital and has a value of about 500,000 euros. The second phase will have an approximate cost – it has to be seen, depending on what the functional plan is – of about 2_million euros; the idea is that it is done during the year 2017, but the most important of all is that it will not make sense the participation of professionals. So, let's start with the beginning and start making the functional plan with the professionals, which is what we need to determine the exact cost of the work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.22.0	Yes, thank you, President. Counselor, I am glad, that you have spoken about the while, because you know as well as I do, because you should talk to the staff, that they made a manifesto, all the staff of these units, in which they considered that this plan that is now presented and that is to be executed is insufficient and unable to cover the requests of some reference services. And they also say they didn't count on them to talk about this plan. And I believe – I believe – that they are right in what they say. Look, my daughter was born thirty-one years ago to the Truth and the other day, visiting these units, I almost got excited, because I thought she was back at birth, because she was all exactly the same as she was thirty-one years ago. [[Rialles.]] Ironies aside, the staff already know, confirms that no structural reforms have taken place since more than thirty years ago; that the infrastructure is obsolete, because there is no space; that this space does not complete the minimum recommended for scientific societies or for the ministry; that there is a material shortage; that what has been there for years is not renewed, and that they are absolutely stressed together, because there is the minimum staff essential for the care of patients and their families, and that this implies a continuous effort. And what's harder: what the staff says is that patients can see unnecessary risk situations, because, for example, there are no specific areas for the isolation of patients with contagious diseases; or that in an area where dramatic situations are seen for the state of some babies, it is practically impossible to maintain a minimum deprivation with a certain dignity. I have seen it; you have also seen it, surely. And I'm afraid this whole thing couldn't be solved with a simple face-to-face rent, which would be this first phase. So, I'm glad that you've talked about the second phase, because I know that we're not in time to blow up pigeons, because of the money we have and why we don't have assumptions and all that; I know that we're hanging, as you said, for years now from a new hospital, that I'd also like you to make a little more like you think we're going to fall apart, because it's urgent, too, and that the fact that we're hanging back in the current True. But I also know and you also know that there are actions that are essential, such as these. I would ask you – and tell you what you think – to make an urgent assessment of these spaces and equipments, to present it to the staff to work with, to negotiate with them, and that from this assessment, in short, we can have a pediatric and neonatal unit at the height of some of the services that are of reference for all the gironineal businesses. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. Counselor responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.24.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, you say the ICU is just like the day your daughter was born. Do you know how proud I am to be able to say that, after thirty years, the work has finally begun at the Pediatric ICU and the Neonatalology of the Truety? What does he know that they've already started and that it's actually now that they've started and that it's the first time that it's a 30-year reversal in that ICU? Do you know how happy I am to be able to say that? Now, in order to save time... I was a good place there, on the spot, at the two ICUs, on both sides, neonatal and pediatric, and we were seeing those spaces, and we were explaining to ourselves what the idea of phase 1 was, which is a way of starting now the works, under the assumption of the hospital, without expecting the assumption of the Health Department of 2017, and with regard to the Cat Salut will be these approximately 2_million euros that will actually be spent on a functional plan that will be carried out with the professionals. And so it compromised the direction of the Truth, before me, with the professionals – we were all there – that this functional plan is going to make from the dialog, and it's a compromise that I know is being completed. So, we agree, we're happy. It will do phase 2 of the Pediatric ICU, it will do with the assumption that it will correspond to it. This, in addition, must be added to all the investment that we will make in our operating rooms – 12_million euros, that is not a small thing – and the investment that is already taking place in the new emergencies. And in any case, what you do to the ICU Pediatrics is going to make a difference with the professionals, as it can't be any other way. Therefore, I am pleased that we are so in agreement, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.25.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the use of biomass as a measure to prevent forest fires]] [[310-00110/11]] Fourth question to the Government, on the use of biomass as a measure to prevent forest fires. The question is posed by Mr Sergi Saladié, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.26.0	All right, thank you, President. Consellera Serret, now that they have begun to beat the great forest fires in the country, with fires in Nalec, Santa Coloma de Farners, Pallerols, Blanes or the one that is still creaming the Valencia Country, Artana, we have considered asking him this question about the profit of biomass as a measure of forest fire prevention, basically because we can say that, at the level of extinction, there is a time that for more resources or media that we stay there is no better efficiency. And in this sense we can say that it has already been resorted to much in what would be extinction and are already applying new measures, especially for the great body of professionals of the GRAF, in particular, and the Bomber Cos in general, which are giving, therefore, more or less, good results. Here the key issue is that Catalonia is a country that is eminently forested, even though from these four pairs and from an extremely urban-centric view, therefore, costs to appreciate; but the issue is this: we are a country of which more than 60_percent of the surface is forested, even though it did not seem to be. Therefore, if we have the extinction more or less well controlled and well developed, let us focus our efforts on what would be prevention and see if among all of us we are able to make good that saying that fires will go out in winter. And there would be, in this sense, an active prevention, a prevention that goes beyond the cleanness of security fringes to the desire of urbanisation, to the desire of reelers, generating points..., hydrants, forest bases – that too –, but what would be the integral management of the mass or the forest masses, integrating and developing all its values, that they contain, such as biodiversity, kinetic values, playful values, sports, and energy. And this is where we focus the question, asking them which measures of rational exploitation of biomass is currently driving the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.27.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Serret, Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.28.0	Thank you, President. Mr. MP, we certainly agree fully with the government with this reflection that you have made, we have said many times: the best measure of fire prevention and sustainability, right? , to promote the sustainability of the country is forest management. And in this sense the government's bet is also decided and long ago: we have a general forest policy plan; from this General Forest Policy Plan, we have the Forest Policy Plan 2014-2020, which has as its main objective to manage 50_percent of all this forest area we have, eh? We have a 60_percent of the country that is forest; from here, half of us have to be able to manage it and move from the 10,000 hectares that are currently being managed to 25,000. And in this sense we're deploying a lot of lines and actions that we're looking so much at the owners – because many of these hectares are private property – as well as public forests, huh? We don't have to forget the public forests. And here's so much to take advantage of forest stem and biomass... and also what's part of extensive rowing, we need to promote the bioeconomy in the country and allocate the maximum amount of help to it. And in this sense, we are..., for ganny, by 2016, we had planned and would aim to maintain the 15.5_millions that we intended for forest fire prevention activities, plus all the aid that at PDR level we can devote to promoting these forestry activities and, finally, expand it with a new line that are groupings and cooperatives that help us manage the forest mass in rural areas, through PDR aids, and also boost what is the unique forest network, because, as we have said, we need to make forest management compatible with the maintenance of values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.30.0	Thank you, President. Thank you for the answer, Counselor. Indeed, we know that there are different types of biomass profit, of more aggressive or intensive systems with forest masses and that they are destined for large cycles of biomass... For example, an absurdity that we do is to cut the skirt and board it in "boats to Italy", because then we return it in the form of a fur, right? ; I mean it's quite – quite – irrational. And we also know that there are endogenous benefit systems, that are more respectful, and destined for shorter and more territorialized cycles, and these series with which from the CUP - Constituent Creed we would agree much more. And here, therefore, a derivative of this first question that I asked you, which would be what endogenous biomass benefit measures is developing or driving the current government, and if we could put some examples, or that is as pilot experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.31.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.32.0	Certainly, there are, as I said, many lines, huh? And in this sense, with a view to, as you say, doing it in the most sustainable way, we are very clear that one of the things we have to do is to boost the industrial part of the forestry sector, too, huh? , and make the most of the added value we can derive from this forest management. Here we have three great axes. On the one hand, we are looking to promote what is added value, not just in biomass, as is already being done, to take advantage of energy, also in the industry of the skirt for construction. We are driving the Catforest warranty brand, which wants to be a guarantee of sustainability, proximity and quality of this skirt, so it identifies itself more on the market. And above all we are also helping lines in the sector, with €5 million to finance investments in the transformation and marketing of these forest products. That is to say, we have to make a country bet to put in value and identify for everyone who is our skirt and put it in value also in our internal and external market. "Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the company Nylstar, by Blanes]] [[310-00111/11]] Five questions to the government, about the company Nylstar, from Blanes. The question is posed by Mr Rafel Bruguera, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.34.0	Thank you, President. Greetings to the mayor of Blanes, the secretary general of the UGT of the Gironine regions and the members of the business committee of Nylstar who accompany us, and to express to them the solidarity and support of my parliamentary group in their struggle and the demonstration that will take place this late in Blanes. The company Nylstar, the ancient and emblematic SAFA, by Blanes, symbol of the Catalan industry, the most exporting company in the whole of the State for many years and in front of the Catalan trade unionism, has presented the fourth ERO ; this time, to accommodate 155 workers and leave the staff with only 61. The Secretary General of Work and Social Affairs has qualified Dragon Khan's ERO and that Nylstar cannot be a further reversal, pending a successful real estate operation. Indeed, it seems that we are ahead of a speculative operation that only seeks to lock the factory with incontestable targets. Beyond the concertation table, the management of the SOC and the demand for a viable and feasible business project, I ask you, Madam Councillor, what actions the government is thinking hard at the end of the day to defend the interests of Nylstar workers and to look for sufficient investments to guarantee the future of the factory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.36.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Greetings to the whole committee, to the mayor of Blanes and companies, who we have been to date, of union. To say that, as you said, it is true, Nylstar is an important company, it is a company that has followed the model produced to Blanes, industrial and historical model, I would say, of Blanes, with the effort of all his workers. At these times, since the government we are convinced that economic recovery goes through industrialisation, and that is why we are working. And we're working in the air and here, because we're accompanying the business committee and the families, 219 families; so we're working proactively. We lead and are involved with courage and courage, because what we want is to defend the interests of the workers/workers and their families. But at the same time we are looking for reversal, we are looking for the possibility of a financial reversal to reverse the situation and ensure that the future of the industrialization is possible, together with the Department of Economy and the Department of Enterprise; therefore, working cooperatively with the entire government to save the maximum possible places of the Nylstar enterprise and why this project shoots forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mr. Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.38.0	Yeah. You will advise, you know perfectly well that the Praedium group, the current owner of Nylstar, is repeating what it has already done in its moment with the factory Montefibre: to make the company unviable and not competitive, to present success ERO and, finally, to make the lock inevitable. In fact, Nylstar's current address, far from being an expert in the textile industry, is in the dismantling and shutdown of businesses. And that, Constable Bassa, we can't afford. And we can't afford it, basically, because the Nylstar company is perfectly viable. The products he made four days ago have been highly competitive. Installations and machinery are not obsolete; they have high production capacity and are modern and competitive. And finally, because the company has been characterized by its ability to search, to adapt, to adapt to our markets and to innovate our products. With all certainty, if we count on the development of the National Pact for Industry and do not have the span of the Labour Reform Damocles that a significant part of the government's representatives that you form part of will vote for, we would have much more useful tools to fight, defend Nylstar and other companies. We ask him, he will advise, to stand still; to stand still and to lead, to have decidedly involved himself and to put himself to the head with courage and courage. If it does, it will count on our support, we will do it for one; if not, we will ask them for responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.39.0	Thank you, Congressman. There's the word Bassa Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.40.0	Thank you, Congressman. I'm sure he'll be at our side to defend the interests of all the workers, but you've said some things that aren't real. For example, you know that you have an ERO, that you have an ERO for economic reasons, that from 2011 to 2015 accumulates losses that exceed 25_million euros. We can tell you that there is also a technical cause; the cogeneration plant has lost the client that is Solvay, so it needs to make a change, it needs to renew the energy system. And, besides, the investor group you were talking about, Praedium, knows very well that the direction, Mr. Kortazar has left the group. Therefore, it also needs a direct turn. Despite this, we are..., it is true that, if it were not for the two labor reforms, things would be different, we would have the labor authority to make changes; at this time we cannot hold it. Therefore, what we can do is follow the ERO – there is the media. But I remind him that there are two of them, labor reforms, and one of them was also his party. Yesterday there was mediation, the company committed itself to presenting the plan of viability and negotiations, we would count..., we would be at the back because that's what it is, and at all times we would be at the side of the workers, as it could not be otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about public media insults to democratic political formations]] [[310-00118/11]] Sisena asks the government, about the insults of public communication media to democratic political formations. The question is posed by Mrs. Andrea Levy, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.42.0	Madam Councilwoman, fate has given you a second chance in this House; a second chance because it has not been clear to us whether or not you condemn political groups represented in this Parliament being called fascists on public television in Catalonia. You've spent more time talking about other chains than what you're responsible for. So I ask you, do you condemn him or don't you condemn him?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.44.0	Thank you, President. I'll answer it with meridian clarity, as I've done before; maybe you shouldn't have listened to me. I said that, respect the fact that you are, of all punctual – of all punctual – it is unfortunate and it is reprehensible, of all things. In the same way that the fact that independent Catalan politicians have seen themselves insulted in an ignominious way on state public television..., I hope you also some day say it's all reprehensible, because until now we've never felt them on our side. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.45.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[The applause continues.]] I got the word "Mrs. Levy."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.46.0	On time, counselor, you must say it because you still see TV3 less than I do. But I would do one thing, counselor, I can assure you..., because you are as Catalan as I am, and, believe me, if you insult a Catalan, they are insulting you, this whole chamber, all Catalans, of which, of course, I also feel part. But it is that, listening to you yesterday in this same chamber, in the interpellation of a comrade of the Socialist Party, you made distinctions; distinctions between what you think are Catalan parties and what you think are not Catalan parties, and which, by the way, represent two thirds of Catalans. So, are you going to give instructions? Are you going to give some kind of coverage, in a way, to public television in Catalonia so that it is not called, is it not called fascists to political parties that are just as Catalan as the one you represent? Because, I know, you said yesterday – and you have repeated again today in this camera – that TV3 and you must ensure that it is as plural as possible – as plural as possible. But it's just that the problem isn't just the news. Look, I'm from a generation – and many of this camera, too – that we've grown up with Club Super3; but not only this, I grew up with Poblenou, with Gent from the barri, with programs like Love at first sight, Force Barça, Malalts from TV. I grew up, made my music culture with great programs, as was the Sputnik. The problem is not plurality, counselor; the problem is that we've been robbed of TV3. You have stolen TV3 from all those who would like to have a television that is not used as a political weapon of your government, because you do what you do is turn TV3 into one of your ideological tools for your political project. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.47.0	Thank you, Mrs. Levy. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.48.0	Thank you, Madam President. The word "instructions" has escaped you; surely the instructions give them to you, or their minister Fernández Diaz gives them. [[Greetings and soundings.]] Yes, ma'am – yes, ma'am. Don't forget, don't forget the maximum of democratic journalism, that facts are sacred and opinions are free, and we respect opinions whenever they are respected with everyone, obviously. Maybe that, and I'm celebrating it, we'd agree. You referred to yesterday's sitting, where, certainly, in response to an inquiry by Mr. David Pérez, you and the deputies of Ciutadans enthusiastically applaud when Mr. Pérez said: "TV3 did not broadcast the debate to four; the debate to four did not broadcast. No, no; TV3 did not relay the debate to four, but it relayed the debate to six on June 26th and the debate to seven on the occasion of the previous elections– like you specialize in repeating elections–, the debate to seven on September 20th, because we do not exclude any opinion; all parties deserve, all political representatives from all parties deserve to be able to express their opinion and debate it. When she retransmitted Spanish public television and other channels, she debated four, excloia – excloia –, honourable Member, the voice of the Catalan parties competing in the state elections. TV3 and Catalunya Radio broadcast debate to six and debate to seven. And, honourable Member, as I said before, and if there is any time left, I would remind you: the plurality and diversity of the Catalan corporation are guaranteed; we have a regulatory body that produces monthly reports that are public; parliamentary control that is carried out in this chamber. Certainly, parliamentary control can be carried out many months ago at the level of the State, because you do not want it and because other parliamentary groups allow it. The later this, the CEO's barometer of opinion, known the past diverdres, is like the preference of each time more Catalans, in relation to and even later on, TV3, 3/24, as the preferred channel for information. It must be plural, it must be professional, it must be credible. This is our compromise, honourable Member, and here I assure you that we will not give up. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.49.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asks the Government about the third support plan for the third social sector]] [[310-00115/11]] Seven questions to the Government on the third support package for the third social sector. The question is posed by Mr Josep Maria Forné, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.50.0	Thank you, President. Madam Counselor, for some years now we have begun to celebrate the 40th anniversary and, in some cases, the 50th of many entities in the third sector. They were born in a context in which they supplicate the State's lack of response to the social needs and as a way of making a lot of fuss in our citizenry since we have had to supplant the lack of state with the own and solidary initiative. As the document states that the third support plan for the third social sector is withdrawn, Catalonia has an extensive, plural and active social fabric, made up of entities and organisations that are based on the free citizen initiative and channel the solidarity and social participation of Catalans and Catalans towards people, families or communities affected by a situation or need of social character. The group of entities that were set up has been associated with federations and other large organizations to form part of the Third Social Sector Table of Catalonia. As a result of the establishment of the table, the first step was the 2003 White Paper. Subsequently, the Generalitat has also committed itself to the two support plans; the first, from 2008 to 2010, and the second, from 2012 to 2015. There is a history, therefore, that supports the compromise with each entity and with its superior organizations, such as the federations and the table of the sector. It's fair to be at the side of all of them. But it is not only a question of justice, but also of effectiveness. It may be recalled that, according to the 2016 barometer of the third social sector, the sector counted the year 2015 with 559,000 socies, 563 donors, 348,000 volunteers and 85,000 workers, and it was attended to 1,550,000 people. In addition, the table attaches thirty-five federations and other major organizations. The good work they're doing demands that the Administration get involved with all of them. Taking all these elements into account, the question is to know with what purpose, before yesterday, the 25th of July, was signed the third support plan of the third social sector in Catalonia between the Government of the Generality and the Table of the Third Sector to the Palau of the Generality?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.51.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.52.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. My honourable Member, I would say that the main purpose is to raise this third social sector that you know so well for your previous responsibilities to the Food Bank, these more than three-thousand non-profit social entities, their professionals and volunteers, and why this gathering makes us all stronger, like the country, like society, and more effective, as you said. It was a compromise from President Puigdemont in his investment speech and it's one of the axes of our governance plan. Let's get a very, very quick appreciation of the previous support plan – we come from the far, and this has been, as you very well said, the third –; a_second plan that has allowed us to improve the grant step to concert for serving people with disabilities; we have also been able to extend the guarantee fund of the social economy; increase the number of social clauses in the public contract; boost the Catalan law of volunteering or simplify the procedures of solicit and grant processing. In this third support plan, very quickly, which are the axes, which are the objectives for which you asked? The improvement of transparency and information of entities; the promotion of their participation in social policies, with particular reference to the field of justice, housing, labour integration of the most vulnerable persons, culture; the strengthening of their economic stability, and in this sense we will not fail to fight for the 0.7_percent of the IRPF for social purposes before the repeated incompliments of the Constitutional Court on the part of the Government of the State; also to improve this model of success of social public collaboration for supporting the process of inter-nationalization of social entities with a very important role in Action, and social recognition, value, visibility of the task of entities. We are convinced that this is a great social capital and a strategic alliance, of all strategic, to provide us with a society that progresses, a fairer society and a more cohesive society. Therefore, we will continue to work on rapeseed rape from the Government of the Generality with the combination of local and supralocal administrations, and this third social sector as powerful as we can feel so proud of.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.53.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the signature of the new contracts social services programme]] [[310-00116/11]] Let me ask you a question about the signature of the new social service contracts. The question is posed by Mr Bernat Solé, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.54.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, the Law 12/2007, of social services, established a new framework for coordination, cooperation and collaboration with local authorities to allow for the provision and management of social services that meet criteria of co-responsibility, transparency, territorial equity and optimisation of services addressed to people with social needs. The new legislative framework was implemented through the programme contracts, a management tool that replaced the previous system based on the call for grants and which, from its approval, allowed for a more balanced relationship between the parts, characterized by a co-responsibility of the Government of the Generality and of the local governments in the management, performance and implementation of the social services to the territory. The programme contract, moreover, promotes a close relationship between the provision of social services and the citizenry, placing the local institution at the centre of the effective provision of services to the territory– and, like the mayor, to give faith – at the same time as it encompasses both basic social services as services specialized in matters of childhood, families, large people, persons with disabilities or other social needs. The social complexity and growing needs of the most vulnerable groups in our society require a public and integral model every time that, for one band, is an effective tool for diagnosis and prevention, incorporating policies into the spheres of equality, accessibility, associationism, volunteering, and that, for another, a guarantee is obtained that any person in our country with social needs can be accommodated for this same system. Given the need to continue implementing a social model based on co-responsibility, transparency, territorial equity, administrative simplification and optimisation of services addressed to people with social needs, and before the situation of presuppositional extension in which we find ourselves at these times, which are the support tools that from their advice will be implemented for the own contract program? What do you suppose they're financiers for? And what new developments will they bring in? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.55.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.56.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. As you said, the program contract allows for direct planning of the provision of social services, but also those programs of social welfare, and also policies of equality addressed to the most vulnerable collectivities. This time there are one hundred and nine programs that we sign from the territory, so that all the municipalities of more than twenty thousand inhabitants and those not, from the supramunicipal ones; so that all people can have a head, that all people can be offered. And, despite the presuppositional prorogation, we have taken a great step forward in quantity and quality because this government has a social sensitivities and believes that this is important. We have a 2016 endowment of 197_million euros, which represents 10_million more than 2015, but as the programs contracts are for four years, I can tell you that the four years will be 826_millions, which represents practically 100_million more than there were four years before. And say a quantitative step because a quarter of this money goes to the basic welfare team, the EBAs, very important during these years of crisis, who have had to make an effort. That not only the amount of money is this fourth part, but that what we are doing is gradually increasing the rates of professionals; so I can tell you that at the end of these four years the basic teams will have 185 professionals more in the territory to meet all the social needs of the people of this country. In addition, the half goes for SAD money, home care service, which, therefore, also incorporates the degree of care of dependency. And this share of money goes in four new lines, which you said very well: accessibility, associationism, LGBTI policies – so, the new laws in Parliament, as well as the new social needs, it was important that there were – and, above all, also a better service of socio-educational intervention, in which we would incorporate 92 more professionals into the EAIA. We want to move from the care system for children and children at risk to a system that is progressive, to a system that is preventive. Therefore, a great deal of standing at the expense of people and all the social needs that exist in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.57.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the report of the Official College of Industrial Engineers of Catalonia regarding the need for the electrical branch of Riudarenes]] [[310-00117/11]] Ninth question to the Government, on the report of the Official College of Industrial Engineers of Catalonia regarding the need for the electrical branch of Riudarenes. The question is posed by Ms. Natàlia Figueras, from the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.58.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, also aggravate the presence of the mayor of Santa Coloma de Farners and members of the platform « No to the MAT. The past divendres attended the regional council, together, therefore, with the mayors of Santa Coloma and Riudarenes to give to the territory to know the conclusions of the project of the Official Industrial College of Catalonia regarding the electrical power supply of the substation of Riudarenes, the known high voltage line, the MAT; a project called for in its moment for the council of mayors of the region, and also for a motion presented the past legislature in the Parliament. The high voltage line, in its step for the municipalities of the region, has been object of debate and participation. Institutions such as the Assembly of Santa Coloma de Farners, Riudarenes, the same district council, the Diputació de Girona, together with the involvement of plataforms of "No to the MAT, entities and related persons have been claiming and working valiantly to be escorted, carrying out a consultation and proposing alternatives in this project presented by Red Eléctrica Española ; a project considered unsuitable to the territory, are aware of the need to expand the current line, but, at the same time, are also aware that this project does not take into account the environment and environment in which we live. In this case, they have given compliments to the demand of the territory, we want to thank you, counselor, your visit and sensitivity to the concerns that this line of high tension produces, coming to you and your department to listen to us. The institutions that until today we have been ruling and we have been in front of many of these gatherings and councils we are aware of the energy needs, but we are demanding and working because we want a state with adequate infrastructures, we want a state of the 21st century, connected with Europe, but we also want a state that is respectful and sensitive to the territory, sustainable and that takes into account and respects a very important value, as is the same environment and our environment, because energy and its infrastructures must help us and enable us to live better, to have a greater welfare. That's right, if we don't take care of this environment, I'm sure we won't get it. For all the talk, counselor, I want to ask you what is the Government's appreciation of the report of the College of Engineers on the need for the electrical branch of Riudarenes that we are so concerned about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.59.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.60.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. The honourable Member, indeed, the current project of the Spanish Electric Network of the electric branch of Riudarenes has generated and has generated a great deal of discomfort in the territory. In fact, it is a branch of very high tension that departs from a tower, from the tower 17 of the MAT, which goes from Vic-Bescanó, border with the French State, and which crosses the entire term of Santa Coloma de Farners to feed a substation that is located in Riudarenes. Before this fact, and also coinciding with the approval, the last legislature, of a motion in which a report was requested for an external entity and various alternatives to the proposal made by the Spanish Electrical Network, the one made by the Government was immediately paralyzed the processing of the consignment of the line, and commissioned this report to the Official College of Industrial Engineers of Catalonia; a report that we have recently held, that we have released to the chamber and that we are going to present you to the County Council of the Jungle and to the mayors of Santa Coloma de Farners and Riudarenes. And what does this report say? The report for the College of Engineers states the need to build a substation in Riudarenes to guarantee the electrical service to the gironine communities. Now, the option selected for Electric Red is to build this branch of the MAT, of Riudarenes, not to find it justified, from a technical point of view, and up to put it even in danger, according to the engineers, the interconnection with France because at certain times it would reduce to half the power and capacity of the remaining interconnection. And you don't just say that, but you offer five additional alternatives to Electric Network, because it's planted and replanted. Therefore, in view of these facts, the Government will maintain the suspension of the authorization procedure pending the Spanish Electric Network to conduct the relevant studies and make the relevant assessments. Infrastructures may be necessary, energy infrastructure may be even more necessary, but they must be made in agreement with the territory and in agreement with the Administration that legitimately governs the country, in this case, in agreement with the Government of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.61.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the President of the Generality about policies to prevent discrimination and segregation]] [[317-00075/11]] Desena question, to the President of the Generality, formulated for the Lord Benet Salellas, of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.62.0	Yeah, good morning, everybody. First of all, we want to express – from the outset, already, because I have made myself clear – our strong rebuff of the fanaticism and fascism that you underlie in the events of the past days at different points in Europe. But, said that, we also think that we must begin to reflect on whether there is a line of funds that we can draw from the revolts of the suburbs, in 2005, and that arrive until the storms in Paris, to Charlie Hebdo, to the airport of Brussels or, yesterday, to the church of Normandy. We do not know, in any way, to what extent, whether all these attacks which are bulging with a supposed franchise, the Daesh, or in admiration for the culture of violence, as in the case of Munic, to the cries of ‘I am German, are fed, in some way, by injustice, by social exclusion and by the marginality of the barrels from which its authors come. In Catalonia there are villages and barrels where there is a situation that begins to assemble in the suburbs. And in Catalonia there are young people, too, who, like the neighborhoods of the outskirts of Mig Europe, also overlap different plans of discrimination, because they are poor, because they have fewer opportunities only for the barriers from which they come, for the country of origin of their peers or their opinions, for their race, for their name... What policies are we doing in Catalonia against all this, to fight against discrimination, to prevent the rage of injustice and the uncontrolledness of marginality? Because when we talk about this phenomenon we always talk about security measures, police measures and military measures, but we see that these measures do not serve practical purposes. When we talk about the children of the periphery we want to hear about educational policies and policies of social cohesion. We know from the report of the Synod of Greuges that Catalan educational policy is subscribing to school segregation. We've reported it. Yesterday a company of Podemos also denounced him in this Ple. This school segregation can put us at risk from other European countries that have not fought segregation, either at schools or outside. In Catalonia, we think, we are not developing serious policies, communities and social cohesion. In the past Ple asked him about the feminist agenda of this government. Our question, now, is for this government's anti-discrimination and anti-racist agenda: are we working to fight segregation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.63.0	Thank you, Mr. Salellas. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.64.0	Thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning, Madam President. Mr. Salellas, it's not that we get to work, it's that we're working; we've been working for some time. We are working in a coordinated way, not just as the Generalitat, but with the local world's fabric, uniquely the gatherings, which make a priceless effort to guarantee this country. You describe it: in part, it is true that there are some municipalities in Catalonia where a high population of immigrant origin is concentrated – it is true – and that there is a tension of housing type. All this is true, but it is also true that, despite this, in Catalonia, fortunately, we have a living model in which when we detect a focus or a problem, the answer is coral, I would say "politically, cross-cutting also at the level of institutions, to donate and to ensure that this country is and will continue to be a country of coexistence, where expressions of xenophobia, racism, discrimination for any matter will be condemned and attacked, and will be corrected. In fact, this is the result of the country that we have been building among all, where there is a school that is the main tool of integration and social cohesion. And that's today, so to continue, and so, sometimes, we have to plant ourselves before some measures that claim to attack an essential element in social cohesion such as linguistic immersion, because it also works in favour of social cohesion. We have a model of salvation that does not generate this discrimination, but that guarantees attention, and before yesterday in the presentation of the Pla de Salut it became clear to me that it is our commitment in this sense. We have a model of social services that precisely has the priorities of how to guarantee a cohabitational country, which is what people need, regardless of origin, are cared for. We have a model of housing policy that is giving its results, that is serving the most vulnerable communities, as they are also doing, I insist, with the enormous collaboration of the local fabric, all those collections that have food emergencies and that we attend, already at school, already at home. Therefore, there is a social agenda, there is an agenda against xenophobia, there is an agenda against racism that is effective. Now, can you lower the guard? No, no, Does that guarantee we'll never have a conflict? Sadly, they can't guarantee it, of course they can't. That is why every day, despite the fact that some of the essential foundations, such as helping immigrants from the Spanish State, have been practically reduced to zero, this government will never lower its guard.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.65.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the vote in the plenary of the conclusions of the Committee on the Study of the Constituent Procedure]] [[317-00076/11]] Eleventh question to the President of the Generalitat on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.66.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I will ask you a question because we are very interested in knowing your opinion to the Members and to an important part of the Catalan society. The advance that is not to say that it is not his responsibility, because surely it will not be his responsibility, but it does matter, and much so, what the President of the Generality of Catalonia thinks. Mr President, how do you appreciate the fact that the President of the Parliament of Catalonia handed over to the plenary the vote of conclusions on the commission of the break-up procedure to Catalonia, expressly prohibited by the Constitutional Court? Do you agree, Mr President, that the Catalonian Parliament runs the risk of challenging the state of law by voting illegal conclusions?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.67.0	Thank you very much, Mr Albiol. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.68.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Albiol, good morning. I agree that you put the good before the wound. That's... I agree. We'll see what Parliament decides. But I ask you: do you agree, or not, that a democratically elected parliament will take decisions and be able to take them with a parliamentary debate will be, absolutely free, democratic and in accordance with the mandate of the citizens who have represented it..., who have sent it..., to Parliament? Do you agree or not? I do agree that Parliament has completed the task of getting the citizens to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.69.0	Thank you very much, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.70.0	Mr President, I think this is the first time that the President of the Generality asks the head of an opposition party. I, with great pleasure, will answer it, and I hope at some point to be President of the Generality to give you an answer to what you ask me. [[Greetings.]] That said, Mr President, I obviously see that from the People's Party of Catalonia we agree that it is in accordance with the decisions taken by a parliament, and this Parliament of Catalonia. But, obviously, these resolutions and decisions must be adjusted to the law, they must be adjusted to the state of law. Because, if not, we convert this Parliament, we convert the Catalan society, into a totalitarian republic. And then I'm sure from the People's Party... he's not our model. Yours, it seems to be. Not ours. To ours, above all political will there is the rule of law and respect for legality. And said this, Mr President, I would like to insist, with this attitude, that you most likely see yourself with so much joy and satisfaction, put at risk the state of law in Catalonia, put at risk the self-government in Catalonia. For eight months that makes you president of the Generality, the only one that has ever been there, the only one that has preferred the length of all this time, is to provoke, divide, confront, instead of rule. In eight months only one law has been presented in this Parliament. One of you. In change, they have presented four or five resolutions, or proposals, rupturists and separatists. And that's what they do, in a very clear way, Mr. President, I'll tell you, because the process is disinflationing. The process every day has less support for the road. And you, to which he is dedicated is to be a social agitator to follow the flame well on and try to maintain a relationship that every day has less support from Catalan society. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.71.0	Thank you, Congressman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.72.0	Thank you very much. Mr Albiol, you say you want to be President of the Generality. It's not a worry. If I lose the question of trust, those parties that voted that not to the confidence of the president can propose to you as president of the generality, which perhaps will do better. [[Greetings.]] That said, some questions that are bluntly... not just inaccurate, but false. I don't wear eight months. He's in contact with Mr. Rajoy, who has eight months of running president. [[Some applause.]] I barely wear seven, and in these seven_months let 'em remember that I've been under 15 parliamentary control sessions, and in the eight_months, Mr. Rajoy, zero. Therefore, the democratic quality and description of which is the sense of respect for the citizen is perfectly described. [[Greetings.]] Second question. It's not true that we've done a... we've proposed a lot of law projects, specifically eleven. Eleven Bills of Law. Not one. Eleven. Obviously, the processing of a bill, as you know, calls for a certain period of parliamentary processing, but it is the Parliament that decides what rate prints the eleven proposals of the law that this presiding government has promoted. But it's that, plus – plus – we have pre-project memories, seven pre-projects of the law that are already approved by the government or pending approval by the government. So, where do you see parliamentary inaction? I go back to the principle: I think it's confusing, I think you're referring to the unborn legislature of the Spanish Government and not the one you should control, which is that of the Government of Catalonia. Because if you did, I'd see that the data you give is definitely fake. And, finally, you just said, if I didn't get it wrong or pointed it out wrong, that we are promoting a minority of the whole republic. Do you think that the 2_million voters of Junts for the Yes and the CUP are totalitarian? Do you think so? Do you think so? No, I ask because, quite recently, we have been asked whether the opinion of an anonymous or particular person was the opinion of the Government, and whether we and the Government considered that the person who unfairly disqualified a political formation could confuse 'as well as the opinion of the Government. I ask you: do you believe that the voters of Juntes per el Si and the CUP are totalitarian? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.73.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the focus of social policies on the question of trust]] [[317-00078/11]] Dotzena questions, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.74.0	Thank you, President. Most honorable, therefore, it seems that parliamentary life is a little under the shadow of the preparation of the motion of trust, and it seems that the debate of the motion of trust will, above all, be disconnected. But I would like to ask you a question about an element, a reality, that reminds us of some studies, and research, and work, recent on the social situation in Catalonia: the index of atur, the 30_percent of minors at risk of poverty, that we follow to the Cua d'Europe in matters of atur, long-term, school drop-out... The question is very simple. It is: if you already meditate on how to confiscate your trust, what place and what focus will be on social policies?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.75.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.76.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, good morning. It's normal that I prepare the question of trust. He didn't move, he trusted. The motion is for censorship, not trust. In this case, I am the one who is submitting to Parliament, and therefore I will make a proposal to try to gain his confidence too, in that, of course, and in coherence with the investment speech, the social priorities will continue to be part of the royal thread of the government's performance that I have the honour to preside over.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.77.0	Thank you very much, President. There's a word from Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.78.0	Yeah. No, the question was coming down from a few recent events that have taken us away. While we are here in debates about disconnection and challenges, we have seen their political formation in Madrid comforting the head of the Congress of Deputies' Bureau the People's Party, in a gesture that seems to go further than a negotiation to have appropriate parliamentary groups. We ask ourselves if it is a sign of connivance to discuss future agreements in the field of economic and social policies. The precedent of the many agreements signed and the votes on labour reform, financial and economic policies are worrying. To us, of disconnection, we would like that in the motion..., or in the question of trust, effectively, if left, or is raised, a disconnection of the government with certain benevolent elements that you have enough retribution to tax to obtain resources to make social policies. We are convinced that there has been no democratic progress in Catalonia without social cohesion and without a decisive approach to the situation of inequality that has been established, and that it has a lot to see with the policies approved in Madrid in conjunction with the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.79.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.80.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Rabell, from Madrid, many news reports are coming. You also gave up a parliamentary group after you said you wanted to have it. Also know the result of the elections to Catalonia communicated from Madrid. Therefore, many news stories come from Madrid. And in any case, if you want to talk about Spanish politics, well, with great pleasure I will, but I don't think that's the reason for the control session to the President of the Generality, with all sincerity. If you think that's what this is, then we'll have a reason to talk about it, because you'll have a lot to talk about, if there's a legislature, whether you agree or not, to unravel what everyone understands to be unravelling, that's the government of the Spanish State. It's about disconnections, estaments... I'll be clear: the taxes that are cancelled by the Constitutional Court that this government has posed, precisely, to stations that would form part and that would fit with the description that it has made..., is it to be done or is not to be done? Does it have to be done? Yeah? Or should we try to do what the Vice-President Councillor is trying to do, that all these resources, which were, and which are, suspected, for, precisely, having economic resources to serve the most disadvantaged groups, can be reasonably obtained through other channels? But to do that, ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh! Do you agree, or not, that the best way to be able to disconnect from these powerful groups is just to have assumptions that include fiscal policies that make those who can make the resources we need pay? But I see... you do it with your head, but you voted against the assumptions. Oh, my God! I mean, all two things now can't be! [[Applauds]] - No, no, no, So, listen, we're still consistent. If you want to go in this direction, you will find arguments about this government to go there. Now, if you look at Madrid, as you did in your description, obviously we won't find ourselves there. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.81.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the confrontation of the institutions of the Generality with the Constitutional Court]] [[317-00077/11]] Thirteen questions to the President of the Generality on the political situation formulated by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.82.0	Thank you, Madam President. Many honourable President, as the spokesman of his Government has already announced, during this plenary session his parliamentary group has decided to vote against the conclusions of the Commission of Study on the Constituent Procedure, which would thus result in a parliamentary resolution in radical contradiction with the content of the recent warning of the Constitutional Court. My question is: do you consider it appropriate to promote a direct confrontation between the institutions of the Generality and the Constitutional Court?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.83.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.84.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, good morning. Who decides to vote or not is the Government, and the spokesman was not expressed in the words you say, but this Parliament. And if you think you have to decide, a majority of the chamber, which will be accompanied, insists on it, accompanied, by a large majority of Members, will decide whether or not to accept the conclusions of this study committee. And I..., like deputies of the majority who give support to this..., will act in coherence with this decision.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.85.0	Thank you very much, President. There's a word from Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.86.0	President, I don't know if you've returned me. But, in fact, he's taken up his time. What I wanted to take advantage of is to tell him my position of respect so that I can be clear before the chamber: the demand for independence is legitimate, but nothing enables a majority of Parliament to stand out of the law, because the institutions are part of the community of citizenship, and the political majority has the right to put at risk institutions that are all Catalans. You know our challenge to any unilateral or illegal nature initiative. We believe that these types of initiatives are highly harmful to our self-government and promote a dangerous division between Catalans: some, willing to accept the breach of legality, and others, advocates of the legitimacy of our current institutions. We wanted to be the same Catalans who decided that a majority of two-thirds were needed to reform the Statute. It would seem, therefore, from then on, that it is easier to repeal the Statute than to reform it. Because it is possible, it seems, that a majority less than two thirds can change this current Parliament for an assembly constitute. We do not understand how it is possible to say that from a certain moment the division of powers disappears, and the decisions of Parliament and of this assembly are no longer to subdue its head of control, suspension or challenge on the part of other powers, justice or court. No one's over the law in a state of law. Mr President, the possible adoption of these conclusions does not have any concrete effect on the practice that does not follow the confrontation with the Constitutional Court. Do you think it's worth it? So that the Catalan institutions face the consequences of a fractious confrontation? Didn't you buy yourself before the chamber to never put Catalan institutions out of the law? We're not done here, are we? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.87.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.88.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Iceta, you serve some expressions I would say that, as at the very least in the process, completely impropie or inadequate. We'll see, what's the end of the city's decision... [[Widow's remorse.]] What the citizens decide, who they are, and I hope that here we agree, the true masters of a country. Are they or are they not, the citizens? They are. For me, yes. Maybe not for you, I don't know. But we'll see, the moment the citizens are being shouted at the various democratic validations with which this process has to culminate, because it can't be in any other way than with the citizens' vote, which is its decision. I ask – it is more, I think that we can say it with a lot of emphasis and very much of demand – is that where the citizens democratically, freely, peacefully decide whether they are respected and that the political representatives that these citizens have sent us here have sent us the work that they have entrusted to us, and that we do not marry the loss, and that we do not seek ambiguity or excuses for who you are going through, years of work, so that we do not have to complete what the citizens have charged us with. That it's not easy? I admit it: it's not easy. Now, it's legitimate, and you said it, it's legitimate. We're not out of the law. This Parliament makes laws, this Parliament is perfectly legitimized to make laws. This Parliament, it is true, requires a majority of two thirds to approve the Statute, but you have obvious one thing: there are no two thirds in the Constitutional because they are charged; a few votes from an discredited court, with people who had finished the mandate and people who were even politically compromised, they were enough because, at what time this Parliament had done with two thirds, you are witnesses to what it cost, approved for the people of Catalonia, if charged. So, it's not true that they took two thirds to load the statue; sad enough they did enough. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.89.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the vote in the plenary of the conclusions of the Committee on the Study of the Constituent Procedure]] [[317-00074/11]] Fourteen questions, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mrs Inés Arrimadas, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.90.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, you have a fourth opportunity to stop hiding in Parliament, in the Bureau or in your parliamentary group and to answer questions from the opposition groups as President of all Catalans. And please, I ask you to speak clearly. How do you feel that the independence committee's conclusions can be voted on in this Parliament after the Constitutional Court's warning? I also wanted to ask you: have you read the conclusions? What do you think? Do you share them? Will you vote for them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.91.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.92.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Mrs. Arrimadas. Fixi's, huh? , that if we were to decontextualize your question and one day, many years from now, someone has read this sentence, I would say: "Someone in Parliament is asking, scandalized, as it is, if it looks good to someone that a parliament approves of when a perfectly constituted parliamentary committee has decided? Oh, my God, what a scandal! [[Rialles.]] This is a Martian, I'm sorry. It is to say: that a parliament can approve – it can approve – conclusions of a committee of study... – now I have dropped the lapis [[relays]] –, some conclusions of a study committee is not democratic abnormality, it is perfectly normal. And obviously I have read them and obviously, if this Parliament is right to put them to the vote, I will vote for them with great pleasure. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.93.0	Thank you very much, President. I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.94.0	Thank you, Madam President. Do you know what I think they will say in many years? "How could the President of the Generalitat say that independence could not be discussed if they did not stop talking all day about independence for years in Parliament, if it is the only government action? But who can it come to mind that independence cannot be discussed if you do not do anything else, if you do not talk about anything else, if you do not have another plan? Do you know what I think will be asked in a few years' time to listen to these parliamentary sessions? " How can there be politicians in the 21st century who are created above justice? What do they think they can choose the courts that judge them? But how could this be? [[Greetings.]] I'm sure this is going to be a bad dream, that when many years pass people will be shocked that a president of the Generalitat thought he was above the laws and courts of justice. And I asked you what the conclusions seem like to you, and I asked you what it feels like to vote, because you no longer have excuses, you can't hide, you can't promise independence and then be so brave to hide behind the Bureau of Parliament. I've never met a few disobedients with less courage than you to face. [[Greetings.]] It's never existed in life. And I'm telling you, the most worrying thing about everything is that, if you share those conclusions, you're giving up being the president of all Catalans, because these conclusions leave the social majority of Catalans out, these conclusions say that in the 21st century politicians can choose their courts, and that's a real barbarity. You are betting, if you approve those conclusions, that Catalonia will leave the European Union..., as you do recognize when you go abroad. Do you know what you are saying with those conclusions? That my parents, who live in Andalusia, will become foreigners when they come to Catalonia. And we're not gonna let that happen. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] And when..., and what happens to me happens to millions of Catalans, who know what they know? , that those who steal are not their family members from Andalusia, Galicia, or Extremadura, but the corrupt politicians we have also had in Catalonia and also, by the way, in their party. Have courage to tell the Catalans that this has been a failure; have courage that there are alternatives. We... I don't know if you and the PP and the PSOE will fool you with Mr. Homs by making a good face and saying you're going to behave well for a parliamentary group to give you. They do not deceive us; we are brave. And fortunately, in many years, in Catalonia there will be a political alternative that has very clear principles. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.95.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.96.0	Good morning, Madam President. Home, say this week..., say that this government only has an interest in independence, that's where you repeat the control session re-control session, just the week in which, for example, we approved the third plan for the third sector; in which I presented the health plan, which is a five-year plan, as long as I ask for a long-term visit; in which this government has to face the mobility crisis of our citizens... Certainly, if your mother visits here – with a lot of taste there can come many years, certainly –, what can be found is that trains don't just work if we continue to be part of the Spanish State [[applause]] , because the chains here have a different maintenance from the chains on the other side of the Spanish State. That's what he's gonna find, and that's what you see when people talk to him about why we need an independent state. So, look, for things as trivial but as important as ensuring the mobility of people in this country. Look, the extent to which citizens will be found in this part of Europe many years ago when they read the references of the hemerotecs or the diaries of sessions in this period of this part of Europe is what they gave before in the reply to Mr Albiol, that in seven months this government has appeared fifteen times and two full specifications, and to the Spanish State zero times; that in this government they are taking decisions with full transparency and with full explanation, even though they are not shared, but in the case of the Spanish State there is not yet..., not only government, but still as a minister someone who would, indeed, have to cover us up for a clear attempt to confuse the powers of barring and persuasiveness in the way that they understand and manipulate the truth. That's what people from here to a few years. [[applause]] You'll find scandals.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.97.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the planning and timing of the question of trust]] [[317-00079/11]] Fifteenth question to the President of the Generality on the latest political developments. The question is posed by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.98.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Very honorable president, I think that the contents of this week's plenary session connects a lot of things, don't they? And I think it links what has been and will be a constant of this legislature: for one band, the determination of our parliamentary group to make possible and assume with all consequences the democratic mandate of 27 September, and, for the other, the continuing threat of all the stages of the State, which seems to have no limits, until it brings it to an absolutely ridiculous level. As the determination to do is to practice it more than not preach it, I think we have given enough samples to do it. And that's why we get to this House where we're going to discuss one of the three trunk laws that we're going to compromise on, from those that depend on "disconnection, concretely social protection." We arrive at this plenary, too, therefore, with the very well done work of the Commission for the Study of the Process Constituent, with very clear and very obvious conclusions. And we arrive at this plenary, so, with the other two laws very well packed and, moreover, with some structures of state – and that according to the government – very well oriented. But we also arrive at this plenary under threat, under the usual threats and under the usual warnings, arriving at very ridiculous levels: if you tell the deputy that is what we can think and what we can't think. How can I ask a parliament that I don't talk about an issue that interests more than two million citizens, which is the illusion, which is the ambition of two million citizens? We have all the right of the world to study and propose what citizens want. And that's what we've done and that's what we're going to do. Now, despite all these threats, we at this time, and in the balance of these six months, we are where we proposed to be. And we want to put it in value, not to look at our honey, but to put it in value and face the times that come. And now it's up to us to look forward and how we face challenges and adversities. Let's hope the adversities come more from outside and we don't find them here. And surely the most important challenge that we have in our own months is to overcome the question of trust that you, the president, raised; the confidence of this parliamentary group, you and the government know that they have it all, but we think it is appropriate to ask you about it, because we have to devote our energies to what is really appropriate. And as a lot of people are on the ground of speculation, we don't want to spend time and hours and energy, and you'll comment on literature if it's done one way or another. That's why we, president, want to ask you how you planned to raise the question of trust and with what calendar you predicted it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.99.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Turull. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.100.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Turull, the question of trust, the motivators that made me present it to the Romans intact. And so, obviously, I don't just keep it, but I think it's perfectly justified by a concept that has been used in this control session, which we may agree on in the definition, in the layout, but not with the sense: for a question of political courage. There is a very Hispanic concept of courage that has more to do with testosterone and declamation than with the democratic core, which is that which is capable, serenely, when it has a democratic problem, which is when a government loses its parliamentary majority in a law as important as assumptions, to face it, to look at it face to face, to hear that this problem has to be resolved democratically. And it has to be solved with the height and transcendence of the problem. And, therefore, in this case, European parliamentarianism has defined formulas, which this Parliament's Rules of Procedure also have, as is the question of trust, to ask openly, on the margins of any other speculation, to Parliament whether it counts, or not, the Government, with the confidence it needs to bring forward its work. Thank you for your entry, therefore, to know that I count on the confidence of the Group of Junts for the Yes, that this allows us to prepare the holidays and the question of trust with a point more tranquility. In any case, the question of trust will prove whether Parliament will ratify or withdraw the necessary support for this government to complete its work and its task, which is to bring this country to the gates of independence. And to do so, obviously, it needs some tools – laws, assumptions, parliamentary stabilization – that when this is in question it needs to know whether it counts or not, because then there are only two options: either the consolidation and culmination of this process with these conditions, or, well, obviously, ask the citizen who most and what project they want for the future of this country. Therefore, the question is disconnected from other interests that do not follow these. And I think we'd better keep him here. So, because there are no speculations about what is the original meaning of the question of trust, I ratify what some of you already know, and it is that I submitted it on September 28th, which I believe is the close date for having a debate to be, disconnected from other considerations, and to be able to obtain from Parliament the confidence that I hope will help to complete the process that the citizens have entrusted to us on September 27th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.101.0	Thank you, President. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia to support the continuity of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum to Western Sahara]] [[401-00014/11]] Then, as he informed the parliamentary groups, we will read the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia to support the continuity of the Mission of the United Nations for the Referendum to Western Sahara, which has been signed for all parliamentary groups. I pray to the fourth secretary, Mrs Ramona Barrufet, who began reading this statement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.102.0	« Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia to support the continuity of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum to Western Sahara. The Security Council of the United Nations Organization approved Resolution 2285 on the Continuity of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum to Western Sahara, with two votes in favour, including that of the Spanish State. The resolution expressly raises the "urgent need" that the United Nations Mission for the Referendum to Western Sahara, Minorso, recovers the "full operation" and asks the Secretary General, Ban Ki-moon, who in the term of ninety days informs the Council of the situation. The report, which was submitted yesterday, 26 July, to the UN Security Council meeting, should include measures to facilitate the full functioning of the Minurso. This July, some of the members of the Minurso are returning to Al-Aaiun, which the Moroccan government expelled to March, in concrete terms twenty-five of the seventy-three expelled. Other international organisations and bodies have expressed concern about this situation and have asked Parliament to promote an institutional declaration in favour of the Minurso returning to Western Sahara as soon as possible to complete the pau maintenance tasks and to vet for the observance of human rights in the occupied territories and camps of Tindouf, south-west of Algeria. For this reason, the Parliament of Catalonia expresses its support for the continuity of the Minors, because it returns to function with full capacity as soon as possible and can complete the tasks of the operation of paul and humanities in the area, old for the observance of human rights. Palau del Parlament, July 27, 2016. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.103.0	Mr. Turull, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.104.0	For a point of order, President. [[Pause.]] [[Changes to the agenda]] We would like, in accordance with Article 81.3, to change the order of the day, including a new point which is immediately substantial and which concretely follows the debate and ratification of the report and the conclusions of the process constitute, which are prepared and which are fully published.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.105.0	Are there any other groups that are asking for this petition? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.106.0	Yeah, we're adding to the petition, too. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.107.0	Are they aware, the groups that have made this petition, from the interlocutory of July 19th, that resolve the incident of execution and that it has been notified to this chamber for the Constitutional Court? [[Jordi Turull and Black ask to speak.]] Mr. Turull?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.108.0	President, we are aware of the democratic mandate we have on 27 September. [[Widow's remorse.]] And we would also like to see it – or I will already read it – read Article 57 of the Statute of Autonomy, which is an organic law, which I imagine that if no one is over the law, others are not over the law, and say exactly: "Members of Parliament are inviolable for the votes and opinions that they give in the running exercise. Therefore, we, according to this article, know that what we do can be done perfectly. [[Strong applause and perlongats. Anna Gabriel and Sabaté ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.109.0	Mrs. Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.110.0	Yeah. We are not only aware of the interlocutory; we are also aware of the 9-N declaration that our Members voted in this Parliament and we are above all aware that we, for independence, do not have for it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.111.0	Even though they're aware of it, they're repeating themselves in the petition? [[Pause.]] So, according to Rule 71 of this Rules, the whole is going to rise. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. [[strong remorse of the eyes]] – please – according to Rule 81.3 of the Rules of Procedure, of the alteration of the order of the day. [[Several Members are asking to speak.]] Now I'll give them all the word... [[Widow's remorse.]] All right. Sir... [[Widow's remorse.]] They'll talk; I'll give them the request... please, we'll give them the request... Mr. García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.112.0	Madam President, I remind you that, according to the interlocutory of the Constitutional Court, it is the responsibility of the Bureau of Parliament – therefore, of you, in the end, as President of the Parliament of Catalonia – to ensure that in this Parliament, and specifically in this plenary, no decision is made that goes against the rule of law. If you deal with the proposal that you have tabled both Junts pel Yes and the CUP and that you seem to be willing to deal with, you seem to be willing to assume, from the People's Party we believe it is an attack on the rule of law. Moreover, as a previous question, Madam President, we would like to know the official position of the Bureau of Parliament on this issue, the official position of the Bureau of Parliament, because we believe – because we believe – that it is not worth putting at risk the rule of law and the Catalan institutions for a purely electoral issue and with the will to break Catalan society. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.113.0	Mr. Coscubila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.114.0	In any case, I'm speaking on the subject of funds... but it seemed to me that the Chamber's readers were handing him some document, which seems to be a legal report. We'd be happy to have you, before you subtly consider us, if you'd like to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.115.0	Mrs. Rimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.116.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, these conclusions are a clear development of the 9-N resolution, suspended. There is an interlocutory of the Constitutional Court that prevents this from being taken to plenary. To vote on this would therefore be to pass justice through the Arc de Triomphe on the part of Members and, above all, the Bureau of Parliament. You, as Bureau, are trying to derive your responsibility from Members, but, Madam President, you have a responsibility that you will not be able to derive. Being President of the Parliament means not only to collect 120,000 euros a year, but also to have certain privileges; being President of the Parliament means to assume its responsibilities. You have in your hand to prevent this vote from taking place, you have in your hand to enforce the interlocutory of the Constitutional Court. Finally, I say to you that we are asking that the final part of this dialogue be read so that it remains in the record that we cannot participate in this and that you, as Bureau, will not be able to derive your responsibility from Parliament's plenary session. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.117.0	Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.118.0	President, we understand that the situation that has arisen is highly irregular. Indeed, the Members of the Parliament of Catalonia are inviolable for the opinions and votes that they cast in the Parliament of Catalonia, but we understand that the interlocutory to which you yourself referred, asking the two promoters of the initiative if they were aware..., we think it is very clear. And, in this sense, and in accordance with Rule 86.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, we would argue that the resolutive part of the interlocutory is legal; that it is not the whole law; that it is also legal Article 92(4) of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court; that it is legal, if indeed there is a legal report, the content of this legal report which has been provided to it, and, already proposed to cite articles of the Statute of Independence of Catalonia, that it is also legal Article 1 of the Statute of Independence of Catalonia. [[Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.119.0	Mr. Coscubala, you've already spoken...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.120.0	President, I have not spoken, I have asked you to get something that you do not at the moment read. Now, if I may, I will speak on behalf of the Grup de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.121.0	I don't know if he's added that I'm asking everyone to come in, and I'll answer in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.122.0	All right, thank you very much. Well, Catalonia Yes, we may have already expressed our position that this subject came to the House of Commons, we did it to the Board of Spokesmen, and today I want to remember these reasons. We promoted the Procedural Commission with a clear will of consensus and building bridges between political forces that had a different vision of 27 September, but we agreed on the need for this process. Unfortunately, these conclusions, instead of building bridges, have dynamized them. We pushed this study committee to find broad support for this process, and the conclusions were contrary. Bringing the conclusions to this plenary exactly what it does is the opposite: dynamite any possibility of agreeing and situating a closed block policy that benefits you don't know who. That is why, for political reasons, and without undermining in absolute terms what the interlocutory of the Constitutional Court entails, but for political reasons, for these reasons, because we believe that you are dynamotizing the bridges that can be established between us, we mean at their own time that you are not. As we do not want to contribute to further degradation of this chamber, because the ways of doing things are very important in politics, we, as we did on April 7th, will not participate in this vote; we will light up, "press the button of presence and we will not participate in it. But we will make it clear that we are against them bringing these conclusions to the plenary because, at the same time as progressing in a process they constitute, at the same time advancing in the recognition of the rights that Catalonia has as a people, what you do is each time to make them back, each time to increase the social support that they have. And that's a mistake; it's an option to serve Mr Puigdemont and his majority, but against the people of Catalonia. And we won't be part of it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.123.0	Some members... [[Jordi Turull and Black ask to speak.]] Mr. Turull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.124.0	President, because, as it has been demanded that the petition that we have made be withdrawn, it is only to reiterate that we keep on the petition and have all the right, like a parliamentary group, to be placed on this agenda. And let's reiterate again, we are here because the citizens of Catalonia put us there and we owe them to the ambitions of the people of Catalonia. There is no need for a more acute vocation than the powers of the State; we..., our vocation is to serve the citizens of Catalonia. And, Mr. Coscubiela, the attempt to find the excuse, to give another different explanation from the others, the intention is good, but it doesn't stick – not glue, not glue. [[Greetings.]] Listen, look, Mr. Coscubila... [[Funnel veils]] Mr. Coscubila, in the end...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.125.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.126.0	... yes, in the end, you are proposing that we make a revolt with the permission of the relevant authority. A lot of punch up, a lot of samarreta, a lot of banner, but, at the time of truth, shit, because they're standing next to those they don't want to talk about. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.127.0	Some members of the Bureau have asked me to speak. He will, in the first place, do the Lord Mirror; he will intervene from below.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.128.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Catalonian Parliament, I know that it is not normal for a member of the Bureau to take the floor in a debate of these characteristics, but it is also not normal what is happening right now. Also, apart from being the Vice-President..., or one of the Vice-Presidents of this Parliament, I am a Member, and I would like to express my opinion as well as a member of the Bureau which is specifically concerned by that resolution to which we are referring. As you all know, that resolution informs all the members of the Bureau of our duty to prevent or paralyse any initiative that involves circumventing the mandate contained in that resolution, any initiative such as that which these groups legitimately propose from their political perspective. But it is our duty to prevent or paralyse such initiatives. I do not want to go into the political background, although as a Member of my parliamentary group my position is obvious, but as a Vice-President of Parliament, which I am also at this time – exceptional, I believe – I must fulfil to the maximum of my responsibilities and possibilities my institutional duty, and I also ask the President and the other members of the Bureau to do so. The Bureau took the decision..., or the President took the decision, with the unanimous agreement of the Bureau, not to include this item in the agenda of this plenary session. And when a ban is intended to be circumvented using a rule intended for another purpose, this is called 'law fraud'. It is a fraud of law in the Rules of this Chamber that I believe is being done today. I believe that Article 81.3 of the Rules of Procedure is intended to be used to consummate this fraud of law. It is my opinion as a Member, as a member of the Bureau and as a Vice-President. Tomorrow a code of conduct will be adopted in this Parliament, unanimously by all groups, promoted by the President – as I say, unanimously and with the agreement of all groups – in which Article 10.2 literally states that "parliamentarians cannot promote actions taken in the exercise of their right to implicate a right or a law fraud. It would be a very bad precedent, honourable Members, Madam President, if the day before the adoption of the code of conduct were to be used to breach one of its basic principles; it would be a very bad precedent. I therefore ask all of you..., and I especially ask the President to reflect on the decision she has in her hands, and to do so for the good of Catalonia, of all her institutions, and specifically for the good of the most important institution, which is this Parliament. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.129.0	Mr. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.130.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, at its plenary session on 20 July 2016, the Bureau of Parliament decided to take note of the conclusions of the study committee and not to give a specific procedure. And this was done after listening to the Spokesman's Board, which turned against it. If someone disagreed with this, what they should have done is ask for a review of the Bureau. Why was this decision made against the majority decision of the Board of Spokesmen? Certainly because there were reasons, from the Bureau and from the President of Parliament, to make this decision not to give parliamentary processing. Moreover, this is in line with Rule 37 of the Rules, which clearly states that they are the function of the Bureau – in the section "to qualify, in accordance with the Rules, the writings and parliamentary documents and to declare the admission or non-admission to be due. Therefore, the Bureau has completed its function, which is to declare the non-admission to deal, let us say, with these conclusions of this study committee. I am one of those who think that if this decision is made, we have to get back together again, in a moment: we are now a little behind, we are meeting the Bureau and deciding the contrary. It wouldn't go away at all. In fact, Article 81 says that Parliament's Plenary may change the order of the day, but also in Article 82 only a condition – a condition – is that the documentation is sent to all Members of Parliament, which has not been done. That is to say, we will put to debate and vote an issue that has not been allocated to Members of Parliament. And also the very Rules of Parliament say that, well, this can be done a little..., in this case there can be a small exception if the Bureau decides that it can be done. So, it's another reason because at this point he's back to meeting the Bureau of Parliament and say if this can be done or can't be done without documentation..., or not-documentation. It wouldn't go away at all. I'm aware that we're not before a strictly regulatory debate, I'm aware, I know that, huh? But I do have to say that more than just regular questions, there is another question, that there is an interlocutor who asks all of us to prevent or paralyze this situation. Under my opinion and my criteria – I may be wrong – an interlocutory of the Constitutional Court in this case is over the Rules of this Parliament; that is what I think, I am convinced of that. If there's anyone else who thinks differently, we do; but I'm pretty sure that's it. And, therefore, they call for a meeting of the Bureau of Parliament to spare and clarify this issue before Parliament's electorates. Indeed, we are not before a strictly regulatory discussion, a strictly statutory discussion... Certainly, the article, also, 2.4 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia: "The powers of the Generality are exercised according to what they establish the Statute and the Constitution – "the Statute and the Constitution", article 2.4 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. My obligation, I insist, is, as a member of the Bureau, also to veto the compliment of the Rules, the Statute and the Laws. And it is in this sense that, Madam President, I ask you for a quick meeting of the Bureau of Parliament to spare these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.131.0	Mr. Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.132.0	Believe it or not, I know it's very hard to make this intervention, but I see that I've been working on the decisions that have been taken in the past few weeks. When in a subject of cabdal importance, as we are now dealing with, sectarianism in its advanced management, democratic methods thunder, suffer. And today the democratic methods are truncating. The main democratic method we have, I don't know if it's in the Rules of this chamber, but it's the dialog, talking things. As a society and as a parliament, when there's no dialogue and it's pulled by the right, it's all trumped up. And at this point some of you are pulling for the right, on the side of a very important part, I don't know whether or not you would be a majority of Catalan society. Therefore, yes, we are at an exceptional time, you remain aware of it. And at an exceptional time, if we don't agree on the methods, we don't agree on anything. He asked you to rethink it. And they ask you one more thing: doubt your convictions, like I doubt my own; you will do a favor to Catalan society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.133.0	I remind you, I remind you that the House will rise; Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure says so. [[remorse of the voice]] The whole is going to rise. The request that has been made by two parliamentary groups does not emanate, nor is it the result of a table agreement. In the plenary, the only function, the only mission of the Bureau is to order the debate. The plenary will be raised, and therefore this is not the responsibility of the Bureau or the Presidency; it is the responsibility of the plenary, because it will be raised. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] And here it is, we are scrupulously completing the Rules; because, according to Rule 81.3, if two groups demand an alteration of the order of the day, it is voted. Therefore, we are completing the Rules. Mr. Coscubiela asked me to get him, let's say... the one who passed me, the text that was passed to me by the speakers. The readers have me... this text says you're making the warning I've already made, if they know the interview. Therefore, this is the content, just say it; it goes to the presidency and says it. It was also asked that we get the interview. The interview is a well-known envelope for everyone. He's gone to the Bureau, he's gone to parliamentary groups, he's public and he notices his contents. So what we're going to do here is scrupulously complete the Rules. They've all completed, absolutely all the proceedings, according to what you say... because the report of the committee has been published, it's published in the plenary button. The Bureau was aware of this, and even the Board of Spokespersons was asked to join the agenda of the plenary. Therefore, all the requests have been fulfilled because these two groups can make this request. We are going to vote, because it has been completed, the Rules have been scrupulously completed. [[Inés Arrimadas García asks to speak.]] Mrs. Rimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.134.0	I'm asking you, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.135.0	No, tomorrow...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.136.0	Question of order – yes, excuse me – I ask for the floor, please, on a point of order. [[Pause.]] Thank you. As we have previously requested several parliamentary groups in this Chamber, we again ask that, on the basis of an article of the Rules of Procedure, which is Rule 86, the two paragraphs – the two paragraphs – of the interlocutory of the Constitutional Court can be read. We have the right to ask what, and I sincerely believe, President, you should give us the right to read two paragraphs of an interlocutory that affects us all and that, I insist, affects all the members of the Bureau, but especially you, when you say that you have the obligation to prevent – prevent – or paralyse any initiative that involves ignoring or circumventing the mandates set out in this interlocutory. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.137.0	I must remind you again that the Ple is going to rise. [[Widow's remorse.]] The House will be raised, not by the Bureau or the Presidency. And this interlocutor, I'm sorry, knows her absolutely everyone. [[See "No.]] She's out at the media, everyone knows her, she's handed over to the Spokesman's Board. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote. [[Greetings and remorse.]] Let us proceed to the vote. [[Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]] Mr. Coscubala, you've spoken a lot, already. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.138.0	President, just for one thing that I believe affects the sovereignty of the Catalonian Parliament: if the House of Commons has brought to the President a note that affects the development of this session, the parliamentarians, the 135, we have the right to know what you say this note, because... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please – please, please... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.139.0	The lletrates...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.140.0	Please... you're saying the interview...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.141.0	No, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.142.0	No, because we already know her. I know her and I know what you're saying, but I don't know what you're saying this note that the legal services in the chamber sent her. Then...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.143.0	The lletrates...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.144.0	You've taken the wheel...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.145.0	No, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.146.0	...and with the idea of violating Spanish law...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.147.0	Don't get hurt. Mr. Coscubila, don't let anything go wrong.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.148.0	... decide to also violate the regulations of the Parliament of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.149.0	No – no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.150.0	You know that the Rules of Procedure allow me to ask you to read – read – a text that is essential for this vote. They ask one thing: don't force things so much – don't force things so much. Ask him to read it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.151.0	I've already told them that the casters warn me that you warn the chamber of what they were going to do, quite simply. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] We'll do the reading. [[Greetings. Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Wait a minute, Mrs. Garcia. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.152.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...all the deputies have the same rights in this chamber...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.153.0	Yes, sir...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.154.0	...Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.155.0	...you're right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.156.0	...because it makes a good point that I'm asking for the word for a question..., two points of order, if I may. [[Pause.]] You have repeatedly said that this Parliament is going to rise. I would like you to read the Rule of Procedure in which you say exactly that this Parliament is going to be raised. Because you don't say that. Nor in Article 71, which you mentioned. The second question of order. Indeed, as various members of the Bureau have said in their speeches, last week the Bureau unanimously agreed not to take any other decision on the conclusions of the Committee on the Independence. In so far as you have adopted a decision, which is submetre 'not included in the agenda to the House of Commons, and therefore this means contradicting a decision of the Bureau of Parliament, and having felt that, at least, three members of the Bureau of Parliament have been opposed to submetering this consideration to vote in the House of Parliament, we would be pleased to have a collegiate position of the Bureau of Parliament in relation to the inclusion in the order of the day of this point, contrary to the same decision of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.157.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Now we're going to read the note that we've been... [[Anna Gabriel and Sabaté ask to speak.]] Mrs. Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.158.0	The truth of the matter is that we cannot help but express our sadness before the fact that it is denounced that some people call it sectarianism or the thundering of democratic methods, and lose the opportunity, in change, to denounce the lack of democracy in the Spanish State. We are very concerned that this comes from the hand of a spokesman of a formation that claims to be left-handed. The lefts have always stood out to defend democratic rights, and not to hide themselves in the limits of false democracy, of imposed legality, inherited from a Franco dictatorship. [[Widow's remorse.]] Second, for us, the readings of the Rules of Procedure, the Statute of Autonomy, the Spanish Constitution or the Constitutional Court are festivity. We want to go further, and we recommend that, beyond these readings, he also read history and read international law. Therefore, no fraud of the law, no abuse of the law, no coup d'état. Do not banish what is a time of state, do not banish what is an abuse of law or a fraud of law; because banishing these things is only a contribution that does not eradicate. And, lastly, we, in the exercise of our right to demand the incorporation of this item into the order of the day, feel ourselves absolutely in the exercise of a democratic right that is ours. Today we are building democracy, and today you have the opportunity to turn the bait to democracy or to make it even richer and fuller. We have a clear understanding of the bandol that we are. Therefore, warnings made, threats girls, no problem: we, as we said before, no independence, without. [[Greetings. Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.159.0	Mr. Pedret. [[Pause.]] Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.160.0	Thank you, President. He asks for the word, let us say, for Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, in relation to the observance of the Rules of Procedure. [[Pause.]] Look, the groups that propose the inclusion of this item on the agenda, actually, have all the right to do it, is indisputable. What is most questionable is that I have a right to get it if we don't just focus on reading the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia, but we have before us that the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia are not part of a thing other than the rest of the country's legal order. It has to be read all folded, it has to be taken into account that the Rules are not an absolutely autonomous thing, that is, let's say, out of the legal order. We must bear in mind that we are registered in this legal order. This is why I asked before I read Article 1 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which I permit me, very modestly– most likely the acquaintance–, reminding the chamber and the same Bureau: « Catalonia as its nationality exercises its self-government constituted in an autonomous community, according to the Constitution and this Statute, which is its basic institutional norm. This cannot be ignored, which means that neither can it be ignored the existence of an interlocutory which is very clear, very expressed, respecting the processing of which today is intended to be processed. Therefore, I consider that we are in contravention of the joint order, and also of the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia, if we proceed to the vote that the President is inviting us to do. We understand that, more than the warnings about who the order is and what the consequences may be of ignoring it are interpreted as a threat or as something undemocratic, the institutions we have today are institutions that have cost us a lot of consensus, which has cost us a lot that there is a vast majority of citizens and citizens who consider them legitimate and representative. And the step that today is able to make has nothing to do with respect to the discussion of foundations on the question of independence, neither has anything to see about the discussion..., about whether this should be able to vote in a referendum or not. You see with a step forward that is called for in these conclusions of the Commission for the Study of the Procedure Constituent that it is done, that it is a step that is skipped directly from the legal order that we have to a new one, in which, certainly, posed to speak of warnings and threats, it is not clear that all the physical and legal persons, and also all the public powers, must be under which this assembly constitutes, eh? Therefore, I understand that with some element of coercion you have to count to guarantee it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.161.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. [[Jordi Turull and Black ask to speak.]] Mr. Turull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.162.0	Yes, President. As we enter a reading space, we too – and Mr. Pedret put it very well – want to read. I'm saying that because with this, a little bit of the law is going on, it seems to me, like with El Quijote, that everyone talks about it, but no one has read it honestly, right? [[Rialles and remorse of the eyes.]] And, therefore, to me that I would like... no, of course, we also want to read, and we want to read the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy, which you ask so much to respect, and that it is an organic law, and that, therefore, some value you must have, this organic law. And I'll read them two articles that, as I suppose the Constitutional Court didn't know we were going to get to this point, they didn't touch them, they didn't load them; among all the ones they charged, they didn't touch them. Article 55.1 of the Statute: "The Parliament represents the people of Catalonia; point 3 says: "The Parliament is inviolable. And Article 57.1 says: "The Members of Parliament are inviolable for the votes and opinions they give in the exercise of their duties. We are exercising our role, we are representing the people of Catalonia and, therefore, we do not admit any threats for the votes and opinions that we issue. Thank you very much. [[Greetings. Several Members are asking to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.163.0	It's hard for me, because this is going to turn into a non-end. [[Widow's remorse.]] All groups had two interventions; two, all. Let's go read what we've been asked to read, and then proceed to the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, they've all had two interventions. [[Widow's remorse. Inés Arrimadas García asks to speak.]] Mrs. Rimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.164.0	Thank you, Madam President. On a point of order. Since you do not want to read the two final paragraphs of the interlocutory of the Constitutional Court and since everyone has taken out their reading books...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.165.0	Mr. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.166.0	...we'll do it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.167.0	...Mr. Arrimadas, they're here and now we'll read them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.168.0	Oh, perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.169.0	Okay? [[Pause.]] The vice president will read the text that has been passed to us by the speakers. [[Josep Enric Millo and Rocher ask to speak.]] Mr. Millo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.170.0	Briefly, President, but remember that there is a petition formulated, very concretely before the contradiction that has manifested between three members of the Bureau and the rest, of which we do not know the opinion, that it is to be known..., I believe that the 135 deputies of this chamber have right to know which is the collegiate position of the Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia. And this we can only know if it is suspicious of the session, the Bureau is meeting and manifesting publicly... because everyone knows who is the elected position, I insist, of the Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] And if they do not think to do so, explain the reason for which they do not think to do so; but they answer the petition that is formulated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.171.0	It's just that I don't say it so loudly, but it seems to me that it's very clear: this is not the first time, this request that they have made to us today is not the second time they've agreed to a table. The Plenary, according to Rule 71.1 of the Rules, the Plenary is the supreme organ, superior to all others, which meets the maximum degree. "It will mean that it is by everyone else's side. So they've petitioned us according to the Rules, and that's what we're voting for. It has absolutely nothing to do with the Bureau..., with this Parliament ; simply, order the debate. So, as I said, we're going to do the reading, and then we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.172.0	Okay. « The Secretary-General in office and the major electorate wish to inform that: 1. The Constitutional Court, by virtue of the interlocutory resolution of 19 July, estimated the incident of execution formulated for the lawyer of the State in relation to the Resolution of Parliament 5/XI, of creation of parliamentary commissions, in the sense that it is not constitutionally admissible that" the parliamentary activity of analysis or study is aimed at giving continuity and support to the objective proclaimed in Resolution 1/XI, the opening of a constituent process in Catalonia, aimed at the creation of the future Catalan constitution and of the independent Catalan state in the form of a republic, which was declared unconstitutional by Judgment 259/2015, so that the Court considers that the activity of the commission created is absolutely unviable if it is not understood to be conditional on the fulfilment of the requirements of the Constitution, and uniquely of the procedures for its reform and, in general, on the frameworks governing political activity". Two. The Court shall give an express warning to the authorities concerned and to their holders, in particular to the Bureau of Parliament and under their responsibility, of their duty to prevent or paralyse any initiative which involves ignoring or circumventing the mandates set out". In these circumstances, we consider – say the Secretary General and the Lletrat Major – "that, before taking a decision on the enlargement of the agenda, that the Parliament has knowledge of the meaning and the implications of the interlocutory saying, bearing in mind that, as the same Constitutional Court also assigns to it, " it is up to the Autonomous Chamber itself to ensure that its action takes place within the framework of the Constitution and that all public authorities are obliged to comply with what the Constitutional Court decides". That's the warning he gave to the president himself.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.173.0	Rule 81.3 of the Rules of Procedure states: "The agenda of the plenary may be altered if the plenary agrees, at the proposal of the president or at the request of two parliamentary groups or of a part of the members of the Parliament, and may also be altered when the compliment of a law is required. If an undertaking is to be included, it must have completed the regulatory procedures which allow it to be included in it, carried with an explicit agreement to the contrary by an absolute majority. Therefore, as a strict compliment to the Rules of this Chamber, let us vote in favour of or against the alteration of the agenda. [[Some applause.]] The vote is started on the amendment of the agenda and to include the conclusions of the process. The vote begins. The amendment to the agenda to include the conclusions of the Constituent Procedure Commission was approved by 72 votes to 53. [[Strong applause.]] Next... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So it's 52 votes in favor, I'm sorry... [[Someone said, "Against.]] Fifty-two votes against, yes. [[Report of the Commission for the Study of the Process Constituent]] [[260-00001/11]] Next, we proceed to the debate and vote on the Report of the Constituent Procedure Study Commission. In accordance with Rule 65.3 of the Rules of Procedure, this committee of study has drawn up the report that has been published in the Butlletí Oficial del Parlament de Catalunya with the number 190. In the first place, to start the debate, has the word Lluís Llach, as chairman of the Commission of the Study of the Constituent Process. [[Xavier García Albiol asks to speak.]] Mr. García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.174.0	Thank you, Madam President. On a point of order, I should like to point out that, as we are going to have a debate which we in the People's Party of Catalonia understand to be completely illegal and with a clear violation of the rule of law, we Members of the People's Party of Catalonia will not vote on this resolution.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.175.0	Thank you, Mr Albiol. Mr. Llach, you can start.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.176.0	Thank you, President. Honourable President, Honourable Councillors, Councillors..., we continue. It is a parliamentary custom that the chairman of a committee of study, in this case of the process constitute, briefly explain the work done by the committee that has presided. I will try to be faithful to this tradition, and I must begin to remember that this commission was set up under a much heavier presidency than my own, Muriel Casals, who is still standing today. [[applause]] among many of the Members a respectful enyorance. [[The applause continues.]] The Constituent Process Study Commission was attended by the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Crida Constituent, that of the People's Party of Catalonia, that of Catalonia Yes it is Pot and that of Junts per el Sí. Without doubt, the greatest value of this commission's activity has been shaped by the comparisons of personality meaning in constitutional knowledge. These were consensual among Junts for the Yes, CUP - Crida Constituent i Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. They will accept to compare the lords Joan Subirats, Ferran Requejo, José Antonio Pérez Tapias, Albert Noguera, Marco Aparicio Wilhelmi, Jordi Matas, Encarna Bodelón and Antoni Abat Ninet. Excuse their appearance Francesc de Carreras, Josep Maria Vallès, Oriol Homs and Mercè Barceló. After the individual exhibitions, the appearance is required in two sessions of a representation of the entity Reinicia Catalunya, and also of the entity Drassanes for the Catalan Republic. A copy of the finalizations and analyses of these comparisons is now in the presentation phase of the proposals for conclusions of the different parliamentary groups. And this is where I have to give the word to Mrs Rovira, who will explain the proposal for conclusions of my parliamentary group, Junts per el Si, and I do so with full awareness of the transcendence of this moment. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.177.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then there's the word Mrs. Marta Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.178.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, by virtue of all these articles which we have been quoting, especially Article 55 of the Statute of Autonomy, which says that Parliament is the representative of the people of Catalonia and that it is inviolable, we will explain, we will go on to explain that in this Committee on the Study of the Process we have had months of appearances and we have finished, in our opinion, with the following conclusions. In the first place, the importance of the process has been made clear to us in itself, as in the procedure, as in the methodology, to determine the final result, which is the constitutional text: if the process is of high democratic quality, the constitutional text will also be; if the process is open and inclusive, the constitutional text will also be. And of the comparative experiences that have been shown and explained to us, it has become clear that there is no single size model for all the constituent processes, but that each case is a world and that each process is unique. That is why, because of the cultural characteristics, because of the economic characteristics, because of the political characteristics of our society, and because of the process of social mobilization that our country has experienced over the last few years, it is clear to us how this process is to be constituted, which is produced in our country: it must be citizen-based, it must be transversal, it must be open, it must be inclusive, it must be participatory and it must be binding, it must have the support and support of the institutions. A process that, as we say, in its methodology, in its process must be consensual, the public will, the transparent will, the shared will, and it must give cabuda, as it could not otherwise be, to the different sensitivities and ideologies. And a process that we especially want to go through with past inertias and incorporate the perspective of genera in a radical, transversal and specific way, is to say, with a dual strategy. Let's identify three clear phases of the process: the current one, which is of civic participation; a second phase, of a legislature constitute with mandate institutions, and a third phase, of popular and direct ratification through reference. Unfortunately, we have not been able to support most of the conclusions that other groups have put forward in this study committee – especially with regard to the conclusions of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot – because we do not share the premise that these conclusions are not necessary, that a process is always to have permission and authority of a constituted power. We believe that the status that we will not reform, we cannot change, have or have to ask permission, and we understand that these conclusions that have been presented to us deny, therefore, that we have legitimacy as a society to start a process constitute. We believe that the permission of power constitutes, the agreement, the endorsement that some still await to urge the process constitute, and the mobilizations already have them and we have made them. The permit, in fact, we have given it to ourselves, we have given it to all of us, it is called a democratic mandate, it is called a democratic contract, it is said to be agreed. We got it from the ballot boxes; certainly, positions according to the constituted power – we got it from the ballot boxes. Or is it that there is not enough to have obtained this democratic and legal legitimacy to start a process that constitutes our country? It seems to us that it is the best way to start it, having democratic approval. And what we don't understand is how some deny, even, that the process is based on popular, citizen-based. Or is it to defend the people who are defending the streets of our country, like, for example, unjust denunciations, to make a popular legislative initiative for housing emergence, to defend the people from the heights of sub-administration in spite of the Constitutional Court, that is not even the process that is being carried out by the removal of constitutional power? It seems to us that we do. We got this permission from the polls after we cursed, certainly, for an agreement with the State, because we cursed from 2012 to hold this agreement with the State. And at the polls, on September 27th, after three years, since 2012, of cursing for this agreement, we got this permit, we got the better of the permits, the legitimate, the democratic and the legal to start this process constitute. That's why we don't understand how some people expect the State to still be giving us away, giving us away, giving us permission; as the State can come to reform. For us this seems to be such an acquittal to these developments: the constituted power, the State, will neither reform nor allow us to initiate a constituent process. That's why people went out to the street and went to the polls and gave themselves permission to start building a new country among all of us, as it couldn't be any other way. That they don't see it, that we don't have another one out? And the truth is that I share the words of Deputy Nuet, when he has taken them before..., and he knows it hard, because we have spoken for hours and hours, and we have shared many appearances and many debates and many speeches, and we share a thread of conclusions that could have been made by this Committee on the Study of the Constituent Process; we share, still, this thread: where you have written in many manifest, and with many support, that they recognize that there is a process that constitutes a citizen's basis not subordinated, unilateral, and so on, you say, to the Catalan Republic. Even some of you say that in order to support it, you would want this process not to be subordinated, as at least, coordinated with that of the State. And against taste there is no rewrote. In this we only disagree in time: we cannot expect the State to initiate its process to start ours. After the repetition of the June 26 elections, it remains clear that we cannot wait for it; it is only possible today, only a process is possible to constitute the State if before the fem in Catalonia. In fact, even though our goal is not well, we know that we are a lever of change to the State. If we start the process constitute, we know that with high probability it will also start a process constitute the State. And what matters to us is what happens now and here, what we have in our hands. We have the opportunity to initiate a process now and here. You know that it is impossible for the Spanish State to do so. Maybe, maybe, maybe, 20 years from now, but now and here, now is where we have this opportunity. We have the opportunity to change between all the energy models that make the citizen pay a scandalous bill; we have the opportunity to make our businesses more competitive with fairer electricity bills; we have the opportunity to help those who suffer from poor energy; we have the opportunity to equip ourselves with sovereignty to make the Mediterranean Corridor and generate occupation; we have the opportunity to build a new economic model in which the most of them, such as banks or nuclear, bring more; we have the opportunity to change society, to modernise our country, to put it between the modern and net countries of Europe, and not to which, as some are systematically. At such an important moment as I hope that we all know how to stand on the side of change, of transformation, of modernity, and not on the side of immobilism and of the past, as the Constitutional Court reminds us with interlocutors that from now on they will all have the same legal basis: that we base ourselves, that we should continue to move forward in a resolution that they have declared unconstitutional to Parliament. Mirin, do you know what's going on? That you went so far as to ensure that we continue to work on the basis not of a concrete resolution, but on the basis of a whole democratic mandate emanating from the ballot boxes of 27 September. I insist, at an important moment, as important as this, I hope that we all know how to put ourselves at the expense of change, of transformation, of modernity. We prefer that the citizens of this country have the future at their hands instead of eternally hoping for a reform that will not come while the citizens see how the status they decide for themselves in an anachronistic, unjust and resuscitate state. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.179.0	We will give every parliamentary group two minutes; we have not put five, but we will give God. Okay? [[Pause.]] Therefore, the first to speak will be Mrs Inés Arrimadas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.180.0	Thank you, Madam President. Today is a sad day for democracy. Today is a sad day for those of us who believe – I don't know if we are very strange – that in the 21st century politicians have, like any citizen, to comply with justice, democratic laws and the legal order. Today is a sad day for those of us who believe that governments, also autonomous governments, such as the Government of the Generalitat, have to think about the real problems of citizens. And today again we are not going to talk about a fantastic proposal from the Government of the Generalitat to fight against unemployment, fight against inequality or fight against corruption, that issue that seems they do not want to name, no, no; today again we come here to see the only thing that the President of the Generalitat can offer us and the only thing that this Government can offer us, that is to continue talking about independence, to continue talking about the separation of Catalonia from the rest of Spain. As if we had not had enough with the years we have been talking about this issue by the government and the president, as if we had not had enough with the millions of euros that are still being spent on televisions that basically talk about this issue, as if we had not had enough with what we have seen these years with the government's priorities, they wanted to push a study committee to continue talking about independence in Parliament. We, as they convened this commission, said one that we believe is much more important and much more interesting, which is the anti-corruption commission. Ah, my friend, but that one to the government hasn't interested you at any time. And, in fact, they gave the presidency to their comrades in the UPC, who have had much more interest, much more participation and much more desire to make the independence commission pull forward than in the anti-corruption commission. I guess that'll be within the pact you have. [[Greetings and remorse.]] Yes, yes; you are the presidents of the corruption commission...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.181.0	Mr. Salellas, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.182.0	...and they've summoned her a lot less than what the independence commission's been called. But there is one little more detail – there is one little more detail – and it is that bringing these conclusions here today is not only that it is far from the reality of Catalans, it is that it flagrantly violates a resolution of the Constitutional Court, one more, which certainly affects the members of the Bureau much more. And this gross parliamentary strategy of not wanting to assume its responsibilities and try to derive them from the plenary has a very short course. And, as we said this morning, we have never seen disobedients who have so little courage to want to hide in the woods of this Bureau to pass responsibility to Members of Parliament. We had never seen politicians who promised to declare independence dare not even face the face today in Parliament's plenary session. We, of course, cannot participate in this because it violates, as is obvious to anyone, a decision of the Constitutional Court. But it violates many more things, because the very conclusions of this committee violate basic principles of democracy. And you just have to read them to know that what you are proposing is a real blow to democracy because it violates the most basic principles. For example, not only do you propose, of course, unilaterally declaring independence and removing Catalonia from Spain and the European Union, no, no; you propose that the laws you pass are not subject to control, suspension or challenge by any other power, court or tribunal. But what kind of undemocratic regime have you been inspired to say this? [[Greetings.]] In what democracy in the world are politicians and the laws that politicians make not subject to control and to the courts? Do you know what separation of powers is? What do you want to convert Catalonia into? What do you want to do with Catalonia? Are these the proposals you have regarding the inequality, unemployment and corruption of Catalans? That you can do whatever you want and that no one controls you? Is that your proposal? This is a real blow, it is an insult to the democratic principles of the separation of powers, of the responsibility of politicians as any other citizen standing before the courts. This means going back in time, going back to the time when the rulers could do anything, they could choose what the laws were, they could choose what their courts were, or whether they wanted to comply with them or not. You want to get Catalonia not only from Spain and Europe but from the 21st century and from the European democracy it represents. You want to make this chamber something undemocratic, and we can't allow it. But you also intend to do what not only against the legal system, not just against the principles of democracy, which is more important, you want to do it against the social majority of Catalans. When you approve today, as usual – because you are going to approve it alone, you alone, the Members of Junts for Yes and the CUP – you only approve these conclusions, which you know that your votes represented more seats in this Parliament but represent fewer people on the street than the four opposition groups that we are not going to support your conclusions, let them know. [[Greetings.]] And it is clear that there are many differences within the opposition, there are absolutely divergent approaches in many things, but today the only ones that are going to approve this will be you, who represent less Catalans than the four opposition parliamentary groups. You propose to disconnect from Spain; but I say to you: "You are disconnecting from Catalonia, from what is Catalonia, from what can be and from the social majority of Catalans. And you're disconnecting from reality. We are in a democratic country, of the European Union, of the twenty-first century, where politicians cannot do what they want; politicians have to do as any autonomous or anyone who goes down the street, which is to comply with the rules and be subject to the courts. Fortunately, we are in the 21st century, in the European Union, and fortunately, citizens have a lot of protections, much more than you want to take away. And I tell you one thing: in Catalonia we are going to talk again about the issues that are important; in Catalonia we are going to have a government that works for people again and not that works to confront people; in Catalonia we are going to have legal certainty and certainty for our companies again; in Catalonia we are going to have a parliament that has credibility. When I was a little girl and I lived in Andalusia, Catalonia and Parliament inspired me to admire and be credible, and what you are doing is that today this Parliament has less credibility than when I was a little girl and I saw it from the other side of Spain. And we are going to get it back, because that is what Catalans deserve, because we have to change many things, because we also do not agree with what the Spanish Government does, we also do not agree with many things that do not work, but, of course, what we are not going to give you is the key to destroying how good it works and to doing what you want. We do have proposals for the challenges we have; that is unemployment, that is inequality, that is corruption, that is legal insecurity, that is cuts in health, in education. And we're only going to do that by regaining credibility and returning to the democratic path. We, unlike you, are not going to hide; we, unlike you, are not going to hide between the walls of this Parliament, because we are going to continue to face, inside and outside these walls, without hiding behind parliamentary groups or behind the privileges of Parliament's tables. We are going to continue to denounce that this is a real shame, that you are doing a lot of damage to Catalonia; you are using the name of Catalonia to hurt Catalans and Catalonia, and that we are not going to allow you to continue to violate basic rights of citizenship in the 21st century. We're reaching very serious levels. What has happened in recent days, with campaigns like that of the ANC, which is part of its ranks today, to sow crosses, as in a cemetery, the squares of Catalonia, that is very serious, that is to pass the most basic lines of democratic respect. You have to reflect; you cannot take Catalonia any further simply because you have no alternatives. We already know that you do not know what to do with Catalonia, you have no answers, with all the competences you have. But we tell them that in Catalonia there is a political alternative, there is a political alternative so that Catalans do not want to be the ones who want to break Spain, but we want to be the ones who want to lead Spain's reforms again. And that, whether you weigh it or not, is much closer than the blow to democracy that you are going to try to carry out today. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.183.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. Mr. Salellas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.184.0	For references to the Chairman of the Anti-Corruption Action Commission, ma'am. [[Pause.]] No, I just want to add that there is a lot of democracy in the mouth, but I think there is nothing more undemocratic than lying and missing the truth in a parliament with regard to parliamentary activity. There's an obvious interest in Citizens to tackle independence with corruption, and that's where the CUP doesn't just square them. But what I would like to make clear to Mrs. Arrimadas, and to the rest of the chamber, is that the session diary, the appearances of the committee, the work that has been done, let's say, from this presidency are public and transparent. And I can make it clear, precisely, that this presidency has always been old enough for the proper functioning of the committee and has been the only one that has been proposing, precisely, what should have been done in this committee; that there has not been any since the run of City. And, therefore, I would ask Mrs. Arrimadas to withdraw the words she said. Thank you very much. [[Inés Arrimadas García asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.185.0	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.186.0	For the allusions of Mr. Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.187.0	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.188.0	Let's say data – data. The Anti-Corruption Commission, chaired by the CUP, has been convened five times, counting the constitution, while the Commission of the Constituent Process, or of independence, has been constituted eight times – given number 1. Secondly, most of the appearances that have taken place in that committee have been on the proposal of the UPC because they have vetoed the appearances of the rest of the parliamentary groups. Thirdly, thirdly, it goes against what Mr Salellas has said. We have registered in the Parliament of Catalonia a proposal for work, a proposal for technical criteria to select the participants, a proposal for this committee to meet every week – every week; not as you are doing: when you want. And that's what you're going to have to take it back. And I ask you, if you want to speak again, to say whether you agree that this committee meets every week and not every month and a half as you have called it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.189.0	Mr Miquel Iceta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.190.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. I take this opportunity to announce that I will not tell anyone; or that we will not have to cut, we would say, the logical sequence of the debate for allusions that this Member has produced. Today Parliament's plenary should not approve, in our opinion, the conclusions of the Study Commission on the Constituent Process. Let us remember, it is a committee of study in which two parliamentary groups have not participated; a third group has only done so to reject its setting up, and a fourth group, at the end of the committee's work, considered that it only served the political setting up of the two parliamentary groups which are ultimately supporting the conclusions. So we're not talking about cross-cutting, no double strategies, no willingness, no understanding, okay? This is what it is: there is an independent majority who has decided to impose their criteria with a study commission and who now wants Parliament's plenary to approve it. So..., "a majority, I say, eh? But that's more than that. Secondly, the Plenary of Parliament should not approve the conclusions of the Study Commission on the Process as they reiterate, confirm and deepen the content of the resolution adopted by the Plenary of Parliament on 9 November last year, which was already annulled by the Constitutional Court. Thirdly, the Parliament's plenary should not approve the conclusions of the Commission of Study on the Process Constituent because, in doing so, it was directly contrary to the interlocutory of the Constitutional Court of 19 July. The only objective of adopting these conclusions is precisely to promote a direct confrontation between the Parliament of Catalonia and the Constitutional Court. The adoption of these conclusions does not have more effects than this. From now on, we're no closer to independence than we're more about a conflict than most of us don't want. And therefore, and I repeat, they will never find us in an institutional confrontation operation like this. You know, we have said it many times, I said it before with a motion from the question to the very honourable President: we do not deny the legitimacy of the independence of Parliament or the majority of this Parliament; the elections of 27 September gave place to a parliamentary majority of the independence forces, which we respect, but they did not follow a democratic mandate for independence. I will not tire of repeating it: those who wanted to give a plebiscite character to those elections are you, and they lost it in the terms that you yourself had raised. And even this has been recognized by several independent spokespersons on various occasions. But I went a little further there. Even though you haven't been like this, most politicians have right to place Catalan institutions, which are all of them, outside the law. Most importantly, you have the right to risk institutions that are all Catalans. And it's quite well known: our group strongly rejects any unilateral or illegal nature initiative. We believe that these types of initiatives are highly harmful to our self-government and promote a dangerous division between Catalans: some, willing to accept the breach of legality, and others, that we defend the legitimacy of our current institutions. And so I say to you, we will not abandon them, we will not stop doing our work and expressing our opinions in this chamber, but we radically reject the conclusions of the study committee. We were the Catalans who decided that a reform of the Statute required the support of two thirds of the Parliament. And the president told me – and he didn't need it right at this point – he said: "They didn't go to some two-thirds of the Parliament to retouch it, modify it, amputate it... Posin' the verb that follows. What happens is that I, the president, used the expression "repealing it". And the resolutions of the committee of study null and void, repeal, flatten, tear down the Parliament of Catalonia. There is a de facto derogation from the Statute or, if they want to do so – I like to be weighted – it is proposed as an objective of the de facto derogation from the Statute. And that's contrary, too, to the Spanish Constitution. But they will understand that I insist more on the fact of the disconnection or the deliberate overcoming without most enabling to disconnect and cancel the Status. For us, there is no right Parliament of Catalonia, can't do it. And I can't do it, much less, without holding the majority that the same Catalans decided it was right to reform the State. How is it possible that for a majority of less than two thirds you decide to change the current Parliament to a constituent assembly, a plenipotentiary assembly that you do not know of or what legality the emperor is? You can tell me – and you're probably right –: "We'll be on our way, we'll be on our way explaining. But today we approve of what we approve; go, approve of what they approve. How can it be said that from a certain moment the division of powers and the decisions of Parliament disappear, this, and of the assembly, constitute, this, which is to come, no longer to submerge its head of control, suspension, challenge by part of other power, justice or court, neither the State, nor the Constitution, nor the Convention on Human Rights, nor the Court of the European Union, because what we are doing here – with forgiveness – goes to Mass? We don't think anyone has the right to stand over the law in a state of right – in a state of right –; there are sometimes some states of right that do so and some states of left that also, but in a state of right that doesn't exist. Now, it seems that, because it is more consumable, independence in the day's disconnection – very well – through some laws that Parliament will approve – at some point, when you decide to make some law – that unilaterally decide not to subject you to any legal restriction or jurisdictional control. They'll tell me what that's like, but we'll definitely see it, because it's just a little... And, in the end, one thing too..., an innovation: a unilateral mechanism of democratic exercise, which is not said to be, no one explains how it is done. Some can sense that behind this there is the RUI. Or they could be some sort of election. I know, because from this... we have some experience in looking for these writings that can satisfy everyone. But up there a moment when things have to be said for his name. And if what the majority of this Parliament really considers is that it has to make a unilateral declaration of independence or a unilateral reference of independence, it would be good to say so. It will be as useful as the approval of these conclusions, that is, it will not take place, but, like at least, we would know what it is that they intend to do. How can it be argued that the results of a civic participation process constitute a binding mandate for assembly members? Where did you see this? I don't want to pose adjectives, nor find examples, neither in the assembly, nor Kerenski, nor Maduro. I don't like it, that's all. What I'm saying is that it's very strange to say that the results of a participatory process are a binding mandate for the members of an assembly. I suppose you think you'll be elected by the people, but don't say it, but anyway, that's a good idea. And, therefore, we repeal the Statute, dissolve the Parliament, create an assembly with full powers, not subject to any legal or jurisdictional limit. Where did they get that from? And really... I won't ask you to read any text, President, we haven't read enough today, but I will be allowed to read part of point 9 of these conclusions, because you say: "The assembly will once convened, elected and constituted, it will have full powers. That's, uh... that's, uh, that's, uh... that's, uh... that's, uh, that's, uh... that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh... that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh... that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, But good. He said: "The decisions of this assembly will be a binding compliment for the rest of public power and for all physical and legal persons. Count! He said: "No decision of the assembly shall be subject to any control, suspension or challenge by any other power, court or tribunal. It's true that the paper can handle everything. Now, they'll recognize that maybe those of us who aren't in the secret of what's behind this have some prevention of giving full powers to someone who doesn't know who will have elected him and who won't have to submit to earthly authority. [[Greetings.]] We're not... now, don't worry, because once we've done all this, then we'll make a reference. [[Rialles.]] Well, so, at some point..., at some point you can say no; well, at the end, we would say, right? [[Rialles.]] But, in our opinion, that's all wrong. And then someone would say to me..., I could say to myself, with all legitimacy: « Home, then, why do you care so much? Home, because maybe even they want to do it, that's what they say. I, therefore, here's the... Now, I would say to them: "This has an effect. One_of_sun, and it is to provoke the confrontation of this Parliament with the Constitutional Court. That's right, ever since the vote was held. Is that what you want? So tell us! - Say 'n-ho! Listen, it's a single line: "This Parliament wants to face the Constitutional Court. We will try to do it in the most hidden way possible, diluting the responsibilities, but we want to disobey without appearing as disobedient. Well, all right. Now, they don't have the right to place this Parliament outside the law. Because this Parliament is not yours, nor the seventy-two, nor the sixty-night, or whatever it is, is the same to me. It's everyone's. And therefore, as it is of all, no one has the right to put it out of the law and to make it the use it seems, nor to put itself over the law, nor to put up the first article of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which says that everything we do takes hold of the Constitution and the Statute, and therefore is not dedicated to putting up them. Therefore, we will neither support them nor give them understanding nor solidarity. President, I'm done here. You said you'd never put Catalan institutions out of the law. We believe that with the approval of these resolutions today they do. It's still opinionable, we'll see. And, Madam President, in conclusion, I would like to say to you that our group has unanimously agreed not to take part in this vote, and so we would like you to appear in the Minutes of the sitting. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.191.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. Thank you. Next, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.192.0	Thank you, Madam President. I want to start by reiterating Catalonia's commitment Yes, it is Pot with the process they constitute. But at the same time, and with the same clarity, I mean that we would not be involved in a "burd manipulation of the legitimate aspirations of the citizenry. Today, what Mr. Iceta was asking is a clear answer. Why? We're not discussing the process. Today the first chapter of the question of trust is staged, and we are presented with the alibi for the CUP to justify its "yes to President Puigdemont". A question of confidence that is already presented as a xec in blanc to continue practicing the old pujolisme of always: fireworks in Catalonia while it is agreed with the PP in Spain, grandiose statements to the Parliament while it is giving support to the PP in the Congress to change that Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, or as I say, it also holds the votes of the People's Party. A white check to continue with the policies of the Catalan right: concerts to schools that secrete by sex, Barcelona World, a taxation to the service of the richest, an expropriating co-payment for people with a situation of dependency while maintaining tax benefits in the taxation of estates and assets. And if the price you have to pay Democratic Convergence of Catalonia to apply these policies and stay in the presidency of the Generality is to make every three_months a declaration of disobedience and every six a promise of disconnection, so they pay it. Because, frankly, it's a very, very cheap price for which you get, Mr Puigdemont. We are ahead of the exhaustion of the 1978 Constitutional Pact, we have said, that it has worsened with the policies of the People's Party and with the immobilism practised by the majority of Spanish parties. It is an exhaustion of the system of political distribution to Spain, of the relationship between Catalonia and Spain. It is also an exhaustion in terms of democracy, socio-economic, environmental, genera, of this constitutional pact. Certainly, some of the concerns that we were going to discuss with the Constituent Procedure Commission and that some have not wanted to discuss. We need, sense of doubt, to break this situation, and we know it's not easy. We're not naive. We know that the correlation of forces is not favorable to us before economic powers that are the ones that have really overthrown our sovereignty. You know that. That's why we insist on adding strength, not creating divisions. Catalonia, Spain and Europe. These reasons were the ones that made it difficult for us, with the will of consensus, to push the Committee on the Study of the Constituent Process, and it remained so until the end. We have made an effort to bridge the gap between Catalan political forces that we have made a different reading of 27-S and to seek coincidences instead of adding discrepancies. And you know that it is true that we have made this effort, an effort of consensus that some have decided to pull along with the sole objective of their survival, of the survival of the process as the strategy of political survival. That's what's happening today. The process has been set up to serve the « yes to the question of confidence of President Puigdemont. This is only the abrupt end of the Commission's work and the presentation of conclusions which deliberately coincide with the process, which are independent, which are out of the good of the Catalan society and of social organizations, and of many that we have apostatized for this process. Don't tell us. He told them two days ago, Jaume López, Reinicia's spokesman, in an article in The Newspaper. If we don't convince them, if they don't listen to us, at least they're listening to what the Reign says. You're making the most of it necessary to move on this path. They have a clear will out of half of Catalan society, and even of those we can share with you some common goals. These conclusions speak of a participatory, cross-cutting, friendly process. But the truth is that it's a process that's already predetermined at its end, independence, and that's more deeply driving in its conception. It is only necessary to read what these conclusions say. Two parliamentary groups tell the rest of Catalonia's political and social forces what they have to decide, how they have to decide and at what stage they have to decide. And they say, "And whoever we decide doesn't control it, and you're all going to do it. The truth is that it's quite – quite – worrying. This has nothing to do with taking over the citizenry, which is ultimately the same concept of power as it is. That's just the old-fashioned driving. Independence, to be clear, is as legitimate an option as anyone else. Certainly, for God's choices: so legitimate, but no more than the federal option or the confederal option. What is not legitimate, what is not ethical, is to tell the citizenry that this can be absolved by unilaterality. That's right, no matter what, based on resolutions and motions that are never complete, based on the courage of the motions, I insist, that they never complete. In the conclusions that you present to us, the right to decide is amortized, and it is assumed that a negotiated process is not possible. And we have clearly recognized that it is very complicated, and every time more, from the point of view of the majority of Parliament in Madrid. Certainly, this is what you give the support for controlling the Congress Bureau of Deputies. [[Some applause.]] But do they really want us to believe that if an agreement, a process of these covenants, is difficult, a unilateral process of disconnection is snooping and making blisters? Listen, Mr. Puigdemont: if it's so easy, why hasn't it done it yet? Can you explain to me why it does not complete the November 9 resolution, which has been kept permanently by your partners? They can explain to us why every three months they approve grandiose statements that they never apply. The whole legislature, short but intense, that approve some things and do all the opposite. Together for the Yes and the UPC vote on November 9 unilateral disconnection and disobedience to the Spanish State. Two months later, the Speaker of Parliament asked the King to be heard because Philip VI appointed President Puigdemont by decree. Good disobedience. One of the first things that Vice President Junqueras does, I hope I explain it to him when I return to his school, only to be named is to return to the bank the tax collected for bank deposits, which has been cancelled by the Constitutional Court. And you're wondering what we want to do? Well, at least don't be such a Pharisee, Mr Puigdemont. Because you say, "We'll get the company tax back. Now, when we complain, we'll go back to the bench. No, listen: this..., disobedience, no; this is clever. The Catalan Government continues to file appeals before the Constitutional Court, more than the Spanish Government..., to the Catalan institutions. The same Constitutional Court you say they don't recognize him and have committed themselves to disobeying him. Then why do they bring in resources, if they don't want to... Comply? Truth is, it's smart, everything. Exceptional days, many. Exceptionally sluggish, like that of April 7, another day of this natural, in which Junts for the Sí and the CUP, to the institutions of the CUP, because you see that you do not complete, they make us approve one..., they make approve..., you vote another motion that reiterates the resolution of November 9 of unilateral disobedience, and at the end of a few weeks the Vice President Junqueras is presented with assumptions that were merely lacking in the politics of Mr Montoro, because he presents them clearly as assumptions of submission to the People's Party and to their austerity policies. And he explains that, saying: "And I can't do anything about it. These assumptions submitted to the People's Party and their policies don't tell us, huh? I said the CUP. And that was the reason they voted against it. Who are they kidding? Who do you want to fool? Is it maybe they want to trick us all? Is it really possible to disconnect unilaterally with the only force to approve every three_months a resolution, a motion, of disobedience and disconnection? Look, if anything has become clear from all the members of the committee, it has been that all the processes in three hundred years that have been analyzed, all, have been fruit or of the pact or of the insurrection. But this from the Catalan way, from the state close to the motions, only exists in the imagination of the theology of disconnection. And, of course, in question of theology it is impossible to argue, because faith, as everyone knows, is impossible to debate. Does anyone really think that one night we're going to sleep with Spanish law and we're going to take it with Catalan law, which you've explained to us with the three laws of disconnection? Who do you want to fool? We watch a new chapter of a spectacular political scam that you want to expand indefinitely just to stay in power. He lost, « in power, in the Government. And I need to get out of this blocking situation. That is why our conclusions were trying to sum up, they were trying to generate consensus. And you've made it clear. From this point of view, I say it again, there is a departure from the conclusions that are particularly worrying. My friend Miquel Iceta has already said that. They propose to build a country with a state of democratic exception from its beginning, in which laws that come into being will not be submissive to any type of democratic control, with an absolutist conception of power, in anticipation of the French Revolution and the Illustration. I don't know what's more worrying: whether the political infantilism that this paragraph has or the deeply anti-democratic conception that they transmit. Let me finish telling you something. I want you to be clear about these three things that I'm going to say to you as a summary of our settlement, of Catalonia Yes, it's Pot. If it is a matter of adding forces in favour of a process that will cause a discontinuity and a break with an unsustainable situation, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, as always, will be at the front. If what it is about is to call citizenship to increase the intensity of mobilizations and to direct them to the economic powers, which are the ones who have stolen our sovereignty, it does them worse, and here it implied a proposal, President Puigdemont, if what it is about is this, we, as always, the first. Because there are many good mouths, but at the time of truth I've seen them lie under the stones many times. [[Widow's remorse.]] I wear three generations, and in three generations I've seen many valiant to store under the stones, making Captain Aranya. If what it's all about is giving an alibi and a blank cheque to President Puigdemont, I'm not counting on us. Vote no. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.193.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.194.0	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.195.0	Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.196.0	On a point of order. Since you have allowed this debate and vote to take place, and having listened to the interventions of the Junts pel Si Group, one of the promoters of this committee, we regret to say that we are obliged to leave Parliament when the vote takes place, because it is the only way to make it clear that we cannot participate in a vote that absolutely violates the interlocutory...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.197.0	But, Mrs. Arrimadas, now we don't vote, yet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.198.0	... of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.199.0	Now we don't vote, yet. Next, the words of Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.200.0	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, a debate is taking place which should not be held in this Chamber, in the Chamber. Therefore, from the People's Party we are not going to participate in this farce, we are not going to participate in this irregularity by entering into the debate on an issue that, as I say, should not be raised at this time. But they are going to allow me to make a couple of points that we consider from the People's Party to be important. The first one, today there is neither a coup d'état nor a coup against I don't know who. What is happening today is a coup against the Constitutional Court, which is the body that is dedicated to ensuring that no one in this country jumps the rules, no one jumps the law and no one jumps the freedom. Because, in the end, freedom is a consequence of a legality of the powers that have power... to regulate it and to carry it out. To point out that this Parliament is sovereign and that it can do what it wants is the same thing that we hear from the President of Venezuela, Maduro, when he acts according to his interests or according to his parliamentary majority that he has had until not long before jumping away from any kind of legality and acting in a totally arbitrary way. I suppose what we are living here today in this plenary, in this Parliament Hall, is the result of the intoxication – of intoxication – that during the last few weeks Members who have participated in the committee created for it have lived. I suppose that inviting experts in constituent processes from Venezuela, Bolivia or Ecuador have been tied to the actions and ways of working in these countries, where democracy, truth, is quite in question. I would also like to point out to you that what is happening at the moment in the Catalonian Parliament is to break the legally established democratic order and replace what is otherwise illegal. So let's say things by their name: it's happening right now, or it's going to happen in a few minutes in the Parliament of Catalonia an act that is undemocratic. Independenceists, you are carrying out an act that is undemocratic. Because you cannot be outside the law, you cannot be outside the rule of law. And it is true that this proposal is going to be approved, and I have already announced that the Members of the People's Party are not going to participate in this illegal act, but I want to remind you, because they seem to be forgotten, that it is true that they have a majority in this Parliament, but that majority that they have in this Parliament is a majority that they do not have on the street, it is a majority that they do not have in Catalan society. A Catalan society that is turning its back on them every day much more. And you need to throw the ball forward, you need to create a story, you need to face yourself, look for an enemy and provoke confrontation, provoke division, provoke institutional confrontation. And this provocation and this irresponsible and undemocratic attitude won't come out for free, be sure it won't come out for free. Mr. Puigdemont, Mr. Junqueras... who look at me with this face, you're not going to come out for free. [[Rialles.]] The rule of law will work; the rule of law will take more or less – I have a slight intuition that it will take less, on this occasion – but that those who, like you, are willing to violate democracy, to put freedom at risk... You are filled with the mouth talking about freedom, the freedom of those who are not independentists is what is being violated in Catalonia, the freedom of those men and women who do not think like you in many municipalities, in many peoples of Catalonia and who cannot express freely, huh? , who do not participate in a postulate..., who do not participate in an independentist and rupturist idealistic. That is the freedom that you are putting at risk today and that is the freedom that you are violating today. That's why when I hear you talk about that you have a right, that you have no idea how many things, that you are not allowed to act in freedom..., it's the world upside down: here the only ones that violate the freedom of those who want to live together are you, those of the independence parties. And I want to tell you one thing, because before that, in the turn of prayers and questions, Mr Puigdemont, you asked me at the end and I couldn't answer it. I prefer to have a President of the Government in office with an approved budget and acting according to the legality than a President of the Generalitat who has no budgets and who is joined by the radical independenceists of the CUP. [[Greetings.]] Do not have any doubt about it! I prefer to have a president of the government like Mariano Rajoy, even being in office, because at least he does not put stability at risk and at least he is able to act according to the dictate of the rules and the rule of law, which you, being in full office, are not doing and allow this violation of this whole part of the bench of this Parliament of Catalonia to be carried out, but above all of the 5_million Catalans and Catalans that we are not independentists. This is what you're doing. And I want to say to you, listen, with this kind of attitude, with what you are doing today, do not have the slightest doubt: you are denigrating the Catalan institutions at international level; you are denigrating us all and you are making yourselves and the Catalan institutions ridiculous, and you are becoming aware of it. And besides – and it's not a small question – you, who always like to talk about defending the essences of Catalanism, which defend Catalonia's self-government, are seriously putting that self-government at risk. I hope that at some point they will be able to rectify this behavior. I hope that at some point – I say this sincerely, Mr Puigdemont – common sense will return, I do not know if to this whole bench, but to a part of it. Acting as you are today, the Speaker of Parliament and the parliamentary majority – which is not the social majority of Catalonia – I can assure you that Catalans are putting at risk what many people of different ideologies have been fighting for a long time; that some have lost their lives, and how life is and what circumstances and things are, how everything evolves, that those who for many years have been filled with their mouths in defending that Catalanism and that self-government, today are the ones who are putting it at risk. Correct, they're still in time. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.201.0	Thank you very much, Mr Albiol. Next, has the word "Mrs. Gabriela Serra", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.202.0	Thank you. This radical independenceist intervened warned for the interlocutory of the Constitutional Court; interlocutory that carries dates from July 19, the same date that we satisfied the fascism in the streets of this city of Barcelona. [[Greetings.]] And this radical independenceist... like his companies and companies, we start from the conviction that there is currently no scope for the recognition of the right to decide on the Catalan people within the constitutional and legal framework of Spain. We are therefore starting from the decision to indeterminate a course of disobedience, and also, and consequently, we are starting from the option of unilaterality. Precisely, Mr. Iceta, because we want to end the process. Why? Because all disobedience is unilateral. Because it means that one side disobeys another that believes it has power, truth, and justice. To whom you tell us that disobedience – that is, unilaterality – tempts against legally established democratic principles, we must remind you that we are talking about disobeying the 78 rule; a rule born from the ashes produced by the Faixist, illegitimate and illegal military uprising against a republic that was democratic and that had been sorted by a majority of citizens and popular in the Spanish State. We insist: we disobey as the only possible alternative to regain freedom and build sobrieties; sovereignty of all kinds, which puts at the center the interests of the popular classes, of the most evil social sectors, of the conjunction of the people expelled for capitalism and for the patriarchy that did not attack the Constitution that was voted in the process. We also want to place our birth, the Catalan Countries, in the centre, which is divided territorially and politically, and which is the victim of a monarchical and nationalist constitution. The answer to this reality of exclusion, of impoverishment, of limitation of individual and collective freedoms has never ceased to exist, years against: organised civil society, social movements, trade unions, tides and various fight placards have filled the streets these past few years to demand solutions to the crisis, to the retail, to the privatizations, to the corruption. And they have faced all the consequences of a neo-liberal, exploitative and, therefore, expelling system. And this same organized society – that today we are joined by some organizations of this society: the ANC, the Cultural World, the AMI – has also used the streets to fight for the right to decide, the right to self-determination and to recover our national rights. And so it became an extensive popular and independent movement that on 27 September at the polls converted the clam for independence with a political mandate to build the Catalan Republic; a political mandate that collected the right to disobedience, unilaterality and the recovery of social rights in the 9-N resolution approved for this Parliament of Catalonia. A resolution explicitly expressing non-compliance with the decisions of the Spanish State and, in particular, with the Constitutional Court, which lacked all legitimacy after its continued suspensions, prohibitions of laws approved by this Parliament. It is not that we want to skip the Constitutional Court, it is that the Constitutional Court, Mr García, is the one that skips the decisions of this Parliament, of a referendum and, at last, of the Congress of the Deputies of the Spanish State, which was dropped, our proposal for reform, for the Constitutional Court. So, let's face it: no more impositions or limitations calling upon the laws of this misguided democracy. Since the CUP - Crida Constituent we recognize the people as the most political subject; we defend that the people of Catalonia have legitimated to start a process they constitute propi, citizen-based, cross-cutting, participatory, feminist, with the recognition and the indisputable support of Catalan institutions. And all this in coherence, not only with our programmatic framework or with the fight targets for which more than 300,000 people trusted us, but also with the 9-N resolutions or the resolution presented by the CUP - Creed Constituent at a special time. We can design a new country; we find ourselves in a social forum they constitute; we talk about it, we discuss it, both territorially and sectorally, organised civil society takes up the debate and approves proposals on the trunking aspects that the future constitution must vertebrate. Proposals which, once consulted, must become binding. We have this exercise of democratic transversality, of all kinds of democratic transversality: deliberative, participatory, representative, direct, referendum, consultative and that without any type of exclusion or pre-determination we can say that an exercise of popular sovereignty has been carried out; that it has permeated volunteers, aspirations and proposals for refuge to become fathers, we do not want this model any more. And we want to call constituent elections, without them there would be no assembly, no proposal for constitution for the Catalan Republic. And what's even more fitting: if we don't summon them, we won't complement the political mandate democratically emerges from citizen demands both in the street and in the polls. Some constituent elections will have to be endorsed and legitimized for the results obtained in the call of the unilateral referendum of independence and commitments for the law of legal transitionality. To those who have said that Catalonia needs to initiate a process constitute propi, based on the full sovereignty of the Catalan people as the subject of the collection that can decide its future, that it is not subordinate or subordinate to other brands, we answer that the best and possibly the only democratic instrument to legitimize it is the call for a unilateral referendum of independence. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] A RUI, yes, Mr.Iceta, you are right, a RUI : unilateral reference of independence, that the CUP - Creed constitute the volem, the flight and we will do the possible because it is reality between the first semester of 2017. And we'll participate and we'll participate as democrats that we are. We've done a bit of work. Now the process is swallowed up in this Parliament outside the street. We're going back to the city because it's appropriate, because it's theirs, because it's always been theirs, because it's all theirs, because no court can stop it or stop us. And don't threaten us, please, don't threaten us, don't waste time. And I don't quote anyone because no one feels pleased, but they don't threaten us anymore. Because at hours of the day – at hours of the day – you should know, you should know very clearly, that we do not have, for, for, we do not have, and will not be with complaint or approval of decisions only with the strength of actions where you see that we, for independence and for the Catalan Republic, without, we will achieve it. "Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.203.0	We shall then proceed to the vote on the ratification of the Report of the Constituent Procedure Commission. [[Pause.]] They ask me to tell them that the Socialist Group, still a Romanesque in the room, will not participate in the vote. We're calling it a vote. [[The Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History asked to speak.]] Mr. Junqueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.204.0	I would like to ask for the word for allusions. [[Pause.]] What's going on, who told me is not there, but I'd like it to be in the Minutes that I want to address a question to Mr. Xavier García Albiol, who told me, and the President, and he told us, he literally said to us: "And you won't get them out for free. O: "It will not come free to you. I'd like to ask Mr. García Albiol if that statement he made because he has some kind of privileged information from the Interior Minister. [[relays]] or if... what's with the phone? [[Greetings.]] Or if there's a prosecutor who's fine-tuning something. If when you come back to answer us... in any case, that is in the record the question I address to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.205.0	All right, Mr. Junqueras. We shall then proceed to the vote on the ratification of the Report of the Constituent Procedure Commission. The vote begins. The report of the Committee on Constitutional Procedure was approved by 72 votes to 11, with no abstentions. [[Perlongats applause.]] There's gonna be a change in the order of the day, in time, for a matter of time and to take the middle break, huh? [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, the eighth point..., now we are debating, now we will substantiate the eighth point, but what was predicted as new point, which is the proposition of the law guaranteeing the maximum time of response in healthcare, will pass to the second of late, after point number 10. Okay? [[Pause.]] [[Decree Law 4/2016 of 21 June of partial recovery of the extraordinary and additional payment for the month of December 2012 of the public sector staff of the Generalitat and other urgent personnel measures]] [[203-00005/11]] The eighth item on the agenda is: debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 4/2016 of 21 June, partial recovery of the extraordinary and additional payment of the December 2012 public sector staff of the Generality and other urgent personnel measures. In accordance with Article 155.2 of the Rules, she submits this decree to Ms. Meritxell Borràs, Governance Adviser, Public Administrations and Habitats.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.206.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, Councillors, Councillors, after this moment of transcendence of this chamber, I appear before this House to present the Decree of 4/2016, of 21 June, partial recovery of the extraordinary and additional payment of the December 2012 public sector staff of the Government of Catalonia and other urgent measures in matters of personnel; a decree which, as you know, was approved for the Government on 21 June with an unearmarkable character, for two very concrete reasons. The first is political: for the explicit intention of the Government to compensate for the efforts made during the time of the public servants, which in later years have seen their salaries reduced as a consequence of the economic difficulties caused by the crisis in the finances of the Government of Catalonia. In the second term, to be instrumental: for the need to adapt the standards in force in salary for 2016 and to make possible the partial subscription of this extraordinary remuneration in the current exercise of budgetary extension. It is, therefore, a step further in the government's compromise because public servers can recover their labor rights. This execution and I myself have recognized on multiple occasions the task that thousands of public servers have completed in a context of strong economic crisis, and today we will do it again. I also believe that it is important to highlight the attitude of all the agents present at the General Bureau of the Negotiation of the Public Employee of the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia, who have allowed to reach an agreement from which arises this decree, making compatible the demand of some better conditions for the public servants with the financial situation of the Generality of Catalonia. With this decree we also give response to the mandate that this Parliament approved with Resolution 7/XI, on the recovery of the extraordinary 2012 pay and other public workers' labour rights, with the following measures. In the first place, to leave without effect the measure that established that the reductions resulting from the year 2012 had to correspond, like at least, to an import equivalent to 5_percent of the full remuneration received during the year 2012. Secondly, compromise to liquidate the 20.77_percent of the import that has ceased to be perceived, and that correspond to thirty-eight days of the extraordinary pay, preferably during the month of October and, as at most, the month of November of this 2016. And thirdly, the recovery of part of the working rights of public servers through the return of personal and vacation days by reason of seniority. And, in this sense, public servers will once again have two additional days from the three-year period, one additional day for each three-year period completed from the eighth, in the concept of personal assumptions. For that which he does on the holiday days, those servants who are fifteen years old in service may enjoy a day; of two days which are in the day; of three days which are in the day-to-day, of four which are in the day-to-day, of thirty or more. As we have already stated, this return would not have been possible without the agreement that it was possible to sign between the Government..., in the case of the General Staff Negotiation Bureau of the General Administration, therefore, on 9 June 2016; an agreement that, in addition to these measures, provides for the return of the total amount of the extraordinary payment of 2012 in the terms provided for in the same resolution as it had previously stated. In the same line we are still talking on the table to determine the return calendar for the 2013 and 2014 foreign payments, while no one escapes that this, therefore, can materialize when the economic situation of the Generality so allows and when the assumptions also make it possible for us. Therefore, our will is firm, positive and proactive to establish a building dialect that produces more agreements and allows approval, if you consider it that way, of more measures such as today's presentation, or as areas that we have put on the negotiating table, and we have put in place the recovery of the Social Welfare Fund and the complement of productivity. For all that I have explained to you, I want to ask you for your support for the validation of this decree, which will make it easier for public servants, therefore, to already enjoy the labor rights that I have previously mentioned. Probably a few of you don't have to be 100_per_cent satisfied with this measure. In fact, we all want the return of all rights to be in an immediate way, but what's certain is that the government is the first to want, I insist, to return all rights to public servers. But it is a decree on the basis of a realistic and achievable agreement, which complements the parliamentary mandate, in addition, that the assembly of this chamber approved on its day and that, therefore, it also counts, as you know, with the view of the representatives of the public servants. There was one who doubted that the mandate of Resolution 7/XI, therefore, would not be the end of the term; there was one who questioned the government's will for the end of the term. As you see, the government's will was firm. And, therefore, in this sense, today this can be approved in this Parliament. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.207.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then, to fix his position, has the word Mr Joan García, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.208.0	President, Members, Members, well, after what we have experienced, from this tragedy before, maybe we could start talking about this point which is partly part of the tragedy, right? That's beyond the tragedy we've experienced before. In the end, it's all done with an obvious will. We are going back to the House to debate the second part, and it will not be the last, of this inconclusive report that the Government and the Group of Joints for the Yes carry leading from the generation. In fact, today we come to this House to debate a return order from the 2012 extra pay. Almenys this was the headline that you wanted to use, because you wanted to approve it, therefore, in full electoral process. That's a good date, isn't it? To bring some things here. Unfortunately, today's decree to approve us presents a mutilated version of that holder that they used so well: the return of a 20_per_cent of one of the three foreign payments that remain to be paid. A detailed version – it says that they certainly know very well. But she's not worried-- Counselor, I know she's busy, but she's not worried that I'll vote for her, we'll vote for her. Then you can watch the video, and there's no problem; it's no concern. But we'd like to make some comments. The first consideration, his lack of willingness. I believe that this is not negotiable for anyone; we have experienced since the late past the incapacity you have had to meet with the workers' representatives and call the Civil Service Bureau. This lack of will has been seen, including, was seen on the day of the plenary, as the day of the plenary, at the last moment, in its tradition of investments, so they decided to join a motion for a resolution that brought this group and the rest of the opposition groups. Well, I think you've already added up enough months to carry out all this, including the debate about what you're going to do with the 2013 and 2014 foreign payments. I believe that this lack of willfulness is self-evident. The second consideration perhaps is the lack, therefore, of recollection to public workers. And I'll explain. You've had a lot of determination – the one you haven't had to negotiate – to detail public workers over these years and use them as financing for your own, say, government actions, in some questionable cases. But never – never – and that's what he said, it's never been proactive. Madam Counselor, I may have wanted to sell it this way now, but it didn't follow by proactivity. In fact, the unions haven't told us to trick them every day to talk to them. In fact, once they signed this decree they haven't called them any more, and they're waiting, because obviously, there's a lot to negotiate. See if there's anything left, but there's still two extra payments to pay. The third consideration, and which we consider very important, is delliality. Miri, for years of crisis, has been immigrating from his details, the strategy of government – which up until today, and today we have seen it – has continued to enshrine as a political tool the delinquency and the continued institutional confrontation. And they made use of a set of resources that we have always considered untouchable, because they were intended for their political purposes. For us, today's agreement, as well as having the strong consensus of the unions, because they would want another agreement, is an exhibition of another disloyalty: the one you have with the public workers. And let's say it because we know that what we say, and it's time to say it, so maybe at a trading table you can't say it. That's what we're talking about, as we said, the 2013 and 2014 foreign payments. You, and I speak both of the Government and of your group, which support the Government, have given poor priority to what are the real problems of Catalans, and this agreement is not a tangible show, because it is an insufficient agreement. Really – and this is a question I raise – do they think that the paper they have had in all this process of devolution of the rights suspected to public workers has been the right one? Do they really think so? [[Pause.]] Okay. This you know well that has been done in other parts of Spain very well and much better than what is being done here; but, well... you have done without victimism, without confrontation, without complacency. But here, as long as it is more important to deal with empty laws of content – and we have examples of them today in the plenary – or to approve discussions or conclusions of a future that will never arrive than to devote time to listening to public workers..., you think they will not be ruling. We are also in the midst of a process of disconnection, of disconnection of you. Therefore, in the meantime, we will continue to work because the common sense of government one day in Catalonia. We're running to make it happen in his name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.209.0	Thank you, Congressman. The words "Mrs. Alicia Romero", of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.210.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillors, councillors. So, they're taking us today to validate a decree that obviously we would vote in favour – it couldn't be in any other way – because basically this decree is the result of a motion for a resolution that was approved here, in this Parliament, the 20th generation and in which..., in a way we believe to be insufficient, but it was finally approved unanimously and with the agreement of everyone, we agreed to return to the workers some rights that were suspected and the return of some payments..., or on the one hand of the payment, because basically the great compromise of that motion for a resolution was to make 'if you make a payment schedule of these pending accounts, which basically was the 2012 and 2014 pay. Well, today they are carrying this decree, which somehow responds positively to a small part of that motion for a resolution; not at all, she will advise. Therefore, we will remain very loving, because it is true that it complements, it is true that we complete the payment of the 2012 payment in the terms that are set out to the proposal and the reversal of some rights, such as the days of leave or the days of vacation. It's true that there are other things that still haven't been fulfilled, have there? , you still have to close a calendar to know when the 2013 and 2014 payments will be charged and other labor rights, as you said, which have not yet been granted. Therefore, there remains an important part of this motion for a resolution to resolve, to agree, and we will be loving. Now, well, happy to have arrived here. Now, you can't say so many times "the government's will," because if you've actually volunteered, we might have reached this agreement on October, or November, or December, like other autonomous communities, and it wasn't done. And it wasn't so until we brought the opposition groups – I remember, of the whole opposition – plus the CUP Parliamentary Group, here, a resolution proposal, in which we forced the government to move's, so that it had not been satisfied, since November 6, at a public office negotiation table with no agreement. Therefore, willfulness, willfulness..., we do not know; what is clear is that they have had to complete a resolution and, therefore, that the decree we approve today is the consequence of that resolution. And, therefore, I would also like that to be made clear. Then there was..., since this resolution was approved, the 20th of generation, the first table was the 19th of February, and there have been different meetings. It wasn't easy, and you must know, Counselor: it wasn't easy, it wasn't easy, it wasn't easy, it wasn't fast that it came to a common solution, but there were many meetings, many meetings of the Bureau's trade unions..., that's to say it wasn't nice either. And it's strange, because at the end of the day the agreement that comes up is to pay a 20_percent of the 2012 pay, this 2016, and after 2017 and 2018. You're saying she seems to be lying that it's been so hard to get to this deal, right? And, therefore, perhaps the government should be a little more flexible and more adaptable to the hour of reaching agreement with the unions, bearing in mind that the public officials have been making a lot of efforts for many years, much more than they have in Catalonia, to try to deal with some of the effects of the crisis that affect the assumption of the generality. So, man, we could, I think, be a little more considerate of them and now put a little more rhythm to the months of public service negotiation and try to close agreements as quickly as possible; as you'll know what time it is for them to return their rights, which they've never been..., that's to say, they're suspicious, but they were theirs, because collective negotiations..., when they come to terms and when they get right, they don't disappear; we don't give up on rights. Another aspect I wanted to comment on was... I told the advisor that, well, that the 2013 and 2014 pay, well, will have to be scheduled, because the assumptions of the Generalitat are complex. Yes, obviously, and now we're on a presuppositional prorogation. But I would like to say to you: tomorrow – tomorrow – you could bring here..., or tomorrow not, but at the next plenary session you could bring here the modification of the inheritance tax to get more tickets, and from here decide, these more tickets, in which priority. It could be this or it could be, as we said yesterday with Councillor Baiget, the download of university taxes a 30_per_cent, which was approved, certainly, in this Parliament – democratic mandate that is not complete... Well, there are some decisions that you could take and do not take. So, that's, like, all day, right? So, try to put as the argument the general budget deficit situation, which is certain that there are, when we have at these moments at hand put solutions on the table to get more tickets, we seem to make a little trap. So, what are we doing today? We approve of this validation of the decree, but we ask the Government to speed up the meetings of the Public Service Negotiating Bureau, to speed up the agreements – that will take them too long, that you will work, with the most punishments of the Spanish State – and, therefore, that they complete the resolution – because with this decree you do not approve everything, you approve part of it. And we will be very loving, because we have said..., we may be incredulous, but we must be very careful because the government has completed what is approved in Parliament; in this case and in many others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.211.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next is the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.212.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselors, advisor, the Government presents this decree to us to validate..., referring to partial recovery – because there is already a share paid in 2015 – of the extraordinary 2012 pay of the public sector staff of the Generalitat, and we tell them that we will vote in favour. We will vote in favour, because basically it is concreteness and translation in the form of a decree from the agreement of the General Bureau of the Public Service of 9 June, and we have repeatedly defended and continue to defend here that labour disputes are to be resolved through collective bargaining between the parties and that the Parliament is to facilitate the legal instruments to carry out the agreements of the negotiation. To every one, therefore, the one who touches him. And here I could finish my intervention, but as long as I have some time, I would like to make a finding, a comparison and a petition. The finding is simple. In the statement of reasons, the Government adds to present this decree law– and we agree, because, if not, we cannot approve it in a decree-law format– an urgent need to adopt legal measures to give compliment to the Bureau's agreement and to the subsequent resolution of the 20-generation Parliament. He adds: "despite the presuppositional prorogation. Ah! So, if the government wants, it can. Therefore, all that because of the evil intentions of the evil opposition not to approve of superhyper-social assumptions could not do much of what they wanted is not true. As a minimum, some things, as they are today, can be done. So far he has found it; every one that understands it as it pleases him. The comparison. Comparison has to do with the different difficulties faced by some public workers or others at the time of maintaining their wages. While some public directives that exceed a councillor's entrances support the self to guarantee its high purchasing power and no one has discussed it and have not had to wait for it, as well as the limitation of salaries from the high ranks that we approved on March 2013, the group of workers in the public service has had to see a pay cut in 2012, an illegal part according to the sentiments. He had to wait for this Parliament to make a resolution four years later, the generation of this year, and he had to argue for the payout percentages at three years' notice, for six months, to reach an agreement that will allow them to recover the full pay six years after they have -retailed it. I know that the comparison I am making is certainly demagogic, I know; but it is highly illustrative of an unfair situation, and the perception of the difference in the treatment is almost offensive. So this is where the comparison goes. And finally, the petition: we ask the government to study how it can adapt this decree to the law that we will approve today to the recent Supreme Court ruling in relation to the return of the deserved share of the workforce. Last month, the Supreme Court gave reason to the unitary lawsuit lodged a long time ago for the recovery of the deserved days of the 2012 overtime of labor personnel. A little reminder: July 15, 2012, the working staff had deserved 44 days of 180 – because the working staff had a six-month calculus – and the working staff had not deserved 196 out of 366 – because the working staff had an annual calculus. This difference between civil servants and workers is covered by the recent Supreme Court ruling which obliges the Generality to pay these 196 days, which is 53.56_percent of the pay. The Bureau's agreement overcomes this feeling, because it establishes the full cancellation charge, right; but the judgment marks differences at the time of payment, according to the agreement and what you say this decree. Said in another way, the agreement contemplates the collection of a 20.3 of the extra pay before November 2016, and, in order to complete the sentence with regard to the labor personnel, this percentage should be of 29.52 before September. On the other hand, the fact that the Supreme Court recognizes by judgment the right of recovery of the deserved party places the possibility of asking for the procedural interests since the date of the first favourable judgment of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, or continue, since October 2013, if the Generality did not pay in the voluntary period. And I honestly believe that this would be the least recognition we could offer, after the battle that our workers and workers carried out four years ago to recover an unjust and now, according to the judgment, a manifestly illegal statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.213.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Next is the words of María José García Cuevas, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.214.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Party of Catalonia, of course, we will validate Decree Law 4/2016 of 21 June, as a minimum, basic measure, so that the Government of the Generalitat begins to return to the officials part of what has been holding them back during these years of crisis. We say that it is a minimal, basic measure, because it seems to us insufficient; insufficient considering the economic commitment, and it should almost also be said moral, that the Government of the Generalitat has with these officials, who have suffered more cuts and for more time than the rest of their colleagues, attached to other autonomous, municipal or state administrations. We have already said this in the negotiation of the transaction and in the debate on the motion for a resolution which gave rise to this decree; a decree which also responds to the commitment made at the sectoral table; an agreement which is possible – and the negotiations must be possible – but which we consider insufficient. And that is why, from the point of view of politics, we reserve the legitimate right to be maximalists and to demand that the Government return to the public servants all that is due to them, because it is fair and sensible to ask for it. And because the officials are not responsible for the precarious financial situation of the Generalitat, which can no longer blame everything on Spain, because if this crisis has demonstrated something is that there are different ways to govern. Some charge responsibility and cuts in people, and others deal with solving problems and not creating them. And let's look, for example, at Madrid and Baleares, communities also penalized by the wonderful funding system that the Junts pel Si parties agreed with President Zapatero... ; but that these communities – Madrid and Baleares – have faced the crisis with an efficient management model, reducing structures and asking their officials for the effort of an extra pay that is already returning them. And we have Catalonia, which faced the crisis with a separatist plan; spending on internationalization and state structures, unnecessary duplication; centrifuging debt and responsibility; with incomprehensiblely inefficient financial management – and let us remember that of « the Government of the Best. And in the end, burdening all the austerity effort on its officials, to whom it cuts three extra wages, the triple that in the rest of Spain and to the Catalan officials of other administrations, and that it has not shown any willingness to reverse these cuts if it is not for the pressure of trade union, political pressure and parliamentary pressure. But, for other things, there is money. On the other hand, the Government has had no choice but to publish this decree, in fulfilment of the binding mandate, from the Government of Spain, to return at least part of the extra payment that was cut to them in 2012. Binding mandate established as core legislation in the General State Budgets 2015. And it must also be said that it has been the courts that have forced the Government to reverse the 5_per_cent reduction in the approved salary..., which they approved: Government Agreement 33/15, March 10. Agreement that was declared null and void, by judicial order of 22 December 2015, here they have it. [[The speaker shows a full camera.]] An official has won it, and any other official who claims it will win it. This self classifies the approval of such agreement of disguised disobedience, strategism or arrogance, of fraud of law, and doubt on the good faith of the action of the Generalitat; nothing more and nothing less. Mention should also be made of the supreme's firm judgment – which has already been commented on – and which nullifies the retroactive reduction of the Government's rights to its officials, from the extra pay deserved until July 2012. Therefore, and for the time being, between trade union pressure, parliamentary mandates, state decrees and judicial decisions, we have all achieved this decree law. That's right, we don't know anything about the rest of the 12th and the 13th and 14th pay. The reality in the rest of Spain – and it should also be in Catalonia if the separatist dream allowed us to do so – is that the adjustments that we have all undergone, to a greater or lesser extent, since 2010, have now been terminated. What is now up to us is to return the effort of the citizens and prioritize this obligation, to put aside other issues, the political projects of each one, which can be legitimate but can never go ahead with the rights and freedom of the people. Officials have the right to receive their salaries, in full and in full; the cuts of 12, 13 and 14, exceptional and reversible, have to be returned; and we are not going to allow the Government to seek to consolidate them as a reduction in wages and labour rights. For our part, count on it. In short, by applying and complying with the basic regulations and judicial decisions – normal thing – and also in defense of justice, stability, good governance and common sense, we will validate the decree law that is presented to us. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.215.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.216.0	Thank you, President. It will advise, members of the Government, the decree that, already stated in the interventions that have preceded me, is presented today to validate, therefore, in some way is the answer to the agreements reached at June for the negotiating table and also, obviously, is the answer to the resolution approved for this Parliament last month of generation, of political character, where we urge the Government to take appropriate measures to recover the details and social rights of public employees. As has already been expressed in the interventions, we are, therefore, putting back to the chamber a debate that we have already had as long as we have treated the pay as we have treated the wage increase, as the different proposals that have been put forward in Parliament. And in this sense, then, let us argue that our group will support the decree or validate the decree, even though we are not in the hundred_per_cent..., obviously, that we are pleased with the return on which we place this decree, that we understand that it is the result of the agreements entered into, as we have said, and that it is in the line of defense of the recovery of the purchasing power of the workers of the Public Administration, which, as has been repeated several times, these have suffered a loss of 30_per_cent; a very important loss. But beyond what the decree brings, once more and every time we talk about remunerations that affect the functioning, we like it as CUP - Crida Constitutes making some reflections. One is to make it clear that this should place us or we think that we should place it in a general framework, in a framework in which it is found, and we will not tire of repeating it, the joint venture of the working class of the country, which, as we all know, is a framework of precariousness; of reductions in general wages, which has been exaggerated in the world of small business, of labor reforms that have liquidated basic rights and brought the same labor contract to precariousness. It is not a matter of dealing with interests among social sectors, as has sometimes been accused of, but it is a matter of calling for, any increase in important sectors of our population, which is seen in the framework of a political will to approach without regard to questions affecting a majority of the country's workers and workers and which they have supported outside the institution and also outside the regulation and even beyond the necessary complicity of political and trade union organizations, the burden of labour insecurity. And it's in this brand... it's not just, we think, about regaining the purchasing power of public administration workers, who have a right and we share that right, but also the need to fix, as has been said, a top of maximum and minimum wages, huh? or you pay that you manage the Administration with the objective that the disproportion between each other, between the highest and lowest, is drastically reduced. One thing that we had planted in this Parliament, therefore, is thought to be demagic, but that the press of past dills posed again in evidence and showed us the two cares of this reality: the profit by direction, by other direction, with a sum of over EUR 115,000 per year, huh? , a profit from the measures taken in this Parliament, and the lack of the Rules to do it, and which left it all, somehow, in the hands of good will. We also want to remember when it comes to retributive aspects that we are, like the country, submitting to a political and economic secret in which the ability we have is little and hard conditioned, it is certain – not to say null – for a permanent intervention and dictation of the State. The defence of the recovery of the purchasing power of the public administration workers, therefore, we place it in favour of the public sector, a sector that – we have already said a few times and we repeat – we want to be able, on the one hand, to retail, on the other hand, to store jobs, on the other hand, which is being taken up by private companies, and on the other hand, a public sector which allows them to work, for the purpose of efficient and effective administration, with the prospect of ensuring a fairer and fairer society. And it is in this position framed in the general situation of job insecurity, they submit – as we are in the country – in a political and economic secret, and with a clear will to defend the public sector, that we place our validation of this decree and also our parliamentary struggle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.217.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The words of Mr Sergi Sabrià, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.218.0	Thank you very much, President. He will advise, as always in the past three years and a half each intervention in this area we begin by thanking the public workers for their patience, for their generosity, for the efforts they have made these years in a context of enormous difficulty, and it seems to me that today, instead of asking for a more effort, we take a step in the right direction, a step more to reverse this situation, we can only start the same way we have done it during these years. I said the councilwoman, referring to the government's sphere. Let me do that too, in this case, referring to everything we have approved during this time in Parliament. There is a long, repeated and repeatedly voted will in this Parliament to recover all the rights lost during these years of detail, both for what it does to purchasing ability, as well as to working conditions. And, this, this agreement that we have voted many times together and that has repeatedly been put into question in this chamber, today is a little more reality; and although today is a little more reality, it seems that they want to put in, another time, this shadow of permanent doubt and that, therefore, when we complete the recovery of 2012, we quickly put the focus on..., or, quickly, they put the focus in 2014. And it's good that they do it, it's good that they're doing this opposition function, and that's why I'm looking at it, now, in the next step. But let's leave, from here, today, that we move forward, put in value, first, this 20-genre resolution, which was hard enough to cost, but which allowed us to do something that many times on the coast, which is an agreement for unanimous recovery of the pay – which was also put in doubt, but which is now reality – and with a calendar agreement, which was the one that collected..., and, therefore, how 100_per_cent of the pendant will be recovered in these three years until the first quarter of 2018. And the second, and I think it's also good that we say it from here, that it's the only way to get to agreements, that it's the dialogue attitude of the unions, the voluntary attitude of the unions, and of the government, also, at the General Bureau of Public Service, which allows us to reach this agreement, which I would say almost historically, after a long time, with many difficulties to reach agreement, on June 9. In this line, my companies insist very much on the fact that other things remain to be negotiated – and, in fact, we agree – and that there is not enough with this subscription in three parts that we have granted now, and that there is not enough with this..., that we do not have to forget, because it has come out less, but this agreement that allows the enjoyment of additional holiday days already from this very moment, or the recovery of personal days. But how many years did we talk about these holiday days? Well, a lot. And how many years did we do to find a solution for 2012? Well, a lot. So instead of some who didn't put in a good face, let me show my happiness and do it at a time when, as Alice said, I insisted..., Alicia Romero, I insisted that I continue to negotiate with Parliament whenever I come near us, but also at the table, and that if I meet every month, then I meet every month. We don't look like we've entered a good dynamic and, therefore, we follow, we follow and we follow. We are going to make a new country and this new country must also be the result of this social concertation, the pact between the social agents, the unions, the employers and the Generality. And, therefore, this example that we have today in this area, which I continue, we are talking about the remaining outstanding payments – the Councillor has also said this –; we are talking about the offer of employment; we are talking about the reduction of the temporality, which seems to me to be also an important issue, or the background of social action, so demanded by the unions. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. We do this from the consciousness of what we are today, from the economic difficulties that we still have, but if we do, if we do this from this attitude, this agreement today will not be the first and public workers will appreciate it, but also citizenship in general. And we keep celebrating this step, which for us is very important, which we are today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.219.0	After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the validation of the Decree Law of 21 June, partial recovery of the extraordinary and additional payment of the December 2012 public workers of the Generality. According to Rule 155.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. The vote begins. The law decree was approved by 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We suspend the session until two-quarters of four. [[The session is suspected of midday and three minutes and is two-quarters of four in the afternoon. She chairs the President of the Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who are assisted by the Secretary-General in office, the Major and the President Fernando Domínguez Garcia.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.220.0	It's part of the session. This morning, after the vote of the Decree Ill 4/2016, of partial recovery of the extraordinary pay of the workers of the public sector of the Generalitat, after the decree has been validated, I did not ask if there was any group that wanted this decree to be dealt with as draft law. So, I'm asking the question now. [[Pause.]] As long as there is no petition, this decree will not be dealt with as the bill of law. Let's continue, then, with the next point of the order of the day. [[Proposal for law of associations of persons consuming cannabis (debate of totality)]] [[202-00090/10]] Okay. Good afternoon to everyone, we will start the session with point 10, which is the Law proposition of associations of people who consume cannabis; then we will do point 9, which is the Law proposition of the guarantee of the maximum time of response in health care, and then we will substantiate point 11, which is the Law proposition of the creation of the Catalan Agency of Social Protection. Let's start now, therefore, the desire of the order of the day, which is the debate of totality on the proposition of law of associations of people consuming cannabis. In accordance with Rule 138.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, this initiative is presented by a representative of the committee promoting the proposal of the law, for a maximum of fifteen minutes. The word has Mr. Bernat Pellisa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.221.0	Hello, very late. Many honourable President, Members, Members, first of all, let me thank the more than 200 entities, 300 fedatarians involved and 57,000 signatures that have allowed us to open this parliamentary debate, which must promote progress in the recognition of the fundamental rights of people in Catalonia and the world. We are here today with the blessing of almost all the groups, of almost all the political parties that are here, in the chamber, represented. It makes us very satisfied at the same time that we consider this processing to be necessary and very urgent. Catalan society has pioneered the definition and development of a cannabic association. Already in the year 91 was founded in Barcelona the Association Ramón Santos d'Estudis del Cànnabis, which lasted a long time a collective. Since then, the number of these entities has proliferated. We believe that today there are some four hundred associations from this type of country. The model of association of cannabis consumers, which this law claims to be regular, has been built from the ability to face civil society challenges and demands a clear legal framework and legal recognition. The local administrations of Catalonia were, also, pioneers and the 2012 Assembly of Rasquera, which then presided over, approved a plan to promote scientific research and also to give solution to the challenges that at that time established the cannabic associations. A plaque which was also collected with a popular consultation for a 56_per_cent of the population and which was challenged by the State's lawyer, which brought an administrative contention, which we still await today from the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. I would like here, at this distance, to put into knowledge the high degree of hypocrisy to which it came at that time of different political actors and different joints. While the one that passed to Rasquera was put in public light, there were other mayors and other assemblies of the territory who wanted the Rasquera project without saying anything. They wanted the money, but they didn't want the solution. You will see here that at that moment we started with what today is the processing of The Green Rose law. The 29th generation of 2015 this Parliament approved the resolution of the motius exposition of which it made manifest the orientation of the Generality in drug policies and the need to approve a rule to regulate these associations. It is therefore appropriate to deal with a law that will bring benefits to the citizens of Catalonia; it will also provide greater protection for the salvation of people. The processing of this law will reflect a greater knowledge of reality and an effective recognition of individual and collective rights and freedoms. We also hope that this will begin to be the overcoming of a dogmatic and inefficient drug policy and that, once and for all, the prohibitionism and the costs that these policies entail for society will come to an end. With seventy years of prohibitionism, it has not been possible to eradicate a single consumer or to eradicate drug trafficking: either we regulate or let a space free of drug trafficking. This processing puts white on black of a reality that already works and that, today, proves that we are on the right path. It is also an opportunity to scientifically investigate the harmful and harmful effects that the substance has on people, since having a large proportion of consumers in associations makes it possible to have different bases of data that researchers will like and claim. We ask you not to miss this opportunity, that you are going through this law, that you interact with a living sector that exists, that has always wanted to provide solutions, that associations are not the problem, that, in fact, today must be the beginning of a law that must be a success not only for us, but for all of our society. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.222.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pellisa. In addition, for the defense of the totality presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, Mr Alberto Villagrasa has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.223.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members... and welcome, to the public this afternoon, to defend the amendment to the whole that we have tabled from our group, and from respect for all the interventions that are going to be made and that I am sure that all points of view..., none of them have an interest in trivializing on this issue. The debate before us has two aspects to deal with. One is about the model of society we want and the other is a legal debate. What model of society do we want? We are talking about pseudolegalizing an activity whose consumption or sale is prohibited, such as marijuana or cannabis. Some will say that with the ban nothing has been achieved, that it has not served anything, but let us make history of the consumption of other types of substances. For many years everyone was banalizing the consumption of alcohol and tobacco. Today smoking and alcohol is legal, but their high consumption was precisely due to the mistreatment that was given as an example and model of modernity. In the 1970s everyone wanted to be the cowboy who smoked on horseback in the ad. And today, yes, it is legal, but it is legislated against it, precisely because it is admitted that its consumption is harmful to health. Its consumption taxes are high; it is legislated so that the sale of alcohol and tobacco cannot be sold to minors; it is not possible to smoke in public places and of free competition; tobacco is obliged in its boxes to warn of the danger of its effects on health; there are advertising campaigns warning of how bad tobacco and alcohol, etc., are. Therefore, alcohol or tobacco, which are also drugs, is being legislated prohibitively and against their open consumption and restricting much more. Because among all, as a society, we have come to realize that their consumption... – in the case of alcohol – their abusive consumption does not bring anything good to the person. And it is the same case that with cannabis: no one can deny that the cannabis plant can have, with the proper treatment, a therapeutic use. But let no one be confused: having a therapeutic use does not mean that it cures, otherwise, it cures nothing. What is the therapeutic use of cannabis? The main palliative benefits attributed to it are: that it inhibits the nausea and vomiting of cancer and AIDS patients who are undergoing chemotherapy – i.e., sedative effect –; acts as an analgesic for pain in diseases such as multiple sclerosis or in the case of spinal cord injuries, or attenuates spasms and contractions caused by diseases such as epilepsy, multiple sclerosis or Parkinson's. I mean, he sleeps the pain, he drugs the pain. Therefore, what is used is its potential capacity as a drug that is to deceive the pain of the sick person. But that marijuana has those therapeutic effects does not mean that its consumption is good or beneficial to health. What effects are shown by the leisure consumption of marijuana? For example, let's talk about pregnant women. During pregnancy, the risk of mother, foetus or neonate increases; lower weight of babies in female consumers, or neurobiological changes due to exposure of cannabis in the maternal uterus expressed in neuropsychiatric problems in adolescence or adulthood. Leisure consumption. First, it evidently induces sleep. Second, altered perception and mental dispersion, i.e. difficulties in concentration. In high doses it can cause anxiety, dysphoria, paranoid symptoms and panic, and it is true that they are symptoms that disappear at hours. Effects on the cardiovascular system: produces dependent dose effects that occur on an accusative basis over two-hour periods. In heart rate it can cause both tachycardia and bradycardia, or, in blood pressure, depending on the position of the person who consumes, hypertension or hypotension. And obviously their usual consumption is addiction. Come on, a whole waste for the virtues of a human being's health. If we end up legalizing their consumption any activity related to marijuana consumption we are trivializing about its effects and we can give a totally wrong message to society. We can't say that smoking a pig doesn't mean anything; it does. And the more you smoke, the greater your effects. And of course it is not necessary to criminalize those who consume, the person who consumes must be made to see him, we must inform him of the real effects of the so-called "soft drug", because in the end all drugs are harmful. Information campaigns, especially targeted at young people, on the effects of drugs must be continued and the drug-trafficking mafias must be combated. But legalizing its consumption is giving a wrong message to society. In our country, in Spain and, specifically, in the city of Barcelona, the experiences we have in places where cannabis is consumed, the truth is that they have not been positive. In the city of Barcelona there are protests by the neighbors of the Ciutat Vella district in the streets where a club of this style is installed, or the complaints and problems that occurred for many months in the Poble Sec by a club close to Piazza Navas, where basically there were problems of smells and coexistence in the street..., in this street in the vicinity of the club. Therefore, the experiences to this day have been nothing positive, and, if not, let's look at Holland, what is your experience with coffee shops. Right now Holland is legislating to minimize marijuana production and stop being a cannabic tourist destination. Its goal is to reduce the supply as much as possible, those laws that are being passed are making many of these premises closing. I will now talk about a measure to which I am going to refer much later but in 2014 a regulation was adopted prohibiting such premises within 250 metres of school premises or vocational training, closing forty-one centres in one year. And they are also introducing very restrictive laws with the cultivation and transport of marijuana. They have tried to establish a card for residents of these clubs with the intention of restricting and preventing non-resident aliens from having access to these establishments for two reasons. One, it is the increase in cannabis consumption as a tourist destination but also by one young part of Dutch society, and another to reduce the public disorders that were occurring..., which produced by these were provoked around these centers. The problem is that the nationals do not want to register with the club and therefore: "I consume, but don't let them rule me out. We see in the end that Holland is an example of how these clubs have degenerated over time and has been nothing positive either for young people or for their tourism model. If it wasn't, I wouldn't be legislating to change it. In a healthy and sustainable model of society, work must be done to reduce the consumption of all kinds of addictive substances, whether tobacco, alcohol or all kinds of drugs, including cannabis. But let's talk about the drafting of the bill. In this bill we see several contradictions that arise, and we begin with article 15.1. Article 15.1 states that associations may not promote cannabis use, but that any manifestation of freedom of expression, such as participation in forums, social networks or media of any kind, shall not be publicized. If manifesting yourself on social networks or in the media is not promoting cannabis use, you will tell me what it is. And this point has a lot to do when we talk about being able to give wrong or wrong information to society. They then talk, in the text, of providing marijuana and its consumption for therapeutic use in those premises, when if this service is to be provided with guarantees it would have to be in corresponding medical and pharmaceutical centres. And here I will refer to one of the proposals that speaks of Holland. Here, in this text, there is at no time the sensitivity to mark minimum distances with sensitive premises or equipment, such as schools, nurseries, children's parks or vocational training centres, i.e. zero sensitivity. Or at no time is it said that if these premises were opened, cannabis consumption would be renounced on the public road, for example. But there is also an important legal problem, and you know it. If you want to put this proposal seriously, this is not the right forum. They would have to go to the Congress of Deputies, because this proposal for a law clashs head-on with the Criminal Code. They would therefore first need to reform the Criminal Code, and then, if they succeed, try to approve this proposal. What you're doing right now is starting the house on the roof, making noise, that's right. You know, what you're proposing here is illegal. And if in the future this bill is passed in this Parliament, in addition to the possibility that it will be appealed for going against the Penal Code, anyone who pays attention to them can end up being arrested, because, either because he plants marijuana or because of its transport or because of its sale, he would end up arrested for drug trafficking or transport. We would also oppose the Council of Europe Framework Decision of 25 October 2004 on the establishment of minimum provisions for elements constituting an offence of illicit trafficking, which states that ‘each Member State shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the following conduct is punishable: a, production, manufacture, preparation, offer, offer for sale, distribution, sale, delivery under any conditions, brokerage, transit dispatch, transport, import or export of drugs, and b, cultivation of opium poppy, coca bush or cannabis plant. As you will understand, we are not going to go against the directives of the European Union. Our model of society is committed to prevention, to improving information and to a more sustainable society that promotes good habits of life, and this bill and its fundamental objective clash head-on against all these principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.224.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Finally, in line with the amendment of Article 14 of Law 1/2006, of the People's Legislative Initiative introduced for Law 7/2014, there is the possibility of a turnaround on the part of the representative of the promoter's commission, for a maximum of five minutes. [[Pause.]] So, Mr. Bernat Pellisa has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.225.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, in the first place, with all the respect of the world, huh? We have not come here to trivialize the consumption of cannabis; we have simply come to what we think is to bring a solution and which can be discussed in a future before a law that will follow the different scientific arguments that the Member has put out of the table, and, if so, to defeat the other scientific arguments that they will also carry to defend... At the level of what the congressman said, about therapeutic cannabis – and with this I want to end – I will only bring a small anecdote, since he has done a sequence of therapies or maladies, with what he serves and what he does not serve. And you have to see a little bit of the pharmaceutical industry war. The cannabis and its component, THC, is already commercialized for an angled pharmaceutical with the commercial name Sativex, and is commercialized basically for multiple sclerosis, and is not accurately received for that reason that the malalts say it is so good, that it is for the chemotherapeutic malalts. And it just goes to multiple sclerosis because a multiple sclerosis disease is a long-lasting disease. Cancer disease is a long-term short-term illness. Just for that. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.226.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pellisa. Then, in order to position ourselves, we will give..., make the intervention the rest of parliamentary groups. In the first place, has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street, in representation of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.227.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to greet the promoter group of this ILP and congratulate them on the collection of more than fifty_ thousand signatures, and also thank them for bringing this debate today, above all, to help us lower the tensions experienced this morning and help us to relax the atmosphere a little bit. We are experiencing a historic moment, as the debate on cannabis, prohibitionist policies and the negative and positive effects of substance consumption are on the political agenda; not only autonomous, on the occasion of this ILP, but national, with the challenge of comprehensive legalization in 2017, carried out by Responsible Regulation, which I also take advantage of to greet, since they are among the public. And let us not forget the international agenda, with the legalization of consumption in Uruguay and several states of the United States. To contextualize, I would like to explain our position on cannabis. Citizens, as a socio-liberal party, believe that social welfare and social development policies are compatible with the freedom of individuals. The State regulates and protects civil liberties that cannot usurp the autonomy of individuals. The State should not moralize citizens, but, on the contrary, had an obligation to guarantee their moral autonomy, since morality belonged to the private sphere. The State does not have to interfere with private activities, except when it is to prevent harm from being done to others; therefore the difference with other types of drugs is relevant, since marijuana use does not directly affect the freedom of others. Therefore concerns such as damage to third parties we understand that they can justify laws such as against driving under the effects of the substance or establish a minimum age for consumption, but in no case justify the absence of regulation of a tangible reality assumed by society, such as the large number of cannabis users in Spain. As Adolfo Suárez said at the beginning of the transition, we have to raise to the political category of normal what at the street level is fully normal. Cannabis, like all drugs, is harmful to health, we will not deny it, but we understand that it is regulated with more restrictive criteria than other substances, such as alcohol or tobacco, whose abuse can be much more harmful to health. As I said, we will not deny that it can become harmful to health, among other things because, as a substance or activity involving pleasure, it can generate dependence. Antonio Escohotado, writer and philosopher included in the list of the seventy most important thinkers of the twentieth century, gave the key when he spoke of the « art of dosing. But cannabis, or the magic plant, as some call it, also has many beneficial and scientifically proven properties. It is used to relieve the suffering of diseases such as sclerosis, arthritis, rheumatism, different types of cancer; marijuana has been shown to act as a soothing or relaxing agent in some mental disorders; it helps with nervous anorexia and overcome insomnia. It is one of the oldest medicines in humanity and with safer therapeutic uses; no case of lethal intoxication via inhalation is known, since it is of particular importance if we take into account the large number of daily users. For reasons of public health, from Citizens we support the adoption of legislative measures aimed at decriminalization and regulation by the State of the production and distribution of cannabis and its derivatives, both for particular use and for therapeutic use. Why for reasons of public health? Because, beyond the risks of having to go clandestinely to catch you go to know what and who, just as adult alcohol users have guarantees about what they are using, people with cannabis would have to be able to access a controlled, analyzed, healthy substance, and also be informed of the risks and/ or benefits of their consumption. We also believe that this regulation should be accompanied by necessary and essential parallel measures, such as programmes to inform and raise awareness of the harmful consequences for health, resulting from the abuse of their consumption, with programmes of detoxification and abandonment of the habit, prioritizing those of harm reduction. From Citizens, however, we understand that the majority of problems currently relate to prohibition policies, such as drug trafficking or the financing of terrorist groups. In Washington they have found that, after betting for regulation, the number of people involved in legal processes for drug trafficking has dropped from six_1,000 annually in 2012 to four_1,000 in 2015; a research conducted by the College of Physicians of the University of Washington in San Luis indicates that the total number of adolescents who consume marijuana has dropped nothing less than 24_per_cent. In Colorado, where cannabis use was regulated two years ago, according to information provided by Denver police themselves, in 2014 the robberies dropped by about 5_per_cent in the first four months of the year compared to the same period of the previous year, the homicide rate fell by 40_per_cent and the sexual offences dropped by 19.8_per_cent. In fact, one of the main factors is thought to be the improvement in the local economy: from 2009 to 2014, one-third of the state industry based in Denver is related to the cannabis industry, which has provided support for industrial recovery in Denver; the unemployment rate in the industrial sector has fallen steadily since 2011 and reached its historical minimum in 2015. For this reason, as Antonio Escohotado, says, from Citizens we advocate more for policies of illustration rather than policies oriented to obscurantism, betting on an integral regulation of national level. We do not deceive ourselves and do not want to deceive anyone: from Citizens we do not understand this ILP as an attempt to legalize marijuana, because this is a question of importance and national competence, which must be debated in the Congress of Deputies; but it is also true that there are many judicial judgments that support consumption and private supply on which these associations base their existence. According to the case law, self-sharing of drugs has no criminal relevance if the amount corresponds to normal and sporadic consumption among a small group perfectly identified, since they have a limit of partners and is carried out in a closed place. The Supreme Court has ruled that drug-sharing practices, which are not seriously harmful to health, are criminally harmless in specific locations, closed to the presence of third parties, so as to exclude participation in a drug dissemination circuit. In view of the background, we believe that this ILP could have an autonomous fit after going through the presentation phase, giving solution, among other things, to the complex edges that the ILP of Navarra already had, whose articulation lacked certain measures to allow the activity of the cannabic associations with the degree of security required, according to the argument carved for their suspension. It, for example, did not provide for the prevention of conduct that involved an offence against public health, for example, including a chapter on the duties of partners accompanying the existing rights. We will have, in the paper, an opportunity to include it. We therefore agree to open the debate and to allow us to know the role and the – already recognised previously in this Parliament – work carried out by social cannabis clubs, reduction of damage associated with the clandestine market and certain uses; to take into account the good work done, for example with this code of good practice of the Federation of Cannabic Associations of Catalonia, which includes transparency in the management of the association, accountability to the partners, the payment of taxes to the administrations, scrupulous health measures, such as ozone filters or odor inhibitors. But we believe that it is appropriate to contextualize this initiative in the context of a debate as relevant as that of responsible cannabis use. We want associations, consumers, technical, scientific, police and prosecutorial experts, the Council of State and judges to be heard and taken into account in their repeated recommendations for regulation to advance the protection of citizens. In short, responsible debate of high level and empirical, not capricious and unjustified prohibitions. For reasons of legal certainty and the guarantee of the rights and freedoms of citizens, citizens must know beforehand when and why a public authority may consider that they are carrying out an illegal act and when not. And, since this is a matter of national and international importance, we believe it is appropriate to give this initiative the most important value of giving a voice to a debate that is being held at the national level with the participation of civil society and political representatives in Congress. We believe that it is desirable to face with illusion the procedure of presentation and to be courageous in the scope of it, so that the text that is finally put to the vote in this chamber does not suffer from unconstitutionality spots that can be used by those always to fuel the citizen frustration that they so much need to support their separatist arguments. Because after listening to the president say that from Madrid they take away the tools to help our poor, I am afraid to hear any day of these that Madrid won't let us smoke porros; capable they are, because I am no longer surprised at anything. And to avoid in the presentation, too, that the final text cannot be misinterpreted by the citizenry as a covert legalization of the substance, which, as I have pointed out before, we will achieve only through a serene and participatory process at the national level in which active associationism plays a predominant role, which this initiative seeks to recognize. And thus prevent this initiative from running the same fate as others, such as the law of the Foral Community of Navarra, who end up frustrate the legitimate aspirations of defenders of responsible regulation. Cheers and thanks. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.228.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.229.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will advise, take advantage of, first of all, to greet all the people who accompany us today in this plenary, the federations, the cannabic associations, also the commission for the promotion and also all the people who accompany us also related to different entities and physical people in the world of the cannabs. Today we begin the parliamentary process that must give place to a new law, the result of a popular legislative initiative that expresses the desire of more than 57,000 signing persons to regulate the functioning of associations of cannabis consumers. I would like to congratulate, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the task for all the people who have made this collection of signatures possible. About 57,000 people who employ us, this Parliament, to regulate an activity present today to many cities and towns of Catalonia – four hundred cannabic clubs in Catalonia; only to the city of Barcelona, and according to data from the Urban Guard, in the last two years the name of cannabic associations has tripled to reach the current 144–, a reality that has made the joints of Barcelona, Girona, Blanes, Sitges or Donosti, to put some examples, have stopped their regulation. The municipal policy, often, gives us examples of how we don't have to cover our eyes before the reality that exists, with which we have to live, and which is best done in an orderly way. This is, if not, the object of this Parliament: to regularize cannabic clubs, a debate that does not confuse with the legalization of marijuana, which has other different elements and which is of state competence. The position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is that this ILP can start its parliamentary process. We have thus communicated this to the most representative federations of the sector in the different acts to which they have invited us. We want to find a way to regulate this activity, and from the start the initial proposal that reverses this ILP seems to us a good starting point to regulate it. But we also believe that this ILP is good because it has some features that I'm going to highlight. This law must allow local governments a legal framework for regulating the activity of cannabid clubs throughout Catalonia. Therefore, legal protection of administrations, reduction of conflicts with the customs and protection, also, of consumers. The law must collect aspects related to the protection of health; the mechanisms of information and prevention must be established, as the title five of this ILP points out. It has to be, in addition, a law that defends consumers' rights and, for another band, ends with the stigmatization of people who consume them. And the law must respect the freedom of conscience and the free disposition of people's property. Responsible substance use will not be donated for prohibitive policies that we have all accepted as good during all these years. More than ever the fight against the consumption of narcotic substances present in our day to day and more than ever we are clear that with prohibition we will not end the problem. Moreover, the ability to purchase various substances via the internet and the pocket of the mafias increases the number of substances any other year. The United Nations warned the year 2013 of the huge increase in synthetic substances of new generation, in many legal cases, that appear faster than police laboratories can detect. L'any 2009 the UN xifrava in 166 the number of drugs existing in the world. Only three years later grew to 251, that is, a 50_per_cent more, in just three years. The UN recognizes the great difficulties in fighting drugs from prohibitionism. It is not my intention to start the debate on the legalization of drugs; neither do we touch nor have competitions, as I said before, to make decisions about this fact. Now it's no big deal, and also, naturally, interesting, because alcohol and tobacco are legal, but cannabis aren't. However, these data must certainly be used by the political forces to decide whether to continue in this prohibitionist line or to initiate, in the case of cannabis, a regulation-based line which has as its cornerstone the need to redouble efforts in information, education and prevention on the consequences and harmful effects linked to the consumption of this substance. And this second line will be easier if we are able to do it together with federations, associations and cannabic clubs, from the hand, sharing strategies that promote responsible consumption of a substance that is harmful to salvation. Experiences based on these processes have already been completed with a high degree of satisfaction, such as the Energy Control Risk Reduction Project, which aims to protect, promote and improve public health through a policy aimed at minimizing risks and damage from transparency and consumer information, and the approximation of these strategies to the usual consumer places. Ladies and gentlemen, who want to consume cannabis already does. The regulation of cannabic clubs should not imply an increase in consumers or consumers. Just look at other realities in Europe or the United States. As you know, Holland is one of the referents in these themes for its famous coffee shops. The American Journal of Public Health published a study about two years ago on the increase in cannabis consumption in the city of San Francisco, which has no regulation on cannabic clubs, and the city of Amsterdam, with a regulation that is extensive in its consumption. One of the conclusions is that there were no notable differences in the consumption of cannabis in those cities that he had regulated respect those that did not. In summary, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe that it is worth starting the debate and talking about a regulation of the cannábic clubs in Catalonia that can also be an example for other territories. And respect for the proposal will also appreciate some of the issues that we consider important. One of them is the age of entry to cannabic clubs. While the ILP is proposing that club members should be seniors, some reports from the Health Department recommend delaying this age until the age of twenty-one for issues related to the neuronal impact of exposure to cannabis in certain states. It will also be necessary to file first for which it refers to the transport of the substance from the place of worship to the clubs. The cooperation of the Departments of Justice and the Interior – and therefore also the Councillor – will also be warmed up here, so that these transports are made with the accreditations that are determined and ensure that the destination is only the cannabic club, as well as the maximum quantity that can be transported for such a purpose as to remove any link with the black market. The ILP will have to collect important legal resources that guarantee the rights of consumers and also of the same club, as well as the need to limit the amount of cannabis that can be romantic in the club and that will have to be related to the name of the partners that belong to it. The ILP, in its article, proposes that the new partners should wait fifteen days from the moment they register until effective entry, and therefore until consumption at the cannábic club. We have seen this period of time, as it helps to avoid the nameless 'cannabic tourism'. We can't turn Catalonia into the destination of this type of tourism; it's not from the social point of view and it's not the pattern of consumption or tourism that we want. The location of the clubs and their relationship to the sailing must be positive; it is a fundamental element to ensure a good coexistence between an activity and a full sailing process of acceptance of a new reality. The stigmatization of the cannabis consumer also influences the pores of many veins and veins at the time a site of these characteristics is installed. It will take a lot of pedagogy, but it will also apply a strict sanctioning regime to those clubs that do not comply with the rule that we all end up deciding. And, finally, we can also avoid the report that a few days ago brought us the Directorate General for Competition Coordination with the Autonomous Communities and Local Authorities, which reports to the General Secretariat for Local Autonomic Coordination, attached to the Ministry of Public Administration and History ; a report that shows us the legislative contradictions that may exist in some articles that are proposed to the text of the ILP. Just to be able to adapt this law to the current law is also why we want to start the parliamentary process, to be able to count on opinions and contributions from all political groups and also experts on the subject, both from the point of view of protection of health, justice, interior, consumption and also from local governments. I can build a law from the responsibility of all actors, from experience and also from courage. It's all necessary to do so because, beyond a new regulation of cannabic clubs, our country will also take a step forward in how and in what way we face a complex problem: whether from prohibitive postures or from positions based on responsible consumption through agreement, information and awareness. And it is for this reason that it is so important to make a good law as a good rear management and a strict and effective control of the rule that has been applied. And, at this point, he also directly questioned the cannabid federations, which must become the main interested in his compliment. In fact, it is good to create a mixed mechanism for federations and the same government that you will see for the correct application of the law and why you can go to deal with the difficulties that may arise. In short – and I finish – the Socialist Parliamentary Group wants to talk about the issue, to agree and to be brave, and for this reason our vote will be in favour of the processing of the ILP and against the attempt at the totality presented for the Group of the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.230.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreno. Next has the word Albano Dante Fachin, in representation of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.231.0	Thank you, President. I will be brief, because I have been listening carefully to the interventions of the Members who preceded me after the intervention of the proposer of the speech to the totality. A lot of arguments have been put on the table that perfectly know the people who have put forward this ILP. Let me make a mandatory introduction and I would need every time I go up to this Parliament an ILP, especially considering that it still hurts some of us how the ILP of education fell; we hope that this is not the case. But I say it's mandatory to do so because it contributes a lot to pushing the level of debate that many times we have in institutions. Therefore, welcome the fifty-thousand and a few more signatures, welcome the representatives of the people who have mobilised, who oblige us to have a more in-depth and much-needed debate, and oblige us to initiate, as the institution, to this Parliament, a debate that is necessary because many times institutions like these are more representative of the political hypocrisys that exist in our society, rather than representative of the realities that we have in our society. Therefore, the ILP obliges us to have a debate on a reality that exists. Because we can look at another band, but there's a plant that's called cannabis, that exists and grows, right? I can't... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, Germà Bel says she's a fucking mother... well, she's a growing plant; she can grow alone, she can grow when she's grown... but, well, she exists; the plant exists. There's also a lot of people who smoke it, this plant, and that's also a reality and will still feel a reality; after many of us don't smoke anything, so the plant will be there and there will be people who will smoke it. And, therefore, we cannot give the scale to this reality. But above all, we cannot give the schematic to a reality, which is that forty years of war against drugs, of a war against drugs that does not exist at a very concrete political moment, that we should not forget it..., therefore, forty years of frailty; forty years of frailty that have not served at all because it was to serve this war against drugs; even it has had totally contrary effects. And that, forgive me for the expression, does not say "smokers," says the UN, says much involved and very much blamed for these policies. So we can't make it look like this 40-year-old has not happened. And I think it's important to say it and make it clear, because a lot of the arguments put to us by the deputy of the People's Party, who presents this whole issue, a lot of these arguments, come or are an echo of these failed policies. And, therefore, I think it's a good starting point to take into account and leave a feeling of a weakness that I think very few people are going to deny. I will not go against arguments, because I believe, for a band, that Parliament, if this ILP is finally dealt with, will already put on the table all arguments, arguments in favor, against or even all arguments that we do not know. I won't go into the counter arguments because the people who propose this ILP to us, so there are a lot of arguments, and surely during the processing we will all hear. Yes, that's true... the question of the frac is undeniable. The issue of drug trafficking and mafia and the implication of illegality, non-regulation, the war on drugs is a reality. It has been said at some point that they see that they are complaining. Clearly, you can see that it's bar complaints, too. No... and no one doubts that there must be bars. I say this as an example of arguments that we should overcome for the sake – for the sake of the good – of being able to respond to a situation that deserves it as an institution. Therefore, let us hope that today this debate will begin so necessary. That is why we will be voting against the motion for a resolution tabled by the People's Party, and we hope that a debate that makes sense will be exciting, it will be honest, and among all of us we must make it rigorous and what you do, above all – above all – which in theory we must make what we are here, which is solving problems, giving answers and helping everyone who lives better, smokes what smokes or doesn't smoke. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.232.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fachin. Next, the words of Mr. Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.233.0	Thank you, President. I'll do a lot of it, too, on the line, let's just say, some interventions that have been made before, and therefore, I don't want to repeat myself in the arguments. I do want to do it, don't I? , to the question of democratisation which means that it is through an ILP that this initiative comes to the Parliament of Catalonia, and in a process like today's, that it is that of the vote to the totality, on which precisely the Candidature of Popular Unity, in the final plenary, we proposed that when there were popular legislative initiatives, so we can obviate this process and that it goes directly into processing, or says in another way, that you do not exist the possibility that the Parliament will veto the entry of ILP when they come, right? , undersigned for such a number of people as required by law and as is also in this case. Well, everyone I am here knows that the chamber, so it didn't take this opportunity, and so today we're back here voting for the totality to decide whether or not the ILP enters the vote. Therefore, I believe that by consistency, from the CUP and in agreement with what we have defended in the past plenary and we have come always defending, so we will vote against the threat to the whole because we believe that as it is an initiative that sees the road, what we need to do is to process it further, to obey, in some way, the democratic mandate that I support this initiative, and to see if, this Parliament, too, gives it a little more legitimacy, because if not, it seems to the citizen that we are asking him to vote once every four years and that with this he has enough. And certainly what it is, precisely, when we talk about democracy, it is to do many other things, among other things, to give way to popular legislative initiatives, say..., right? , in relation to cannabic associations, or it is said ILP of education. That said, the position of the UPC is frontally contrary to prohibitionism, and, therefore, even though today we do not support this question, let us say it, to the appreciation of the chamber, but we would be in favour of legalization in a clear and full manner of..., not just of the cannabis, right? , but also many other substances. It exists in our society– and I believe that what you have spoken about in..., representing the promoters has used this word– a lot of hypocrisy; institutional hypocrisy that allows some drugs to be legalized and other drugs not legalized, and hypocrisy that puts us in labyrinth about whether the self-consumption is allowed but the sale is forbidden, but the shared self-consumption if it is given in certain requests yes, but it must be proved, and to see who values this if this is so, if this is so. In short, a lot of hypocrisy around this issue and a lot of legal uncertainty – it's not us now that we're going to defend legal security, but – it's precisely that the instrument you're putting on the table I think you're looking for is to create a context of legal security and protect, to clarify, effectively, those situations in which it gives a clear context of self-consumption and, therefore, a context that does not need to be penalised. And I'm saying this because those of us who are dedicated to the practical exercise of the right know that precisely marijuana tenure in public is a situation that generates a great deal of administrative sanctions on the part of the Squadron Mossos – penalties of three hundred euros – or even penalties for criminal sanctions, right? And, therefore, before the absurdity that means that our Administration of Justice, which is already very collapsing, is dedicated to judging the tenacity of half a gram of marijuana or a gram of marijuana, as it happens in our criminal courts, which is, in short, about creating instruments that vagine protecting the self-consumer, that vagine legalizing the consumption of marijuana and, in short, that vagine allow the Administration of Justice to be dedicated to what is to be devoted to and to which the people of this country who are actually concerned to fight against corruption, to fight against abuses of power and to fight against the great interests which, in the end, always escape from the Administration of Justice. Therefore, we will endorse the processing of this ILP, not only in this process but also at the length of its processing and also at the time of its final vote. We think that we need to advocate for a culture of responsibility, that citizens and citizens of this country decide freely what they want to consume and what they don't want to consume and when they want to consume it, starting from the idea that there are various situations, that there are different profiles and that there must be freedom, in this sense, because every one opts for the formula that you want, obviously starting from the promotion of risk minimisation in drug use. But, I insist, starting from the idea of putting in the center the responsibility of the citizens. It's always curious that they are..., saving the differences, but that they are the same ones that today pose the challenge to the totality that in other contexts too, for example, when we talk about the rights of women, they also decide to limit responsibility and decide what they can and can't do with their own. Something must be, in short, of this ideology of the State that wants to protect the responsibility of the citizen and that does not want them autonomous, sovereign and free..., which has also been in this realm of the totality of the PP. Therefore, we call for accountability, risk minimisation and, for us, for a first step in the legalization of all drugs with this processing of today's ILP. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.234.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. Next is the word of Mrs. Alba Vergés, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.235.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, in the first place would like to greet and welcome here, to the Parliament of Catalonia, to the commission promoting the ILP La Rosa Verda, obviously to the person who spoke and who was not present today, Mr Bernat Pellisa, to the federations of associations, to the CatFAC, to the Fedcac, to the platform that was created "We are what we cultivate, and to other people with whom I have worked all these aspects and who have helped me so much to know this world. Obviously, also people who go to government, such as the Deputy Director General of Drugs, who are also very interested in this topic; counsel, counselor and deputies. Since the Junts per el Si Group, we are debating this proposal that is above us through a popular legislative initiative. For this reason, we are grateful that you have promoted this ILP, even though today we do not come to the Faristol to defend the cent_per_cent of its content, in fact, I believe that all parliamentary groups assume that they have controversial points and that, even if they agree with the motivation to make this regulation, there are aspects about which we will have an intensive debate. Aspects that are fully described in the same ILP or aspects that we will also put on the table different groups or also those people who come to bring us..., in the process of issues. This is precisely what we are defending: to do this debate and to pull forward with the processing of the law. It's what I think this Parliament should do, which is Parliament will rise, as it was said this morning, as the legislative chamber it is. We share that it is desirable, and even necessary, to regulate an activity that exists in our society, whether we like it or not. Regular to provide a legal certainty that now does not have any of the actors: obviously consumers, obviously associations and their clubs, the same institutions and all those organizations that have to fight for the compliment of our rights, of all our rights: the individuals, the collectivities, the right to salvation... Because the current legal void generates an unjustifiable insecurity. I believe that the last parliamentary term, which was also very intense, we did something important in this respect: we managed to maintain a sufficient amount of broad consensus for an approach to associations of people who consume cannabis in our society. Seeing the concern that came to us from the same associations and also from the municipalities where they register to do these activities, the 15th generation of 2015 passed a resolution of the Department of Health for which we approved criteria relating to public health effects in relation to the associated consumption of cannabis and also the hygienic and health conditions that would have to be demanded for the authorization of this activity by our assemblies in Catalonia in the framework of the legislation that exists. And he thanked us for working with the federations and the Catalonia Public Health Agency and knowing that it was only a step forward. Obviously, all this work and majority consent was insufficient to be able to bring here, driven by the same Parliament, a proposal for this regulation, but that does not mean that it was useless. I believe that it allowed us to have a number of Members and Members – and some of them are here – to know well how many associations work in our country, from a point of view of a great deal of social wealth that we have in Catalonia: why they were formed; why they assume these risks that they are currently taking to develop an activity in which they believe; why they have advanced from a long time ago, now, working with codes of good practices: with self-regulation of the quality of the cults, of the substances, with democratization of the same associations, always seeking the fit of the municipalities and of the society; and also allowing us to know why it is so important from a point of view of public health to have the proper collection of the achievements of the association. We need these strategies and associations and their clubs are a brutal opportunity to get started. And we have to stop being law prisoners. This morning we also talked about it: right or right, what do we sort? A_mark, a few pairs, which is the right, or do we sort out want to guarantee the rights, individual freedom, the collective, the right to salvation, which is basic and important in our society? Prohibitionist strategies have proved ineffective. Not just here, but the world. That mark that was to lead to a reduction in drug use and a reduction in illegal drug markets did not complete with any of its objectives. We are now close to exploring other lives inspired by those that have succeeded and adapted to our 21st century society. The same approach to public health policies of drugs that have shown benefits and allowed to decrease in many cases the incidence of many diseases and the better quality of life of users. No judgment and no harm. Other world-rights are currently exploring legislation respecting cannabis, each in a differentiated way, according to the reality of each place. We have examples like that of Uruguay and different states of Washington and Colorado, in the United States, like the most recent. And here, for the time being, what do we find? Where is the resolution that spoke before the 2015 Genre's Department of Salvation? In an administrative dispute of the Attorney General of the State accusing the Department of Salutation of wanting to promote the consumption of cannabis. And where is the Navarra law – which here we have some representative – governing associations? So, to the Constitutional Court. Is it true that the year 2016 has to send us a report to Parliament saying that we cannot regulate it because we have a whole series of laws that deal with how the plagues of Egypt are? The Narcotics Act is the year 1967, and it has to condition our policies and our approach that we want to do in a society of the 21st century? It has been so long since then, it has been so long; in fact, it has been so long as the person who signed the laws in 1967 died in bed forty years ago, even though, as we see, some still claim to condition us all the debates under the Law on Narcotic Drugs, Criminal Codes, Law on Citizen Security, etc., and to say only, so alone, that here we have no competition and that we will not go to the Congress of Deputies. I am also as the cannabis was included in the international conventions of 61, 88, because reading a little and documenting you and making a little the idea of reality, which is more political than not technical, and how they have always been used as a mantra for all prohibitive and ineffective legislation. Fortunately, the international debate is very open now, because many years have passed and because it has proved to be ineffective policies. Criminalization and criminalization do not help to intervene, they do so, they do not debate a social reality that exists, and they do not allow solutions to be applied. The other time, when we were able to make the resolution, I said it was not desirable to leave the back door of the cannabid associations open. We need to address, too – and now we have the agriculture advisor – the subject of culture. Self-cultivation is very important, and transport is also a derivative. Regular cultivation allows limitations to be placed on the activity of associations to give guarantees on the substance that is consumed. And the associations of this rich, social fabric that we have in our country as non-profit entities and their federations are willing to work together with the institutions to develop and deploy these damage reduction strategies. So, enjoy it. We interact, like they said, don't we? , we interact with a living sector – what you said. We can lay down public health criteria, we can increase knowledge about the risks and consequences that consumption can generate on the physical and mental health of consumers; we can reduce the side effects of prohibitionism – corruption, money laundering, lack of control over substance; we can exercise a defence of the rights of users and of the entire society, with transference, and with increase in knowledge, and with access to good information. Separation of markets; it is very important to reduce the black market from substances, but it is still more important to separate the illegal market from the cannabis market from other substances. There are proposals from regulatory councils to treat levels of concentration of the different activs of cannabis, with quality controls, the presence of fungi, the concentration, obviously, of THC, information, recommendations, identification of problematic or abusive consumption. And, for the time being, while there is no regulation of the therapeutic area – because it would want to distinguish very well what is the playful and therapeutic area – associations can represent a safer and more controlled access to the substance for those therapeutic consumers, who, if not, are at the expense of a black market. According to the rule that arises, we must incorporate the municipal world here, and also avoid hyperdensity, and above all avoid leaving the assemblies in the current situation, and also help them in their competition. More training for problem self-detection, and working with the idea of shared use, without ever spreading it to third people. I'm done. Regular cannabic associations allow us this approach, which is very complicated if we don't do this first step. And all of this addresses the need, first of all, because the long-term policies so far have not complemented the objectives – many judicious and few benefits – and, second of all, to keep a society more informed, more aware of the risks and, consequently, more free. It is an opportunity, which may end up in the Constitutional Court, but which we have done, and which we have done since this Parliament will rise. Like the other time, it'll be a step further than I'm sure it won't go away. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.236.0	Thank you, Mrs Vergés. Once the debate is over, we shall proceed to the vote on the whole. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. Please, take the seats. The vote begins. The total was rejected by 9 votes in favour, 122 against and no abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] As the challenge to totality has been rejected, this initiative will continue its processing. [[Proposed maximum response time guarantee law in healthcare (totality debate)]] [[202-00022/11]] The new item on the agenda is: total debate on the Proposal for a law guaranteeing maximum response time in healthcare. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules, he presented the initiative, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez. They ask, please, the deputies and deputies, to leave in a hurry and in silence from the room. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.237.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, those who remain in the Chamber, I see that it is certainly more interested in the full route for the process than the problem of waiting lists in the Catalan public health system. [[some applause]] But in any case...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.238.0	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.239.0	... they will allow me to defend this proposal of law, also, there, with a hint of nostalgia, because until this morning the proposals of law or laws that might come out of this Parliament had a value, which, at this time, I believe have been devalued enough, because disobedience prevails more quickly than the guarantee that the laws can give to our legal order. In any case, this bill's proposal is not new; it's a bill's proposal that we were going to present just over a year ago, that it was about to prosper if it wasn't for the Convergence and Union and Left Republican groups at that time to present an item to the totality that prospered under the argument that it was an election law proposal, because two, three months later, or one and a half months after that debate, there were municipal elections. We thought that now that we don't have any elections in sight, so it was a good time for the parliamentary groups to consider the opportunity to take action so that we could end up with a difficult problem that we have with public health in Catalonia, which is the problem of waiting lists. So, let's say, a little philosophical, waiting lists in public health systems of health are 'normal' – between comets – because they are, in a way, a regulatory factor in demand. We have had an opportunity to talk about this issue with the same advisor, and I think we agree: the zero waiting list will never exist, but it is also true that too long waiting times, such as we now have, at this time, affect the constitutional and statutory right – I don't know if you have any value for some of you – to the protection of salvation, and that causes injustice and prevents the universality of the public health system. Without wishing to open the debate on public and private sanitation, we do want to remind them that at this time 28 percent of Catalans have double health coverage – public and private – and this situation allows them to avoid waiting lists. Another situation is also given, probably less understandable, but it turns out that there are those who can also avoid waiting lists opting for private activities in centers and public resources. But, I insist, I do not want to open the debate on public health and private health, but I simply put these examples to show that, in fact, the lists waiting for public health are unfair in the health system, and that some citizens, some Catalans, have a faster access to the right of health protection than others. Some could certainly propose a ban on private sanitation, because then there aren't a few troublemakers but we're all at it. What we're trying to do is that public health users can take advantage of those who have access to private sanitation. Therefore, I believe that the responsibility we have is to demand the best of public health management, to make it truly equitable and universal. In what situation do we find ourselves at this time? Home, it's not easy to explain it exactly, but you can say, you can donate a few data that allows us to illustrate what this situation is – it's data from December 2015, the latest available data. Overall, there are 926,531 Catalans in waiting lists. That it is also curious the composition of the waiting lists: before arriving at the waiting list for a surgical intervention, it is necessary to pass through the waiting list of diagnostic tests; but before arriving at the diagnostic tests, it is also necessary to pass through the waiting list to the specialists, who will be the ones who prescribe the diagnostic tests so that in the end they can decide whether to have a surgical intervention or not. So we're not talking about a waiting list, but we're talking about a build-up of waiting lists. So, well, the waiting list of visits to specialists is located in 656,924 patients and 163 days of midjana, when the reference time set for the same counseling is between thirty and ninety days. The waiting lists for diagnostic tests are in 117,235 patients and seventy-one days of midjana. Surgical interventions in terms of referral, 119,263 patients and 191 days of mitjana. Finally, time-guaranteed surgical interventions are approximately 31,000 patients, highlighting knee prostheses with 186 days of mitjana. Finally, I leave oncology and heart surgery at the end, which, obviously and fortunately, for its gravity are much more agile, but we believe that they should still be more agile than they are, since in heart surgery, which is of a certain urgency, we find it excessive to pass 41 days of middle age. In this way, we wanted to scale up the problem of waiting lists; but, actually, in these questions the statistics have two very different cares, and it is that we can see..., I don't know whether positive or not, but we can see that 80_percent of the patients are atticed in a reasonable term. But this cannot satisfy us, this does not serve to justify that there are 20_percent of patients who are not within a reasonable time frame. For the patient who triages a year to be able to attend for a specialist the degree of incompliment is 100_per_cent, not 20_per_cent. Therefore, we believe that there is work to be done and to be free to run. From the group that gives support to the Government – other groups, the Government, do not support it – they will say to us: "We have a plan. And, actually, counselor, his department... you're the plan counselor. And a little while ago – a little while ago – the government approved the Comprehensive Plan for the best list of health care waiters. That we have our vision respect this plan and that is why we asked for the councillor's appearance in committee to be able to debate on this plan, and I hope that we have the opportunity to do so as soon as possible, if it is not that the legislature ended in a hasty way; but, with this, we continue to have more sense that this plan for the better of the lists of health hopes was part of another plan named 'Rather because the UPC approves the assumptions, that neither has worked. What is, at this time, the reference regulation and how has it evolved in the matter of waiting lists? In summary, in Catalonia, we have decree 354 of the year 2002, which was the one that established – the establishment because it has been modified – the maximum terms of access, and, until the past year, until the April of the past year, the establishment..., at the margin of oncological and cardiological interventions – at the margin of these interventions – established a maximum guaranteed time of up to a total of 107 surgical interventions, of certain groups, but 107 surgical interventions. What happened to last year's April? So they haven't disappeared 79, only 28. The government of that moment said: "No, we have increased the number of interventions in time to 27 or 28. No, what we've done is not raise it, it's kept reducing it: from 109 to 28. And the rest of the interventions go from having guaranteed time – and here the terminology is very important – to having terms of reference. And in some cases, even, they go from 180 days guaranteed to 365 days of reference. Obviously, it's very different to have a guarantee of something than having something like reference. A lowering of the self-requirement level and a lowering of the right to the salvation of the city council. What do we expect with this law proposal? To change this, and we want to do so not through a decree, as we have in force, of 2002, which with a councillor's order reduces the rights of the citizenry of the night a day through an order, but rather we want to regulate the rights of the citizenry through a law that gives more guarantees. We assume, because, of course, as some parliamentary groups consider the law, we are beginning to have doubts. If I may, without prejudice to the overall content of the bill's proposal and the work that assumed its drafting... – and, if I may, I would like to refer to the Member who, at the time, was in charge of the drafting of this bill's proposal, Eva García –, we want to say what that is for us is relevant. Once in a while, too, to settle the debate. We do not intend in this debate to demand all the time and hours and minutes that you can set the law's proposal in relation to the proceedings; we want there to be a debate in relation to this. But the debate we want there to be is that it is important to frame it into two important facts. A first fact: we change the terms of reference for maximum guaranteed time. Let us stop saying to the citizenry: "More or less you can be intervened in this term. And let's say to the citizenry: "You have right to be spoken with as much as possible in this term. There are two very different concepts, the reference and the maximum guaranteed time. And according to the important, irrefutable question in the proposal of the law that we present: we raise the standard rank of the guarantee of an order of the councillor, with all respect, to a law of the Parliament. And from these two elements we are willing to talk about everything and negotiate everything – everything. We are perfectly aware that if this proposal of law succeeds, tomorrow passed – neither tomorrow nor from here to six months – we will have solved the problem of waiting lists. But we believe that we will have decisions that are aimed at solving the problem; we will have decisions to convey a message to the citizenry that their problem concerns us, we want to address it and we want to resolve it. And this is our commitment: to solve the problem that at this time affects 926,000 Catalans and Catalans who are hoping that public sanitation will give an answer to their health problems. And that's what we're asking you – that's what we're asking you –: we're going through this bill of law, we're negotiating it, we're coming to the necessary agreements; but we're moving together the message to the citizenry that their salvation problems are also our problems. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.240.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Then, in order to defend the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, has the word "Laïlla Assumption".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.241.0	Thank you, President. Today, for the deputy who talks to them, going back to the Faristol to talk about this law proposal is a deja-vu. He said what he presented and defended the law's proposition, just a year ago and three months ago there was also a text here at the Faristol that was curiously carrying the same name, and also presented for the same parliamentary group. I can imagine, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that this legislature is going to be long – long; I can imagine it – but this does not mean that the rest of us are changing the positions of one year for another and less when the text, moreover, kept aspects, already, today, that are obsolete, as, for example... Only that we have updated the last point of the proposal of the law, which refers to the precedents referring to this proposal of the law of guarantee of maximum time of response to health care, no longer only to the Law 21/2010, of 7 July, of access to the health care assistance of the Catalan Health Service, nor of the Decree 354/2002 of 24 December for which these terms are established, of the maximum of access to certain surgical procedures, of the Catalan Health Service, without incorporating the two orders that you here in the Faristol have quoted, but that, obviously, therefore, in the text, that is the same, as we have presented all the present, but not the previous, guarantee of the previous, the previous, the previous, the previous, the previous, the previous, the previous, the previous, the previous, the previous, the previous, the previous, the previous, the previous, the previous, the previous, the previous, the previous, the previous, the previous, the last, the previous, the previous, the previous, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the reference, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the reference, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the reference, the last, the last, the last, the last, the access, the last, the last, the last, the access, the last, the last, the access, the access, the access, the last, the access, the access, the last, the last, the last, the last, the access, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the access, the last, the last, the access, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the access to the access to the last, the access to the last, the last, the last, the last, the access to the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, In order not to speak, too, of a _real decree, in this case, of the Spanish Government, 1039, of 2011, which also establishes which is the mark of access to the health services of the National Health Service; which, moreover, already substitutes, should replace in the text that you have presented, the reference that they make in article 5 of Decree 1030 of the year 2006. And, of course, I already understand that the whole plan is not normal, but it is functional for Catalonia. But I will already tell you that the arguments for defending this issue are totally not political arguments, but they are also, and basically, technical arguments because they are management arguments, better health care arguments, and also the services of our health care system, which I already admit, if I want, that it is perfectable, that it is a system that needs constant updating, but that it is also admirable and admired, and that, moreover, it has great health outcomes. And entering directly into the text of the bill's proposal, you say, at the talk of motius – and that I do read literally –: "In Catalonia health legislation, the ordering of the health system and the management of health resources have proved insufficient to guarantee the quality of the system to people who have recognised the right to access health coverage in the public sector. And a clear example of this situation is the actual state of the waiting lists. Home, for one band, we have insufficient funding, talked and debated and explained in this faristol, on the part of the Spanish State, that obviously I will not enter there; but that, moreover, the Spanish State..., all those finalist parties destined only for the salvation sector in the last period have been many of them reduced to zero. The percentage of health transfers to the autonomous communities of the general assumptions of the State from 2011 to 2015 has decreased by 91,9_per_cent, to 92_per_cent. And I'm not talking about age-old things, that don't matter, especially that they can't relate to the health situation in our country, because I'm talking about rare diseases, I'm talking about the National AIDS Platform, I'm talking about emerging and re-emerging diseases, I'm talking about everything that refers to promotion and prevention in health, about health information systems, that here you also ask for things... Home, a little bit of rigour. For a band, this underfunding, which is demonstrable and which we have explained enough in this faristol. And, in other words, have we destroyed their health care system? So, between one thing and the other, I think that, at least, I want to believe that this is a frivolity and that it is the result of ignorance and not of bad faith. Because, look, the current regulations that refer to the lists of waits precisely already include a maximum of terms of access to healthcare, and, in fact, it is the orders that you mentioned before – that you have forgotten and that you have explained here to the Faristol – that what they do is to extend the guaranteed procedures, do not reduce them – the amplified ones –, above all those that have an important urgency, because they have a direct impact on the clinical situation and in the spirit of the person's life, that we are going to have..., guaranteed procedures, to have fourteen to hold twenty-seven, and always according to the criteria of clinical recovery. And they also set maximum reference terms for all the remaining surgical interventions, which pose as much as a year, and for diagnostic tests and visits to external consultations, a maximum of nine days. And the rest of the surgical interventions, those that are not urgent, are also prioritized according to the clinical criteria and with the objective that no one hopes more than a year. That is to say, we are moving from prioritizing procedures to prioritizing people; we are talking that before the procedures, which were monitored, were selected for the volume of people who were waiting at the time to set up these maximum waiting terms and that now what is done is to do it on clinical relevance criteria. And, therefore, the oncological procedures, the heart surgery valve and coronary, and also those that generate a significant degree of disability at the time that the person can maintain his daily life; I am talking, for example, about knee, malice or cataracts. And, therefore, and what is very relevant is that we are talking about terms of reference based on clinical criteria and also social criteria. I, at first, told them that together for Yes we want to preserve our Catalan health system, and improve it as much as we can, but preserving those aspects that for us are nuclear in our system and that they are those that guarantee good attention to the citizenry, that, moreover, they make it a professional of the highest quality, with structures and technology that are high and, above all, expanding its citizen participation and always with the highest transparency criteria. And to do that, in Catalonia, moreover, we have a proper health system, which is different from that of the rest of the State, with a range of different providers than what they do is to ensure this good quality care within the territory. But you don't just present this proposal of the law here, but you also go back to the rest of the state, especially in those communities where you don't rule, and I would advise you that if you are so good, this proposal of the law, the application also there where you rule, because the data..., in view of the results, I certainly advise you to do so because I would agree with them. I speak, for example, surgical interventions: in Catalonia, the maximum terms are 90 days; Madrid, 180; La Rioja, 100; Castella i Lleó, 180; Múrcia, 150, and we can follow. And here too... all those groups that here, sometimes, point out when they are opposed to letting the following five texts, which also review the rest of the State that their counterparts have done with the same text that you have been replicating. I used to talk about a model and I think that Catalonia has a model that combines public and private providers, that guarantees good health care, that covers the needs of the population's salvation and always guarantees a system of public attention, equity, quality and universal. But here you incorporate a third variable, which is to say: that which is not attached to the Catalan public network, which can go to the private – which here, obviously, everyone is on its right, would just miss – or can be held outside the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, now, that is – and now sees the best –, always paying the costs of all this, in charge of the Catalan Health Service. Home, I feel like Catalonia is the autonomous community first or second, according to the cases, recipient of cases outside of people from other autonomous communities to attend, man, I think before it would be fine, before applying this measure or just proposing it, that it is possessed at the side of the government to claim that it is paid, precisely, the expense that generates attending, as we do, the people who come from the rest of the state. Because, therefore, we are not talking about smaller numbers, because we are talking about 45_percent of displacements to hospital, basically, transplants; a 22_percent in diagnostic tests and outpatient oncology, hemodynamics, dialysis, and a 33_percent in referral centers. And in these last few years, there's been a lot of debate, that, and, well, they've changed their ways so that they can pass this payment to the communities. And so they have done since 2013, and the government of the State has gone hand in hand and, therefore, has passed to the autonomy of this expense, but it has never economically compensated the autonomy to be able to face, precisely, these payments. And here in Catalonia, we're talking about 22 million euros. Therefore, stand by the government to defend all this and you will see how things will go much better. And, listen, you ask a lot more information – also in this proposal for law – about waiting lists of hospitals, professional centers, which the same patient knows where..., until they ask to create, therefore, a register of people on waiting lists. In Catalonia, if you look at a little bit and browse through the department's website, through the Generalitat website, you will find that, in the band of the results central reports, balance centres, flows, various information on this topic, so there is also the six-monthly publication of the data from the lists of expectations updated to the Health web and, moreover, in a format of open lists, that they can work and that they can draw much more concrete conclusions because the grace of this document, precisely – and I did not bring them here an example –, [[the speaker shows a full camera]] It's that, in the PDF clipping band, they can take Excel and, besides, they have it for health regions, they have it for hospital units, they have the time to expect, how many men, how many women, the time already, the time for surgical procedures and the drops of this waiting list. And, in addition, this has been updated every six months – now the latest update will be published – and, therefore, there is a register almost every day of which is the situation and the state in each of the units of the hospital services in our territory. But, more than anything else, each person in his or her own folder, in my greeting folder, can also know who his or her situation is in our country's waiting list and can do so individually and, obviously, and precisely because it's personal, there's no access to anything, only the patient who's located on this waiting list. To remind you that this is a register of lists of waits and that the only difference with what you propose in this proposal of law is precisely that what the Catalan Health Service has is that it is decentralized, and, moreover, located in each of the units of the hospitals. I think that with these arguments you can hear why we keep – just like we did a year ago – this whole issue and why we ask the rest of the parliamentary groups that support us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.242.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Laïlla. Then there's the words of Mr. Santi Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.243.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, well, by chance, orders 101 and 102 of the year 2015 were signed for Councillor Boi Ruiz the same day that the People's Party's Lists of Expectations Bill was debated in this Parliament. Eventually, it was exactly the same day. They were published nine days later, April 30, but they were signed the same day that there was that debate in this Parliament. But it is fixed that in the proposal of the law we are already talking about the import and the relevancy of the guaranteed times before the reference time, when precisely what the adviser does with the signature of the orders, which you mentioned and which I also mentioned in my initial intervention, is precisely the opposite, is to reduce the hundred and nine interventions that there were in time of guarantee..., to reduce them to twenty-seen, and the rest to spend them in time of reference. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, that's it. And I have orders to the escho, I, if you want, I will teach them, if you..., to the council did not explain this, but that's it. It is precisely the same day that the effect is produced contrary to that which pursues the proposition of law, which are more assured and less references, and it is the same day when exactly the opposite happens. So, that's what we're asking for today with even more reason than when we did it in April, because at that time we still didn't know that this change of warranties for references was over. Right now. Now we know it's a year ago that changed the guarantees for references, but it's that for the citizen the guarantees still mean something, the references, no. It's a simple orientation. You told me about the infra-financing of salvation, of sanitation. Look, we can agree, but we don't agree on the diagnosis. You will say: "It is the fault of others! I will say to him: "It is his fault. Prioritzin, you, well, expenses. You don't make me tell him what it takes to dedicate them to salvation and to reduce lists of waiters, because they know it well. You don't make me say it because we're not tired, to say the least. Prioritzin appropriately the expenses. I'll tell you what: even if in the Project of Presumptions that you have submitted to Parliament for the year 2016 you have correctly prioritized expenses and gone to safety, perhaps today we would not be without presuppositions. Maybe some opposition group would have voted for these assumptions. But as they did not, they find today: one, with the infra-financing of salvation; two, without presuppositions. I imagined that you were bringing this to me – I don't know why – of "we have destroyed Catalan sanitation. No, Miri, do you know who destroyed the Catalan toilet? Innova, Prat, Maintained, Bagó, Wise, Traiber... Traiber! Fallen pretensions! About that the surgical interventions of knee prosthesis are the ones that trigate the most – 186 days of midjana – above, presthesis fallen with the connivance of not knowing how many people. This is what destroys Catalan sanitation – this is what destroys Catalan sanitation. And you go here to talk to me about Madrid, Castella and Lleó, Múrcia... I have not done it expressly, it is that, look, I am a humble deputy in the Parliament of Catalonia and my job is to control the Government of Catalonia. If you have any of this left, present 'his elections in Madrid, Castella and Lleó or Múrcia, but do not come to the Parliament of Catalonia to talk to us about Madrid, Castellà and Lleó and Múrcia. Talk about Catalonia and what the Government of Catalonia does for the citizens of Catalonia. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, because it's a way to talk, Vice President. Is it also forbidden to raise your voice? [[Widow's remorse.]] And you tell me... I can't take it seriously, can I? And I will not take it seriously, but yes, man, I will put into evidence what I think is a barbarity, which you said: the problem of Catalan sanitation is the citizens of the rest of the State who come to Catalonia? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes! That's what you said! This cannot be the problem of Catalan sanitation. Or is it that the Catalans don't use the sanitation of the rest of the communities? No, man, no! You said it – you said it. And, therefore, I put it in replenishment, because I think it's barbarity. Finally, patient information is..., obviously it's important – obviously – but it's not decisive. Let the patients know that they will be operating for a year, not consoles, not much less, but that what causes it is that they seek alternatives to public health so that they can be intervened and carry out their right to health protection. Precisely, what we want to avoid with this purpose of law is that these things happen this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.244.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, to fix its position, has the word Mr Jorge Soler, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.245.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. They say that life has to do three things: plant a tree, have a child and write a book. Undoubtedly, it is necessary to do many more, just as in politics it is not enough alone, so working with good values, such as humility, knowing how to listen or prioritise well and convincing our Member every day. Thinking about this and the subject we are dealing with, he reflected on the experiences that most mark the life of a doctor. I will never forget the first feeling of seeing what is really a human thing in between; nor the first time I felt a child crying, even with the umbilical cord connected to the mother – and I am sure that many of you, therefore, know well of what feeling I speak of –; and I still see the face of the first patient, when already in my exercise as a doctor I accompanied him in the process of his death. These are times when a doorway to the length of your career and professional life, and they conform you to the person you end up feeling. And that's why when I hear talk, or even when I speak here, in this Parliament, with all the professional respect that I have for my profession and this institution, I often come across patients' engraved care when they were expected to be at the hospital during months. I remind people well with their patience, with the uncertainty of what their future would be, of putting it to diagnostics, and especially I remember a very usual situation in the difficult pocket of a doctor. It's about when a patient knocks at the door and says, "The schedule doesn't come out of a visit for the specialist to what you've sent me from six to six months. What would you say before that? What would you do if the person who trusted you as a professional tells you that? It is not the health personnel who will continue to do their professional work against the current, it is not he who will not see their work impossible with a complex system with which I will continue to report. In various interventions in this House I spoke of the great waiting list in Catalonia to be visited at public hospitals, I showed here the names of evidence on the waiting list and said that the situation is worse every day and that it is alarming. We are aware that we have an indecent list of expectations and that resources are not being properly managed. It may urgently decrease patient expectations and not continue to maintain a retail policy where workers are mistreated and users have clear access barriers that generate great inequalities in health. That transparency in the management of the waiting list, the one we agreed on the other day in the parliamentary presentation of the Health Plan, which is not an absolute minor issue, and that we should soon be presented with assumptions, counsel, which have a clear priority for a public health system, without ambiguity, such as those that were here a while ago in that stellar representation on the public health system that did not end in motion, because, again, speaking to speak was the objective. At these times we have no presuppositions, and neither have things changed in the way of mistreating professionals. Back there, I reported that they're refusing visits without patient care, and nothing's changed. I said this is an inherited political order from the previous government that no one has yet revoked. So I ended up with that phrase that said, "Medicine must be human or it won't be medicine, but we don't see any change to humanize it." Continued statements to the media about actions that later do not end in real changes for the benefit of citizens not only lead us to demotivation, but also to frustration and people think that what we're doing here is talking to talk. Because all that some say here is often Lampedusian prayer: to say that everything will change because, in the end, everything is exactly the same. It should not be forgotten that it is the Generality that manages the Catalan health system, where unfortunately large cases of corruption abound. At the time that there were details that abused users and bled the workers, at the same time was plotting the escandol of Innova. It's here in Catalonia where last week we had to compare shape..., a counselor to talk about the Histia case, with awards to say and donations to the government party. This is where we have ambulances closed to car drivers, and the only compliment of the parliamentary mandate to respect has been to remove a trust of Convergence to the EMS, but no structural or organizational changes. It is here that two directors of the CatSalut, in Carles Manté and Josep Prat, are prosecuted for corruption while they were detailing the Catalan health system and the sound of public workers and making us look at Madrid. Some, intentionally, saw the moon of Madrid all day long because the Catalans did not look at the one who was grabbing the covetous hand of those who saw it. How they take the hair and money to Catalans. And let's go back to the topic we're dealing with, to the waiting lists, where there's a lot of writing, but there are documents that I think need to put here in particular value, such as the one published by the Council of Metges's Colleges of Catalonia a few days ago; they're four pages of obliging reading for anyone who wants to strictly deal with the subject. The one that is already perfectly written cannot try to improve it, only advertise it, so let me read point 6 textually: "So that I can make an objective assessment of the lists of waits, both global and for specific pathological processes, that I have a system of consensus and clinical priority. The preparation of the list must be based on stable, solid and transparent information systems and analysis methods. This is the principle of transparency that I was talking about the other day at the Health Board and where I want to stop now. Citizens raise this issue of transparency very clearly, and I want to introduce it into all the debates on the waiting list. We do not have to admit derivations in centres with no legal basis if there is no legal basis, so often the advisor of "principles of preference repeats, but incorporating it that no derivations are admitted without detailed quality control. Add this, counselor, please. We do not have Catalonia, nor the rest of the autonomous communities, where Ciutadans is also complaining, a portal of transparency in which we can find in an accessible and comparable way the data of resources available both in primary care as in the hospital and in the management, also, of health emergencies. In this way, with this comprehensive portal of transparency, we could have for each of the managers and for each public center their expenditure, disaggregations up to the level of service, with accurate information on human resources that allows, thus, to compare each of the managers, to have data to evaluate the main chapters of the expenditure with comparable quality of care and indicators of patient safety. This seems like a right of the citizenry to us, and this is much more ambitious than what the Member we have now was explaining to us. I would like to pay attention to the two sentences that I will read literally from the document of the Official College of Metges; jump to read its great conclusion – I do comets –: "In no case will the guaranteed time for the fourteen procedures become the only management objective of the waiting list. Therefore, the basic objective should always be to deal first with those ills which, due to their chronic, personal and social needs, most need it. You know that Ciutadans has put forward a bill in this Parliament to reduce waiting lists, and he has done a focus on professionals and the central axis of people, of citizens. We prefer to recognize the complexity of the topic and work in a global and progressive way. We consider that the first measure to be taken by the Public Administration that provides services is to identify and proactively recognize the existence of waiting lists in all their dimensions. And in order to do so, the second measure must be to publish transparently all the waiting times for each health care service, not just for certain processes, and thus be able to compare and evaluate the waiting list throughout the whole package. Of the measures they propose, the single register seems uncertain to us. In fact, what we propose in our proposed law is an expanded version of this measure. Thus, our proposal links an undoubted right of the patient to know at all times the place he occupies to the waiting list. The solution to the waiting list is not, therefore, the wording of Article 9 of the system of guarantees that you present, to introduce a right to the rescue to the user who is denied the maximum waiting time to pay private attention, nor diets to the companions of the malalts. This is not the measure of efficiency to make the public health system sustainable, because it will increase, as at least, the cost of benefits, so as not to take advantage of the bargaining power held by the same Administration. President, in conclusion, we would like the debate to continue, and that is why we are not going to present the whole issue. MPs and MPs, we believe that we need to reform the health system and ensure without cracks the fairness of our patients' access. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.246.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Soler. Then comes the words of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.247.0	Thank you, President. I will limit myself..., because I believe that today the debate has always been made wider, or with general references or..., as I said this morning in Miquel Iceta, "I will not tell anyone; therefore, I will limit myself to speaking today of this proposal, of the law guaranteeing the maximum response time in healthcare, this proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group. The same Member of Parliament, Santi Rodríguez, has said that this proposal for law has already been brought into the current legislature, that it has not been dealt with or discussed, because it has succeeded in addressing the totality presented by the Group, at that time, we would say, before Convergence and Union, and I believe that with the support of the Republican Left. At that session the Socialist Group, our deputy, Núria Segú, defended that the proposal continued its processing. I make my own arguments that she gave at the time: it is important to open the debate, it is important the debate, and, therefore, I say, we are not only talking about the guarantee time, but above all about establishing the guarantee time that generates rights. And I believe and she herself defended that she could argue, that she could do it through a law... we had more chances of guaranteeing rights. Because, when time becomes not a reference but a guarantee, it generates rights and, as any right, it is claimable and, for many rights in itself, much more guaranteed. Defending the continuity of processing does not in any way imply sharing all the extremes of the proposal that is presented today. And in our case, there are some of the things we don't share, but in order to be able to talk about it, they can get better... and put a thread in the needle. By means of this proposal for law, the People's Group does not claim to innovate the legal order, but simply to raise to law the material contents that are currently regulated in various provisions that have already been spoken here, not normative. What he wants is, and we've said, to regulate a right. We could say that it is not a proposal of law, but it should be remembered that the different governments, and this government, too, have incomplete the motions that on the lists of waiting and guaranteed waiting times have approved this Parliament of Catalonia. Maybe opening the debate on the grounds could make things complicated. I would like to remind you that at the beginning of this parliamentary term the Socialist Group has already presented a motion on the maximum guarantee time for access to healthcare services which are the responsibility of the Catalan Health Service. And we did it because waiting lists are one of the most worrying aspects of Catalonia's citizenship; only to listen to it, or to listen to the words of Congressman Jorge Soler, from his own experience. They always tell us that satisfaction questions are good. Someday they will have to explain to us or to say clearly that the satisfaction questions are fan when they have already attended you, and so once upon a time, you usually don't want to remember the bad times you've been through before. The counselor has expressed several times that all public health funding systems have waiting lists. The figures that Congressman Rodriguez has given are telling. And therefore, bearing in mind that after there is a name and a surname, of each of these names or of this number, on the waiting list, we believe that we cannot console ourselves. It is not this, the debate that we want to hold on finance, but basically how long the citizens are expected to wait for today's day because they follow the primary, the specialist, the diagnostic test or for an intervention, which means that we have to wait for the sum of all these waiting times. The important thing is to compute – and so does the proposal – already the first steps as in time to wait, the waiting time guarantees from the first visit to the primary until the intervention, if that is the case. Accessibility to the system – that's what we're talking about – is now a sign of hope. Basically – and here it has already been repeated on the part of some intervention – the modification that Councillor Boi Ruiz made the year 2015 made that the majority of interventions passed in time of reference, and they are not innocent people. It counts on the words, as Mr Rodriguez said before, because that means that even all the interventions that had been scheduled before had lost their ability to demand the guarantee time. And, besides, it extended the time frame of reference, with which it made it harder. But to me what seems harder to me is that one incorporates in the times of guarantee all those pathologies that, for its natural, have the right guarantee of priority treatment. No one has ever doubted that oncology, cardiovascular disease and other diseases were on the margins of the waiting lists; rather than on the margins, they had a protocol and a priority treatment protocol. So putting him in when he didn't play was the worst he could do. The proposal wants to recover – and give it law rank –, so this right, because everything right generates demand, and that's what we think is worth pulling forward. I have already said that the Socialist Group does not share some very concrete aspects, that our alternatives always go through the public network, to address territorial inequities, to attend to the proximity of services to people and, therefore, to approach them and, above all, that there are good information and transparency services. As the strategic plans announced by the advisor are not material, we believe it is important to continue, as I said, with this process and to be able to carry out the debate. And in this sense, therefore, our vote will be contrary to the totality that has been presented today. I said before that I did not want to make any reference, but Mrs Laïlla said that the People's Party would be extended by this term. But it seemed to me that maybe it wasn't the most up-to-date comment, because I think that what's going to be long, and a lot, is the time that citizens are waiting for to be treated from the first to their intervention. And, therefore, this is the time that we should give it away. He also said that there are some groups that vary in position in the government or in opposition, because, anyway, I can tell you, if I refer to my group, that we have not varied in position. We in the previous legislature voted in favour of dealing with this proposal, but above all, if we endorse this procedure, it is because of the one thing we do not have, the government or the opposition, it is the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.248.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Escarp. [[Some applause.]] Next is the words of Mrs Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.249.0	Thank you, President. Look, we'll start, strangely, contemporating with the People's Party, with its law text and with the proposal, which we find interesting in some respects. And I think that we certainly find this interesting, in many respects, a good part of the citizenry, even those who are making a speech to the totality or who will support the speech to the totality today. And it's good that we open debate respect the guarantees of the waiting list for the citizens of Catalonia in medical tests, in medical visits, in surgical interventions, in emergency care, in healthcare care. And it's good that we're talking about the guarantees of citizens' rights in health care. And, therefore, it must be gratified that we are opening this debate, nor that it is based on a bill submitted to us by the People's Party. It is necessary, moreover, that we open this debate when we have so much time in which it is degrading and degrading and degrading the health care and the guarantee of health care rights to the citizenry; a degradation that is caused by retailing, especially economic retailing, and by the decapitalisation that has been made of public health with these retailing assumptions; retailing of resources that have reached an inexhaustible point that has obviously led to the degradation of the service – and is to be recognized –; degradation that 2011 abruptly shot down the surgical hope lists in Catalonia, and that then pales itself as to the surgical hope lists, which are massively controlled by the disparate, but often misguided, logicists. And, therefore, we have not solved the problem. The presuppositions that began in 2010, and especially brutally attacked public sanitation in 2011, have not yet resolved their effects. And the effects are waiting lists and, therefore, degradation for attention to the citizenry. There are a thousand structural beds missing in hospitals in Catalonia; there are 2,700 professionals less at the Catalan Institute of Health, plus 20_percent less and much more out of stock; there are 1,400_million euros less for public sanitation in Catalonia; they are levels of expenditure per head of the year or two years ago in Catalonia. This is what causes a degradation of sanitation and the quality of sanitation in Catalonia. And in parallel, also, another cause is the perversion of the system based on opacity and confusion in planning, in the purchase of activity and in the same management of the waiting lists. And all of this continues to harm those affected, who are citizens, in general, and the professionals of the services, in particular. But, in addition, the whole fold has yet to degrade more when – and it has already been referred to – the past year has made an important model change for the back door of an order from the Government to eliminate terms of guarantee in most interventions and pass it to terms of reference, and that, moreover, in accounts of being terms of six_months, passing to the end of one year; of guarantees and of six_months, to the reference – and, therefore, without the need for compliments – and of one year. And, moreover, this was done by passing the "brown to the professionals, to the specialists, who, without having the social data of that person, the data of his or her surroundings and of the rest of the factors affecting that person – because they make visits every time shorter – must prioritise some patients or others forward in these lists of waits and also, at this very time, attend to the complaints of these users. That's what made the year pass with the orders of Mr. Boi Ruiz. For this reason, we are glad that I have opened the debate on the proposal of the People's Party law and that I have put forward proposals for a solution, while we believe that the proposal of the People's Party law is more concrete and better. But, obviously, we have an absolute disagreement with this proposal from the People's Party as to how to give it a response, if the health system is not doing so well. You bet, like it's logical because it's its model – and what we're dealing with absolutely – because it ends up being paid private activity from the public. This is Chapter IX of your bill's proposal, which you, very legitimately and lawfully, defend, and which you know perfectly well that, from the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, we confront absolutely. Therefore, from the objectives of my parliamentary group, to stop this dismantling of the health system, to stop the effects on the citizenry of this dismantling, but also to stop the private negotiation with public salvation and to stop the growing consequences for private health, we do not share this proposal of the People's Party, but we have not presented a point to the whole because we believe that it was interesting that we could open up the possibility of this debate. And before the speech to the totality of Juntes for the Yes we will abstain, we will abstain because we do not want to be the one that prevents a debate on this subject, but because, obviously, we do not coincide with this text of the law of the People's Party. I've already said I respect what I'm doing with this text. Allow me two epilogues: what's the difference... Because I have a sense of already-seen importance, because this debate we had a year and a year ago, and I myself, as a Member in that case of Initiative for Catalonia - Greens, defended these same arguments in this chamber, a year ago and a year ago. But there is a difference in respect for then: that the government has changed and the Parliament has changed and the majority have changed. And it turns out that this government, with this new Health Advisor, tells us that it is working, precisely, to reverse this situation of the waiting lists with a plan in which they have proposed to us a data of commitments, of objectives that they want to reduce these waiting lists. Today, however, we do not even have the June data of what has happened during the first months of the management of the health system by Mr Comín, nor do we have actions that do not depend on the presuppositional issue, such as repealing the concrete orders that were made on April 2015, nor do we have any concrete aspects of this entire plan of better health care lists. They will say to me: "Home, it was conditioned, hard to term, that there was new presupposition for 2016. Look, this plan is quantified, according to the same government, for this year in 130_million euros, which would have to be set aside. This same Member – and we said to her, "We are going to repeat and reiterate every time that we are here – made a manifest in this Chamber, and the Councilman did not beat it, but confirmed, that the Health Department, every year, no longer collects, in fact, money from private labor unions, 2,000_million euros for those undeclared labor malalties as working malalties that end up serving from public health when they are to be financed, their treatment, from labor unions: 130_millions, 2,000_million euros that we are financing to work unions; no longer telling us, especially in the field of health, that everything depends on a pressure and that without this pressure can not last forever. Therefore, no, we do not trust the promises, the words of the new councillor or the group that supports him to vote his speech to the totality, because, at the moment, they are only words. And one last epileg: that no one intends to store that the main problem for the health system, with the details of Mr. Boi Ruiz these last few years, but also before, is the infra-financing that there is. And that's because of the infra-financing with which the governments of self-government, as well as that of the Generality, are endowed to serve managed from self-government, such as the health system. That no one intends to store this, that this is one of the main causes of the degradation of our health system. But no one uses this to say that who approved these retail assumptions these last few years was Mr. Boi Ruiz, the Government of Artur Mas and the support of Esquerra Republicana and Convergence and Union in this chamber; that corruption in the health system has cost us a lot, and it continues to cost us a lot, and it is absolutely Catalan corruption, and, above all, that the health system is not dead, and it is not bad for the corrupt of the same system, despite Mr. Boi Ruiz and despite the infra-financement that he sees us from Madrid, because the professional and professional health system, detailed in their working conditions and overloaded in his day-to-day work, continues to see the health system. He's not dead. And the causes that are being dealt with are not just one, there are many, and the main culprits are still in this chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.250.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.251.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. First of all, to say that in the background we agree and share, as I believe that all the parliamentary groups here, that we care about the waiting lists, we care about what is going on with public health, we worry until so much that we see with indignation how private clinics are dedicated to advertising to public hospitals of the Catalan Institute of Health taking advantage of the despair of people who are waiting lists, giving them the 25_percent discount if they are waiting lists of any intervention. This passes, at least, to the Arnau Hospital in Vilanova, where there is a poster of publicity from a private clinic on which he poses: « Special 25_per_cent discount for whom you are on waiting lists. This, of course, worries us; we denounce it and we will continue to denounce it: as the infra-financing of public health facilitates the enrichment of a few and, above all, those businesses that negotiate with the salvation of all of us. Beyond that, as has already been said, on April 29, 2015 in this chamber, the very proposition of law due to the People's Party is precisely discussed. And on April 29, 2015, my company Isabel Vallet told them that we would not support the processing of the law for different reasons. From April 29, 2015 to now, for us, in relation to this, nothing has changed. And, therefore, we will continue to give no support to the handling of this law proposal. And it's that, as we told the People's Party, but the rest that they also gave support to a year ago, we think this proposal for you makes a stigmatizing approach to public health. And why do we say that? Because you said, Mr. Rodriguez, that you did not want to enter into the private-public sanitation debate, but this proposal for you constantly gives rise to a debate about public and private sanitation. Because you say, write textually: "This proposal for law as an object of coherent and realistic treatment of names waiting lists as one of the characteristics inherent in the public health system of universal and free access. In the background he goes to say: "Hope lists are something that exists, they have always existed and will always exist. Therefore, the objective of this inherent reality of public health is to treat it consistently. Yes, waiting lists have always existed, but it is a fact that they do not exist; not that we live with them and accept them as a normality where we understand that it is an anomaly and that it stigmatizes and puts public health in a weakened and weakened starting situation. Therefore, in addition, in this debate that we do not have to have about public sanitation and private sanitation, what is said is: "Well, as the waiting lists for public sanitation exist, let's get it to private sanitation. And you did me not with the head, but we'll get further in the text and see how, explicitly, they ended up with it. But it is that, besides, and we said one year ago, there is a part of the guarantee system and the beneficiaries of the guarantees that we have not just heard. And we didn't just hear it because you're referring to the fact that the beneficiaries are the right holders of the healthcare law, or so it's the law 21/2010. Ends here, all right. But we have a problem: with all this, the decree that pushed your party to the Madrid government, the decree 16/2012 where remains? If we're talking about the 21/2010 Law, it's much more open... [[Funnel veils]] , yes, sir, but not Decree 16/2012. I'll be right back, won't I? , we find that we have an important collection in our home that lives, then, twice stigmatized– seen twice stigmatized–, because we deny it access to public health and live twice stigmatized because we dedicate ourselves to campaigning for its economic activity, as is the current situation of maintaining, that both the Barcelona Assembly and the Government of Catalonia dedicate themselves to campaigning and chasing cities that..., we can discuss many things, but that gain life with what they can and with what they have access to, and that, therefore, instead of helping them what we are chasing them. So here we also have to make it clear that when we talk about access to sanitation and when we talk about migrants in situations..., or without papers we also have to open a little more eyes. But apart from that, we don't support the handling of this law for Article 9. And here's where, for us, we do get into a total shock and a total confrontation of what is public sanitation versus private sanitation, because here's where there's the key to all this. "If the patient is not on time, he or she must be offered the benefit in another public or concerted centre. You're done here, all right. « If I don't answer an offer... I have a question that..., or so, when we talk about « offer in the situation of waiting lists, exactly, what are we talking about? But he says, "If I don't ask for an offer in any centre accredited to Catalonia, here we start not to delimit exactly..., not to put the limits well, and so it stays in the area, but it is that, moreover, they finish, finish, finish, break: "And, if not, they can go to a private centre and receive the attention, that the Catalan Health Service will have to pay the expenses. And here we go in full, that is, we end up paying private clinics instead of deepening public health, instead of improving public health, which we are continuing to accept and facilitate this economic circulation. And it's that one of the problems that popped up the pattern irregularities is the one that went out this way, isn't it? , in a way the irregularities, corruption is that it involves a business for the private, for the private sanitation, and, therefore, it still implies more privatization, and, therefore, it assumes a non-equity in access to public sanitation. And here's where we always plant ourselves and keep planting ourselves. But it is that, in addition, the issue of irregularities and health corruption has come out a lot. Completely agree, but it's that talking about the Innova case... – that's why, practically, all the groups in the chamber except the one who practically didn't govern anything in Catalonia –, all those who at some point have ruled this country are charged for the Innova case or for the tracks that were going, they're charged there, so we don't give lessons here, because there's enough. And, to Mr. Santi Rodríguez, you were talking about the Innova case. We also remember the Alzira model, we also remember that he played his game in the rest of the Catalan Country or the State with public sanitation, which we will also find a few cases. So we're not just talking about something without looking at the rest. Here what happens and what happens in the background, in this proposal of the law, we understand that it is still easy for private activity and private sanitation to continue to be enriched at the expense of a basic right such as sanitation, and that, therefore, it is necessary that we all work to improve the lists of hope, obviously, but from the propositions of law that we do not stigmatize public sanitation, that they do not facilitate the referral of patients to private sanitation and that, ultimately, they put the center to what needs to be discussed, that it is the public sanitation of this country, and that we improve it. Therefore, for all that we have said, we will do as we did a year ago, which everyone has also made clear, we will do as we did on April 29, 2015, which is not to process this proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.252.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.253.0	In contradiction, Madam President. Contradictions. Allusions and contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.254.0	Yeah, yeah... say, a minute, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.255.0	Thank you. No, it's very short because basically what I said in my intervention, and I repeat, it wasn't this debate about public and private sanitation. We knew perfectly well that there would be groups that would only focus their position on the role that private sanitation has, but let me tell you that there is a public good that is through the public or private ownership of health services, and this public good is salvation. And if they are fixed and read well the bill that our parliamentary group has put before them, we ask that all public lives be exhausted, that is to say, in order to ensure that the citizens are attuned to time and conditions. Only in the only case that, through the public street, it is not able to offer the citizen the healthcare solution that it requires, in this case only it is possible to access the private one. I insist, with a single purpose: the public good, which is salvation. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.256.0	We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes. The vote begins. The total vote was adopted by 69 votes to 27, with 36 abstentions. As this whole issue has been approved, this legislative initiative remains rejected. Let me guess that point 12, which is the proposed adaptation law of the Law 30/2010 of Vegueries, to the new region of Moianès and to the creation of the Vegueria of the Penedès, will be substantiated after point 14, which is the procedure for choosing seven members of the Commission of Control of Popular Consultations not Referendaries. Can this alteration be approved with your consent? [[Pause.]] Thank you; the order of the day is changed in this sense. [[Proposal for the creation law of the Catalan Social Protection Agency (totality debate)]] [[202-00034/11]] The point of the order of the day is the debate of totality of the proposition of the law of creation of the Catalan Agency of Social Protection. In accordance with Rule 114(2) of the Rules, this legislative initiative is presented by the two parliamentary groups which are the authors of the bill. In the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.257.0	Thank you, President. In this plenary today, for the second time, let us bring back a key debate for the independence process that some consider to be inert. The Catalan Agency for Social Protection is established in the framework of the three pieces of law for the creation of summer structures. Even being a structure that enters the mark of autonomous competitions is essential for the construction of the Catalan Republic. The Catalan Agency for Social Protection, the body of which will be the right structure of the new republic, will be an autonomous body; therefore, with control of anticipated and subsequent expenses; of management and public law, even in its contracts, and will not assume any increase of other substantial charges, but that existing human resources will be used. Therefore, public, transparent and austere, this is how we want to build the Catalan Republic. Nevertheless, the new republic must also be fair and, in this case, the opposite will be the law of social security. It will be there where the rights and rights are regulated, and it is at this point where you will bet on a good system of rights that you have the ability to be a generator of social justice and that you are able to aim at making the margins of exclusion smaller and smaller; that the invisible, the people who do not count, who do not see, who do not cotitate, keep seeing and inviting themselves to count: precariousness, sex workers, the workers of the school, the domestic workers, the people without papers, the people who are stuck, the pensioners and the retirees. These people, who every time are more poor, must be pissed off at the Catalan Republic. Deia Mary Wollstonecraft, a philosopher and writer of the 18th century, who is just and not charitable what this world needs. And we understand that, for the social security system that the Catalan Social Protection Agency will administer and that we are debating today, there will be some background reflections on this line. First of all, that the work as a mechanism of access to rights and services is not valid when the labor market is precarious, flexible and temporary; that this does not guarantee the conditions necessary to be able to turn them into rights. We are no longer at the beginning of the 20th century, where the labor market allowed to generate a linked cotitation structure. Therefore, it is necessary to rethink the binomial work- social rights and to start from the scheme that social rights must be linked to life. Secondly, it should be pointed out that not all the work is considered to be co-titizable, it only recognizes that production and merchandise work that moves and generates rich money. All that reproductive and curative work, essential for the life that is done in the family, is neither recognized nor object of performance. This invisible and minor work, which we normally do women, in the measure that is not recognized does not suppose any performance and, therefore, the women who dedicate their lives to care, to give birth, to feed, to clean, to manage the house, to buy and other infinite tasks do not have any recognition on the part of the institutions. The fact that we do not recognize the economic circuit that sustains life, that affects many women and that take various forms, presupposes one of the strongest areas of discrimination in our system of social security. If the reproduction of life is free, they understand that it does not involve a great deal of effort to be comitizable and become a source of rights, we assume, therefore, from the institutions, that life is reproduced by love, that in the family marque it is cared for, it is taken care of, it is income, it seems, it is educated and it is nourished by love. And, of course, love is neither paid nor accounted for. As much as love, understanding this scheme, sometimes I can kill. Women assassinated in the Catalan Countries were said to have been murdered in 2016. And you have to seem exaggerated at this comparison, but it's that male violence is the tip of the iceberg of a patriarchal model assumed and tolerated, and to eradicate it we need to rethink it from scratch, also in the framework of the economy, social security and work. They must be visible, valued and tied right to the tasks of the economy of life, and make them social rights. To care, to bear, to clean, to feed and to go to buy are essential tasks for life, and as such they must be recognized to the social security regime. In the third place, and already to close the reflections, in a context of crisis like what we have at our home today, many of the jobs that people do are not formal or under the umbrella of the recognized labor market. The causes of this phenomenon are multiple, sometimes they are more just than others, but in practice they assume that the workers who work for the informal economy do not cotitzen and, therefore, are not subject to rights. We repeat: to link social rights to life and not to a job that sometimes does not exist and sometimes is too precarious to be valid. For this reason, to be able to make the Catalan Republic of the rights today we pull forward the Catalan Agency of Social Protection, with the will to work because the rights, to the Catalan Republic, are linked to life, with the will to put sustainability and reproduction at the center; with the will to finish with commercial phonationalism and open the institutions to the service of the distribution of wealth, above the benefit, to the service of the people and to the service of life.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.258.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Next, has the word Lord Chakir the Homrani, in representation of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.259.0	Good afternoon to all, President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Deputies, members of the Government and especially the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families. Today we have a debate on totality, about a number of things that have taken place in the framework of the joint employment of the Catalan social protection, which we decided to present as proposed by the law, in order to maintain this job in order to finish working on the other aspect that we have mandated ourselves. And I start with this explanation because it looks like we have a bad suit; I guess it's got to be a bad suit – I'm surprised, huh? , that it's a bad habit, but we have this bad habit–, that we say we do some things, we explain it to the citizen and citizens, we have the luck that the citizens give us their support and we make them. It's a bad suit; we'll continue with this bad suit. And of this evil suit one of the objects is this, and we divided it into two parts. For one thing, we; one we also have to think about this double responsibility that we have self-imposed. It is a double responsibility, it is one that must allow us to manage in a more efficient way, in a more just way the present, because we have this responsibility; but sometimes it is one that must allow us to have in the future the ability to manage the full reality of social protection, which is our objective, this bad habit: we present ourselves to the elections saying that we do some things and try to do them, as at least; it is a bad habit, what we do. Beyond this, and from this double will around this proposal of the Law, I do want to thank the work of two Members who have also been members of this proposal, but who today do not seem to defend it, this proposal of the Law, the Natalia Figueras and the Albert Botran, who have also been members of this proposal. From here, we talk about social protection, we talk about one of the basic pillars of the welfare state. When we talk about the pillars of the welfare state, we have, for one thing, social protection: sanitation, education, housing rights, but we are basically talking about these three pillars. An absolutely necessary pillar, without which a modern society cannot guarantee the compliment of effective equality. I think it's important that we take this into account, because we're talking about a key element; otherwise, discrimination is effective. And around that, it is important that we never forget that social protection is a social contract of which we have citizenship. A social contract, and this social contract, which allows those people who are in a situation of vulnerability and who individually cannot cope with many situations that are found at the length of their lives, can cope with these situations collectively from this contract, of which we possess citizens and citizens. I think it's important that we take this into account, and I think it's important that we take into account that companies based on work generate dependencies in the rendering system, around people who are called "inactive," "passive; we could have a lot of background debate around that. But this need to generate, from the point of view of the collection, answers to the citizen who have more difficulties is an obligation and is an absolutely necessary element to be able to speak of a fair society. In Catalonia, the construction of social protection has generated many and varied benefits. I don't think I can handle it – you can tell me I might be risky, huh? But, I humbly believe that I am not – if I say that there is an important political agreement in the fund, of all political forces, around the need to make a rationalization work of all these performances. A rationalisation work that allows you to have a clear debate, around its complementarities, around its subsidiarity, around its compatibility, which allows the administrative management to be simpler, both from the point of view of the Administration, as from the point of view of the city or the citizen who wants to get to these services. And in the framework of this debate and in the framework of this mandate, we propose the creation of the Catalan Social Protection Agency, making a bet for the agency models, differentiated from the departments, with its own legal personality, with sufficient funding, with full autonomy for the compliment of its functions, we bet clearly for the functional independence of this agency. And this is a very important bet and it's the first one I want to place and value; we bet that the president of this agency will hear it from Parliament. We think that when we talk about social contracts – that's why I've turned to the principle of social protection – it's important that it's gone a lot further than the government, that it's all about all of you representing popular sovereignty. Well, there are some who don't want to represent it, but they do, because they are and have been chosen for the citizens. And we make this bet, very clear – very clear – that it is a parliamentary control agency, that it has parliamentary control; that it is disconnected from government drifts; that in key aspects, such as social protection with a view to ensuring equal opportunities in our country and in our society, Parliament has a very key role. That is why this Parliament will be here to elect the President or President on a proposal from the Government. For this reason, this Parliament will be able to have the explanations of the president of the Catalan Social Protection Agency every year. That's why we make this very clear bet. It is an agency that is governed by a series of principles: that of responsibility, that of transparency, that of predictability, that of participation and that of dynamism. What do we want to deal with this? We want to make a modern agency. We want to make an agency that is clear; that is clear to the citizen and citizens of this country, that they are, in the background, the ones who have the rights and those who generate these rights. And it's very important to get around this will. We have a structure with a clear will for parliamentary control, but also a clear participation. Apart from the President, the most important area is the General Council, and this General Council will have a direct involvement of social and economic agents. And we make such a firm bet around the governance of this agency... we do, so... it doesn't cost anything to stay in the joint that the agency's objectives will fix this general council. Because we are very clear that when we talk about social protection, and when we talk about social protection in a country like Catalonia, but to any other country, the role of agents is key; we are very clear. Beyond that, what else are we planting? A councillor: the academic and professional optics. We must have the ability to have all the interview and all the information about the professionals and academics who know this area. And lastly, we locate the board of participation. Have you ever heard of creating an agency where you can't collaborate with citizens? This organized citizenry? This tremor we have in this country? This third sector, these organisations that are around social rights, that cannot participate in it? You didn't feel it – you didn't feel it. And with which we are very clear, we make this bet. Now, I think it's very important that we take into account that this agency will have the ability to manage all social protection. It is to say, there have been, these days..., some people say: "Home, no, it is that on the pre-project of law you do not find what performance there will be. Another time, we're naive. We do not, because the Catalan Social Protection Agency has to manage all the Catalan social protection; that's simple. [[The timer laughs.]] And then we'll go through and give all the social protection to the field of agency, and he'll manage it. But, gentlemen, it's legitimate, it's legitimate; we don't just aspire to manage. We're tired of the limitation of managing what the others tell you. And it is in this sense that we create a structure that serves in a future, that goes beyond management, that serves in the design. Because the design of social protection, this design, beyond what we can now design, but this will to have this design completely, to make this design shared with social agents and economic agents, with the social fabric of this country, the design of this social protection is what will enable us to guarantee its character of social justice. And we think it's very important, and that's why we make an architecture, a design that wants to think beyond mere management. Other aspects that he wanted to place, and I think it is important to place them: he has the competence to recapitulate. We are very clear: the Catalan Social Protection Agency must be able to retrieve all the elements, all the functions of recapturing the concepts related to social protection. It's a model bet – it's a model bet – very clear, it has a very clear meaning, and we're clear: you have to have this ability. Other elements that I wanted to place and that... so I wouldn't leave them in the band. Yes, I believe that with the overcoming of this question to the totality, if the deputies and deputies find it adjunct, the processing of this law did not end. Yes, we will tell you a question: we are in a hurry, but in this sense, we will not have any problem at the time of evaluating the proposals that come from here, but also the proposals that come from outside, because all the explanation that I make does not feel if we do not have this ability to situate it. And I think it's important that we know. Beyond that, the graces that have been set aside to debate with normality, to make a political debate, to make no spectacles. I think it's important and I think that on a day like today, the truth, I hope that the debate on this proposal for you is a debate and not a show, that I think that sometimes we give to the citizenry and I think that every prayer should make us think. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.260.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Homrani. Next, in order to defend the papers to the totality of return of the proposal of law, has the word of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.261.0	Honourable President, Councillors, Councillors..., ladies and gentlemen, the rupturist process that we live in Catalonia is so heavy, repetitive and plumb that they will allow me to focus this intervention with two literary examples to at least give a little color to the debate. The law that is presented to us, ladies and gentlemen, announced as the first great law of rupture, and it is within this framework, even though today they come so, in Ovejita plan, because already the fireworks we have had this morning, but this first law of rupture could receive the title of a famous fable of Aesop: The birth of the mountains. Do you know her? Remember? "For months the mountains gave signs that they would give birth, sowing the land of uncertainty. What would Gea beget from her bowels? The extraordinary signs followed until the time of the birth finally arrived, and the mountains, which contained all the strength and dynamism of the earth, finally gave us a small and ridiculous mouse. For this is exactly what has happened with this law: so much paraphernalia, so much media noise, so many headlines, so many speakers, so many speakers in the end to announce us an autonomous and conservative social protection agency, that is, seasoned with some unconstitutionality, so that it is not said. [[Widow's remorse.]] And that leads me to think of another literary motive, a passage from the Quixote, this year of its centenary. At a time of the great novel, Sancho is offered to become governor of the Barataria Island, which does not really exist, everything is a great fiction, but the great tramway allows Sancho to be governor for a time. Let's not forget that Sancho can believe he's a governor because there's a lot of neighbors who know, who know what's going on, but they're quiet. Cervantes tells us – he tells us –: « The grotesque of the situation had... – and I quote –, he admired the people, that the key to the story did not know, and even to all those who knew, that there were many. Finish the date. And this is the process – this is the process – a great representation that has allowed some, with ambitions of greatness, to play to build and design a state. And it has allowed others, with more prosaic motivations, to enjoy position and benefit for years. "Blessed process, which comes to my arks, must say some. [[Rialles.]] And not from here, but rather from the middle or..., well. It is true that for many citizens on foot – and I recognize this –, for many citizens, the process has meant a horizon of meaning in a time of general collapse. And you've seen it well and you've found the occasion. But, you – you – have been afraid to face reality, you have been afraid of responsibility and have preferred to make Catalonia your Barataria island to handle it at your will. And here too, a lot of people know, but they keep quiet. And he who speaks is expelled, like that leader of the UPC who dared to say that the process was the biggest fraud in Catalan political history, and I think he is no longer on the committee..., well, he will no longer be any more because everyone has been purged. In any case, the process has not served to solve not one of the problems of Catalans, nor one, on the contrary: it has prevented us in these years that we needed consensus, that we needed dialogue, that we needed agreements, it has prevented us from dedicating the maximum energies to create a better society, to create a more just and more developed economy. You have decided to flee reality and take refuge in Matrix. And I have to tell you that Matrix has worked, in a sense. Well, Arthur More..., well. The other day I saw some images – the other day I saw some images – from the siege to Parliament. There was a member of the CUP, I found her, I didn't know she had been, but I saw that they were doing an interview here at the door of Parliament, so, let's say, with a slightly more anti-systemic expression, I, as Teresa Rodríguez said, of Podemos, "the institutions domesticate, but... well, then, we were only talking about political crisis and social and economic crisis, we were just talking about adjustments. A year later, everything changed and has only been talked about, since then, a national and populist movement to which everything had to sacrifice itself, everything. And I will give you three examples – only three not to extend me – of this logic of democratic normality in which we have settled. First, we have seen how the opposition was diluting; first, by drawing the Government's attention and then incorporating it on the list with the Government, that is, pure Peronism: the opposition and the Government, together. Secondly, we have seen Members, as I said before, Members who participated in these protests against the convergent cuts; vote a government and a president of Convergence. And, third, today, in the name of the breakup, a conservative law is presented to us. The CUP swallows nominations by Olympic finger. The CUP swallows that there is no trade union representation on the General Council and the Advisory Council. This, the socialists, the bourgeois and treacherous left, as you call them, I have seen them in commissions battle to the end so that the unions would be on the general councils. All sacrificed to the process, also the form, also the procedure. And you forget that democracy is also a procedure. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Llach, too. This law is born in violation of the rights of sixty-three deputies. The Bureau dealt with the presentation against most groups, against the Rules of Procedure and against legal services. Well, a classic, so you can see because today we've already seen another. But what are the regulations, ladies and gentlemen, what are the regulations against the will of the people, against the unstoppable course of history? Well, look, for starters, they are the table of salvation for when that course of history changes, it happens quite. You did everything to your parliamentary majority, as if this were your estate or your estate, but what if one day you lose this majority? According to the CEO..., says Mr Romeva: "Well, then, nothing happens. Will you, then, like to trample on your rights? No, not to me, either. Who will then protect them? Friends, what am I going to tell you, independence friends? You've been here for four years, friends, you've been here for four years advocating for the breakup, delegitimizing the laws, flaunting disobedience, today we've seen it. And you're acting like arsonists. Because one day this populist discourse of legal transgression can make you like a boomeran. One day, by appealing to popular democracy or the uninduced cry of the majority, some will step on what you most want, and then there will be no appeal or appeal possible. You will say: "It is I who love Catalonia the most." It's just that I'm a patriot. False – false. You are not patriots because a patriot does not halve his land. You are not patriots because a patriot does not sow the germ of division. [[Greetings.]] You are not patriots because a patriot is not shielded in impossible fictions. Worst of all, we have lost five years – five years – that have left us only the ruins of a sterile conflict and the spoils of Convergence – good, and of Unity. And of all that the process has touched. Artur Mas, the killer, has left nothing, well, to himself, yes. [[The timer laughs.]] This law is another example of the toxic logic of the process. Because, listen – and the deputy of the CUP said – what this project deals with has relevance, indeed, has relevance. We have to simplify and rationalize social benefits, we have to make the effective and transformative, not just palliative; but the way is not to create a new chiringuito, the way are no longer presidents, directors, salaries, councils..., the way, above all, is not to present it, process it and defend it in the form of a break because then everything is addicted. As he's been addicted to everything in Catalonia for five years. All addicted. Moreover, you follow the road map of the National Transition Council, which said: "We must create a Catalan social protection agency as soon as possible, and then we will say that it is to assume our own competences, but then it will serve us – if you have said so, the Member –" to assume our own when we are a state. Clearer the water. You do not want an agency, you do not care here about the welfare of citizens, you care about: the September confidence motion, sell smoke and look like you are moving towards independence. And we cannot, is that we cannot validate a hypocritical law that responds to the road map of the separatist oligarchy, which today presided over us this morning, here, directing – directing – from the rostrum when I had no right to do so. We cannot give a green light to a unconstitutional bloated law of guinea pigs. And you say to me: "Be careful. They will say to me: « They stick to the literality of the text, to what the text says – they stick to the literality of the text. And I say to them: "There is no text without context. And the context is framed by that stone phrase, Mrs Rigau, I don't know if you were at that meeting: « The state must be deceived. And that, again, addicted everything. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, you, don't... you haven't said it. [[Widow's remorse.]] And you know what happens? – And you know what happens? That you think you're very smart, but we're not fools. You will tell us: "Give us a vote of confidence. And I say to them: "This is the problem: trust. It's just that the process isn't going to break Spain, but it has broken the trust between us. Because, after all, can we talk about competition issues? Of course we can talk. Can we talk about funding? Of course we can talk. Can we talk about the vertebrate structure of the state? Now that there are only two Members of my group, I dare say clearly that we can talk! [[Widow's remorse.]] But let's make it clear: the problem – the problem – is that you have repeated that any new competition, any new instrument, anything we talk about will use it to load if Spain. So, that prevents any possibility of sincere dialogue that we want to have. And that's a shame, because we'd have a lot to do, because we could hang a lot of wounds, but you guys prefer to throw salt, as we saw this morning. There are also articles of dubious constitutionality. For example, Article 2.3, which comes to equate the Catalan agency with social security, or the reference to periods of deficiency, or the will – and this will please the Romeva Councillor – to claim the Generalitat in international forums. I'm done, Madam President. The other day Mr. Bel drew us an image of Darth Vader, remember? For to me... – today we have a fan – because to me, reading this law came to mind another phrase of The War of the Galaxies. It's a phrase, a dialogue between Master Yoda and Luke Skywalker. He says, "Do it or don't do it, but don't try. And I would say to them: "If you want to make a law of breakage, dare to make a law of breakage and do not make a conservative agency to entangle the staff, and if you want to make an agency, make a real agency and do not present us with a truffle agency of unconstitutionality so that we cannot talk about it. Stop playing with the Catalans. I don't lose hope. These times of dense fog will pass and the clean air of understanding will return to Catalonia. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] Do you remember when Trias swore they were never going to vote for the PP? Well, sometimes in life there are things that seem like they'll never be fixed and fixed. Because, moreover, fictions serve to rule for a time, to win an election, and even to live from the tale, but there comes a time when they give way to reality. And I end up like I started, going back to Sancho. The fiction of the Barataria Island collapsed suddenly. Cervantes himself notes his surprise at the, I quote, "the speed with which it ended, it was consumed, it fell apart. It went as in shadow and smoke the government of Sancho. It will pass to the process, ladies and gentlemen, because what is raised about division and fiction cannot succeed. Put yourself in real rule, don't waste our time and, above all, don't drag Catalonia into the mud of its failure. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.262.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Next, the words of Mr. Joan García, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.]] Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.263.0	Well, this has happened to me more than once, that of talking after Fernando. I believe that from now on we will try to present the amendments to the whole before the People's Party. [[Rialles.]] Well, deputies, deputies, a placebo is, in medicine, a pharmacologically inert substance that can generate a positive effect on people who do not know its nature. placebos are linked to the development of neurotransmitters, which cause brain effects on motivation or feeling of reward. Today we are faced with a placebo law. They bring us today in the form of a law an envelope, a shell, a continent – in fact already said by the Lord the Homrani – emptied of content, open to everything. They bring us a frame whose only purpose, really, is to be a bold weapon with which to challenge Spain. In fact, something that is nothing new and that we have already seen today a couple of times. They offer us an article that for us is confusing, ambiguous and recurring, a law where they create an agency to manage the social benefits that the Generalitat was already managing today and that simply says that it will also manage all those that come in the future. They create an agency to which they give a placebo name, the Catalan Social Protection Agency, on which the future responsibility for forming a virtual separatist puzzle rests. But, of course, I think we already know them, and we know that they live installed, as Fernando said, in Matrix. So much so that they even forget their most recent decisions. The Social Services Act 2006 provided for the ICASS to do precisely what they want to do today with this law, a solution to which we would have joined and which we continue to defend. ICASS was, in fact, a social security manager who would have had the capacity to incorporate new social benefits and manage them, with the guarantee of being within the social security system. We also believe that it was an efficient and very useful solution for Catalans. But you, Democratic Convergence and Republican Left at the time, decided to eliminate the ICASS. In 2014, it was, exactly. It seems that then it was not so important to manage social services in a single agency. So the important thing was to cut into those social services, and they did. Thus, they ended up including those social services that the ICASS managed at Benestar Social i Família's office. In other words, let's recap: they removed the ICASS to propose to us today a similar but empty artifact of content, and with all possible legal uncertainty that they have been able to find behind. I would not be able to say whether it is audacity or political trilerism. So, and I ask on behalf of many Catalans who I am sure care little about their separatist epic: Are they going to manage the social benefits of Catalans through an agency created with a law of dubious constitutionality? Because you with this law set another goal, and this one I think is the important one: the creation of the aggravation. It's the fable, the aggravation. They use the usual formula: they draft a law that they know has articles that the Constitutional Court will have to suspend, because, basically, accepting them would be the same as accepting an amendment to the Constitution, and because they already know what the Constitutional Court has established about its famous state structures. Once that happens, once the Constitutional Court again tells you what you already know, they will start the phase of creating the victimistic argument and announce the evil of the constitutional system, which works just like in any other democratic country that is worth being. The purpose, what is it? Enlarge a seed of ailments with which to maintain his nursery of hates – enlarge a seed of ailments with which to maintain his nursery of hates. And all for political objectives. Thus, we will come to see how you drive campaigns gestated by your puppet associations, or power lobbies, that that is what you have already become, like the one promoted by the ANC this weekend in Vic and that has exceeded all the limits of the ethically surpassable in politics; a gross simulation of a cemetery that the ANC has turned into a foolish version of the respectable cemetery of Arlington; a simply disgusting campaign that launches in a little subliminal way the evolution of « Spain robs us of « Spain kills. Is that the way you want to go? Is that the way you want to go? Your game is dangerous. They play to force our model of coexistence; they play, with an astonishing lack of respect, to destabilize, in a social state like Spanish, social security itself and to try to blow up democratic procedures that guarantee their balances. And with it you end up playing with thousands of Catalans who obstinately lead to live in confusion; a confusion like you, who have been in a public office for many years, many of you, do not know, but for those who have had to work out there in harsh conditions and who have earned many of the rights that you now have, it ends up mutating into insecurity, and from there to fear there is a step. But, of course, we already know, we already know well, that, in fact, you give no legal certainty to what you do. We've already checked this morning, actually. That in your capsule nothing happens. Everything is what you want it to look like. But we don't care. Look, it's not credible anymore, victimistic data. I think the Catalans know that it is you who have done everything possible to reduce the state of well-being in Catalonia and that if anyone has been an indisputable protagonist of those cuts have been, actively and passively, Republican Left and Democratic Convergence of Catalonia. You have actually been the cause of the suffering of thousands of Catalans – you have actually been the cause of the suffering of thousands of Catalans. And that is not covered by a process of disconnection, a process of disconnection that is actually disconnection with its own faults. They sought out their foreign enemy, and there came out of the « Spain steals from us. I suppose you will know that you have not invented anything, because any European who knows the history of the twentieth century knows the strategy well and usually describes it with some aversion. But I don't think they were creative. Or at least don't think about it. And it does not relieve them of the guilt of having done something very deplorable to use the suffering of thousands of Catalans to build a victimistic narrative in the service of political objectives. I repeat: to use, as they have used, the suffering of thousands of Catalans to build a victimistic narrative in the service of political objectives. This story always has a final chapter. They're like a bad movie even in that. Predictable. There is always a hero who frees us, or frees them, or frees Catalonia, or some Catalans, from the perfidious Hispania, and there is always a wooden hero among you who softs a law, even if that law is empty, seeks to build one of those final chapters that will lead us to happiness and that will also lead us to those days when we will have endless ice creams. Too bad, as in the myth of Sisyphus, the great stone always falls again, and its law elixir, and cured everything, becomes pumpkin again. And some of us wonder: Are there alternatives to this nonsense? There are. I have already told you how simple it would have been to apply the Social Services Act 2006 and to unify the management of social services in the ICASS, within the social security system with all legal guarantees. We believe that this is the most appropriate model for our community. The ICASS would remain a social security management entity, so we could avoid dysfunctions between administrations and change the concept of confrontation by collaboration. But, apart from working on an applicable model of social services management, you could prioritize a whole series of initiatives that are more important, possibly, than this placebo today. They have a chance to do that. I'll give you some examples. Here, you, for example, could have devoted some effort to updating the social services portfolio, which has not been touched since 2011, which should match your ratios to current social needs. The Social Services Act stipulated that the portfolio should be updated every four years. But he hasn't. When we asked about this matter, the answers given have not been satisfactory. Thus, in March, the Junts pel Yes Group, in one of our committees, the Committee on Social Affairs, commented to us, to this question, that it could not be updated right now because it took a lot of time. Long time? Is that a weighty argument? The Counsellor also spoke in attendance in February. There he told us of his willingness to redo the portfolio of social affairs. But today we're still waiting. Even, cynicism was allowed, and let me say so, to respond to the question made by my colleague Naomi de la Calle that with the approval of the Law of the Social Protection Agency, that of today, we would solve the problem. The placebos don't work with us. You, for example, could also have devoted your efforts to developing the Personal Autonomy Promotion Act. In 2013, this law was discussed; in 2014, in May 2014, unsubstantiated appearances were requested, and Constellera Bassa, last February, also told us to promote a debate around it. We're still waiting. Have you run out of time on this, too? Without time they have also stayed to constitute the Conseil Català del Treball Autònom. The self-employed have been waiting for six years. The same years we have all been waiting for the development of Law 14/2010 on children and adolescents. Too much effort? But, since they do not consider it necessary to exercise the useful legislative initiative – in fact they have only proposed a law in which we are in the legislature – we invite them to join our proposals, such as the Proposition of a law to support families with dependent children. Or does that take them away from any political goal? I think what you prefer is that we discuss nothing. In fact, we have thus come to another of the most striking examples, which shows how you prioritize only what can serve you for your political objectives. When the presentation of this law that we voted today – which you have cooked yourselves, by the way – was opened, in turn, the presentation of guaranteed income of citizenship was opened, in which all groups participate more or less. The CUP doesn't show up much, but, well, we're not going to go into details. From this parliamentary group and from other opposition groups it has been requested on several occasions to expedite the proceedings. But while today we have a text for an inert law, we see how that law, which is very important to everyone, slows down depriorized. And we can go on. We could also talk about debt to special work centres, or how they stand out in the face of increasing female poverty, a particularly harsh fact among those women who are heads of single-parent families. This is something SOC should be helping to solve through employability and training programmes. But with the worrying situation of the SOC that is a chimera; a situation that comes to be, I think, an amendment to the whole of its supremacist theories about the fact that the Government of Catalonia manages everything better. Well, no, look, this isn't it. I'm so sorry, Mrs. Bassa. In fact, we could continue with the list of grievances, the actual grievances, the ones we have the Catalans against you, the ones that are the fruit of your inaction. I'm just telling you that none of these initiatives that I've listed and the Government of the Generalitat is prioritizing would have been rated placebo, either by our group or by anyone; but this law, I repeat, this law that we're debating today, yes. A law that – and allow me to refer briefly to both the PSC and Catalonia Yes, it is Pot – can only be rejected from our point of view. There is no alternative text like the one they have presented, a text that does not intend to recover the ICASS, with its formulation in 2006, but simply tries to say "no, but without disturbing too much, through a proposal that is not implementable. Let's repeat: the ICASS served us, let's get it back. Anyway, I think that with this they have established a relationship that in the future can be very fruitful and we have always said that we are in favour of love, so I think it is good that they maintain it. So, and in conclusion, I think that with all the above we make it clear why we are presenting this amendment to the whole, because we cannot support a challenging law that has been designed to feed a victimistic narrative, because our alternative, the ICASS, is not, is not a placebo. Ladies and gentlemen, in a speech in this House a few months ago, I spoke of a concept of resilience. It referred to the same applied to the capacity of our public workers to adapt to the unjust decisions imposed on them in recent years, but I think I can extend it to the social majority that in Catalonia, resilient, only hope that you will soon stop ruling us, because the best policy of social protection is that you will stop ruling Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.264.0	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Next, for the defense of the threat to the totality with alternative text, presented jointly for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot, has the word Mrs Eva Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.265.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, advisors, we present, in this case, the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and also the Socialist Group a theme with alternative text, which is an innovative fact, had never passed in this Parliament, that two opposition groups present a theme to the totality with alternative text jointly. And I want to tell you that it's a theme that we put in place, so we said the other day, that we presented the text on the press wheel, when we wanted to register it, because the Socialist Parliamentary Group wants an agency, a social protection agency, but we want an agency that is useful and an agency that is realistic. The truth is that today, you present your first law of breakup, so the truth is that little breakup and what you've been through this morning, so it seems that this debate will pass without pity or glory, with little ceremony, and it won't be a historic day, if not for this subject. And we, saying it quickly, have the feeling that the groups that support the government have made a text that was very short. I don't like it any further, because there are gestures of going to Catalan social security, but we do have very short downhill, underneath, because if we have the capacity to manage social protection in Catalonia – and we have a lot of it, we have exclusive skills in social services – they also have the joints of our country. And here you didn't want to make a social protection agency that thinks of the assemblies, in the local world, that also manages and manages very well the services and services of social policy. Therefore, what we find in its norm is very rhetorical, but little agency, little protection and little social. We have listened, on the part of the groups that present the proposal of law that today we debate, therefore, very model, very objective, but the truth is that other autonomous communities, such as Andalusia, Aragó, Cantábria, Murcia and even Catalonia had also had institutes of social services and agencies that more or less want to do, try to do what we try with this law as well. Therefore, I would like to make a cry because we do not make an excess of adanism, it seems that everything starts in this Catalonia almost post-autonomous and pre-independent. Many years ago we managed social services in our home and, concretely, I would like to do, in the time I have, a little rest from how we got here, because it seems that everything just starts now and that social protection will start to manage it from the beginning of this agency. And doing a little historical rest, in this very Parliament a couple of years ago, the Social Services Act was unanimously approved. The Children's Law, the Economic Social Benefits Law – all this has been done by this Parliament – was approved, and we are managing all these laws. The Social Services Act also provided for the decentralisation of ICASS, but this decentralisation of ICASS, which is collaboration with the local world through program contracts, agreements and many other issues, therefore, this decentralisation of ICASS disappeared because you yourself repealed it. We have had the 2014 Bill of Measures, and other Acts of Measures, in this Parliament, which have been retailing and disassembling instruments that we have and that you, in this case it was Convergence and Union, before the popular party gathering, after the Republican Left gathering, have done the most important for the issue that affects us, which was the suppression of ICASS. They also went into inspection issues, registry issues, accreditation issues. And now they want to make us... they want to sell us that they come here to create it all over again. But here, in this country, there were more things than we have at this time, because his government has taken care of going by repealing and eliminating; eliminating instruments, eliminating intervention capacity on the part of the public sector, but also retailing. We have had important details in the minimum income for placement, we have had details in childcare, in Catalonia there has been an increase in co-payment in dependency services, and especially in people with disabilities. And all this happened while those who now want to bring us this social protection law of this Social Protection Agency ruled. It is not just an economic issue, which also – there have been economic problems and we continue to have them – is a question of political will. There has been a desire on the part of the councillors and councillors who have had to develop and launch the Law of Social Services, and now they are putting in place a law of the Agency of Social Protection of Catalonia, when we have to be aware that our country, unfortunately, Catalonia, after the Castle - The Manxa of Maria Dolores de Cospedal, has been the autonomous community that has more detailed in social services. And I think it's important to put this on the replenishment the day we talk about the Social Protection Agency. And if we're talking about rights and we're talking about details, I think we need to put it on the table too. Because today we're not talking about a law that generates rights, we're talking about a law that needs to better manage the services and services we have. And when we talk about managing social policies, we have to put on top of the table that we've been through with the program contracts all these years; what happened to us with the payments on behalf of the affected departments; what happened to us, too, with a government that hasn't updated the Social Services Portfolio – the Social Services Portfolio is what the Government approved of the left hand side and hasn't changed yet – there's been no planning in this country, and the only one we've had is a department change for the processing of the minimum income, which we all know the consequences it has had: we still have pending issues since 2012. So, we don't do adanism, we don't think it's all starting now. There have been details, there has been no development of standards, and what has been above all a mismanagement, not only because of economic issues, but also because of the desire or lack of capacity of the government that we have had. I enter the chapter of promises, because it is not just about rights and details and management. The Government of the Generalitat, from 2011 onwards, has also made many announcements and promises. Catalonia had to have a Catalan law to care for dependence; no one has seen it; we're still waiting for it. Catalonia also had to have a law that was to be the one to give us light on this catal model of social protection, which was not this agency; the councilwoman Munté will remember, when she presented it to bobo and platerets, the catalan law of social protection. No one else has heard more about this law. They also said that they would do the counter-reform of the minimum income of insertion, because after the clatellada that they had made Convergence and Union and the People's Party, the end of Esquerra to the Government had to serve to restore the subject right; we continue with the minimum income as it was approved by the Government of Convergence and Union with the People's Party. They also had to do a social protection director program; we hope so too. All this is the rule of his promises, of his announcements from the execution council. We also have parliamentary mandates. Because we also talked a lot, in the Parliament of Catalonia, about social protection and also about management. And I remember – and we all remember –, in 2014, an inquiry and a motion that was substantiated in this Parliament, where Congressman Oriol Amorós questioned Councilman Puig. And from that young man, and this young man does come up in the speech of the motius of the law that today is going to vote here, it was talking about the threesome and the Catalan social security; then, yes; here we are already beginning to see what is the motius that is behind this law of the Catalan Social Protection Agency. In the end, the Catalan treasury and social security. That's why we've also made a statement to the whole with alternate text. This is all about rights, economics, mismanagement and incomplete announcements and promises, if we look at what we have at this time in Catalonia, the situation in Catalonia in 2016– not about independence, the real one, what Catalans and Catalans see every day–, what we have is less social protection, more severe poverty, an inability on the part of the Government of the Generality to exhaust the resources that they devote to protection, and the example is the energy poverty, and yet they are still, this guaranteed income of citizenship that, for us..., the agency that we also propose is this opportunity. A lack of programming, and it is obvious that also, at last, an inconsistency in the organization chart of the Government, it seems that, already, this chapter does not have it you, Conselera Bassa, seems to be in the hands of the Conselera Munté, where the policies of the welfare state are planned and organized. Therefore, it is not a law of break-up, we do not do Adamism and let us know in what situation we have, at these times, our country. The law that we are being brought to Parliament today has no novelty, no innovation, and what it does have is a lot of propaganda. They talk about state structures, but it's true that at the time of truth what they do is manage only the competitions. We regret that there has been no mention of Article 166 and 165 of our Statute of Autonomy which does provide for these exclusive competences in the field of social services. And we also want to fill in and share what the Constitutional Court said when it says that we can organise the management of our skills in care. And that's why you feel like you're making a law from the Social Protection Agency, and that's why we won't get into your game of breaking social security at state level; we're reporting it, and what we're doing is we're setting up a realistic and necessary alternative, which we think will actually improve people's lives. I want to go, briefly, into some of the questions that we have seen in this way of dealing with this Law of the Social Protection Agency. We are concerned about this lack of this government, lack of dialogue, lack of belief in the social dialogue model. To begin with, the law presents it to the groups that support the government, the government did not want to do it. And what he's been avoiding is this law passed by the Catalonia Economic and Social Work Council. If you, in theory, tell us that you want to make the law of Catalan social security, we do not understand that those who, in theory, should pay for it, those who, in theory, should be in the hard core of this catal model of Catalan social security and agency, are not done with social concertation. Even so, you are not very consistent with your arguments, with your model and with your actions; it is obvious that you are not very consistent here either. And so does Article 4.2 of your bill; we think it opens the door to privatizing the management of social protection, because it talks about the quotas and benefits that could be managed by some funded entities. We are also surprised that the CUP signifies this bill which, in any case, would be more public control, more social control and more open doors to privatization. And what is it that we present? I told them that our message is in place, that we want an agency and we have worked with Catalonian companies Yes, it's Pot for a few weeks, to try to articulate an alternative text to yours. I also want to thank the great work done by Odile Rombouts, who is the late woman, the lawyer in my group, and teachers and experts who have given us a hand too to articulate this alternate text. We want, in our proposal, to improve social protection; that is the objective we are setting up. And we want to do this from completing and developing the Law of Social Services; a law of social services, which in 2006 already provided for the deployment of a public policy management agency and which you did not want to pull forward. And we want to do this from the evolution of the social needs that have occurred in our country, and we especially want this Agency of Social Protection of Catalonia, which we propose, as long as the palar palar, is the only window that helps us to rationalize services and nuclear-ho all through the guaranteed income of citizenship. When I spoke with mayors, with directors, about our proposal, what I said to me was: "There are many resources that we are devoting to the gatherings – social emergency aid, food aid – that I'm sure that if we could do it all through a single window, if we had a shared social history, if from the gatherings, if the social workers that would form part of the agency could recognize and manage them, there would be an economic stable, or, with the same resources, we would get to more places, we would get to more people. That's what we want. And, therefore, we do not do as in your text, that you look up and that you want to break the social security box, but that we try to look down, look who the entities are, who are the administrations that are effectively managing social protection in our country today, are the assemblies, and that is why we want there to be a collaboration with the local world. That's why our text is about territorial agency delegations, it's about territorial councils, it's about monitoring program contracts, and it's about a robust information system that allows us to do just that, to make a single window, that the management of the Catalonian Social Protection Agency is the result of this gateway, and the ability to manage, because we understand that making economies of scale, planning shared with the joints, will be the way we tend to rationalize performance and rationalize the resources we dedicate to it. We try to make the agency an independent one, to work with a management contract and to have an accurate follow-up on the part of the government, which forms part of its maximum organ, the maximum organ of government. Also – and I finish with the few seconds that remain – we want the entry into force of this law to be very progressive because we want it to be done through participation, collaboration and the incorporation of many of the service portfolios and services that we have from different departments. I think it'll be the way. We'll see about that. I suppose this proposal that we are presenting today will not go forward, it will have to be done in the process in commission and in question, but we believe that we need to do good government, not do so much gesticulation. And before the policy of gestures, what we want is for our Social Protection Agency to have a realistic content. Faced with these political gestures, we want, as a matter of fact, to improve social protection. We don't want legitimates, what we want is collaboration between administrations. And, therefore, less epic of state structures, more rationalization. Epic menys about independence, more social dialogue with employers and unions. Epic menys and more collaboration with local administrations. And, therefore, less epic and better governance. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.266.0	Thank you, Mrs. Granados. Next, has the word Mr. Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.267.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I'll apologize but I'll do like Eva Granados, I'll try to talk about the Catalan Social Protection Agency. Catalonia Yes, we can bet on its creation in a clear way, with a double objective, that it is to improve the social protection of Catalonia's citizens and also to rationalise the management of social services, which is now deserved. The most obvious proof of our commitment to the Catalan Social Protection Agency is that today we are not limited to presenting a message to the totality, but we are presenting an alternative text, that you will have to recognize that it is very busy and that it has a lot of meaning. We believe that the key to the improvement of social protection – and the axis of this future Catalan Social Protection Agency – should be the inn already under way for guaranteed citizenship income as a universal right that will cover the entire system of social benefits in Catalonia, which is now deeply dispersed. And, in this sense, with all due respect, let me ask Juntes for the Yes and the UPC to have so much respect for the guaranteed income of citizenship as they are for the names of "disconnection laws", because people in a social emergency situation do not live with grandiose and wide-ranging statements, because if something is to be disconnected from Catalonia is from the growing poor and unequal. And guaranteed citizenship income is a good tool to disconnect from this situation of social emergence. The picture you see today in Catalonia is a low level of social protection – all of you know it, they have recognised it – but there is also unequal access by citizens to these benefits, for example, depending on the municipality in which you live. There is a diversity of forms of management and institutions involved that make it difficult for people to access these services, especially those who have the most needy and the least resources, also less empowered to access the complex system of care services. And this is one of the reasons why we are planting the Catalan Social Protection Agency as an instrument that will help manage all administrations. It's not a bureaucracy anymore, it's a useful tool to improve people's lives. This is the reason for our alternative law project, which is a yes to the Catalan Social Protection Agency and is a no to the proposed law presented by Juntes for the Yes and the CUP, which, with all due respect, is empty of content and social orientation, perhaps because its objective is another. It is true that today there have been many references to interventions, it is true that there are social references to the presentation of reasons, but in the part that matters in the laws, that is the operative parts, neither a single – nor a single – reference to the social orientation that this agency should have. The Juntes project for the Yes and the CUP totally oblivious to what should be the raison d'être of this agency, which is the best of the protection and rationalization of services. It presents this another time as a state structure. And let's just tell them what's more than reality. Even using the half-hour, I think we're before a structure, but a carcass. Even so, it seemed to me that the CUP spokesman used the same expression. Yeah, it's a carcass, but it's an empty carcass. And if you allow me another half-hour, that, in automotive terms, what you have presented today, is in social terms a Biscuter, yes, that shows up to sell" tuned as if it were a national Ferrari. And unfortunately it's not, because you know that here, another time more, you've done it all the time: teach and store, stay and take it off, threaten and not donate, because you're all playing amagatotis all day long, you're playing to roll as long as any day of these blows with the pilot and fall, or, what's worse, you're scoring a goal in your own door, which is what I think is most likely to happen from today. The alternative text that we have presented to you is in the service of the best of this social protection, without generating expectations, because we know that it is not easy, but taking advantage of all the potential offered to us by the current statutory framework. I can't hear how with so much left to do in Catalonia with your own competitions you're all day planting everything you'd do if you were to be I don't know what. Why aren't they worried about what they're supposed to do? Because much of the skills that today are in the hands of the Government of Catalonia are not developed. Miri, this bill of law that you have presented generates false expectations, but also opens the doors to privatization. Eva Granados said so. But not only to the privatization of management, which is now, but to the privatization of the model of financing of social protection. And, if not, I hope that they will accept our goal to the totality that, in this sense, makes it very clear. We would also like to highlight our bet for the territorial decentralisation of the Social Protection Agency. The assemblies are playing a central role, they are the administrations that are in the front line of fire, that face daily dramas, in a situation of social emergence, that many times do it without competition, and they do not complain about this, because it is not their competence, but it is their responsibility. They have no resources, but with a clear political will they face it; you serve social gatherings that are often overflowing, and your professionals let you know, and it turns out that when it comes to presenting a bill of law, you, Together for the Yes and the UPC, are oblivious to the key role of gatherings. And not only that, but they make an express declaration of a centralized model of Catalan social protection agency. Is this the new country they want to build for us? A centralized country in Barcelona? No, on the contrary, what this Social Protection Agency needs is a deep territorial decentralisation, which is what we have set ourselves, because it is the key. As, for example, it also requires the establishment of a government programme contract with the Social Protection Agency, which sets objectives, commitments, systems of reporting and evaluation of policies – evaluation of policies –, the great oblivion of all public policies in general, and especially of this government. All this that we are putting forward with this bill that we have jointly drafted, which we have worked together with the Socialist Group's partners, is not in Juntes' proposal for the Yes and the UPC. That's why we presented this item to the totality. And it's not for a very obvious reason: because you're more concerned to stage the disconnection than to build useful tools to serve the better of social protection, and that loses you objective, and from here, the result you present us today. Catalonia Yes, we can bet very clearly on a key role of social and trade union organizations in the government of the Social Protection Agency. And I take this opportunity to greet the company Antònia Pasqual, representing the Workers' Commissions, and the other companies of the unions that are here. You fill the mouth of civil society, but with your project you place the role of social organizations and trade unions in a residual way, for example, as you have done in the elaboration of this proposal of law: you have evaded the social dialogue and have evaded the opinion of the Council of Labour, Economic and Social, which is the key, which is binding, with the law that we have approved in Catalonia. Social and trade union groupings and organizations must hold a key role in the future Social Protection Agency. I want to go into a subject that you have evaded, but as I am used to, we are all used to saying one thing and its content... Here it is said: "No, this is a state structure, and no one has said that one of the obvious objectives of this Catalan Social Protection Agency is the management of common social security; that is, the creation of own social security. But you haven't said it, but I've got a bunch of amagatotis, which is what you've been getting used to lately, huh? To see that they do things and convince those who are convinced that this is what they will say they do, but in practice they always love it. Well, I want to place myself in this chamber to discuss the possible Catalan social security debate, if you want; but clearly, with documents, with political criteria, rigorously, not with acts of faith, which is what is being done on many occasions. We would be delighted to do so and we would be delighted to say that for Catalonia Yes, it is social security that is today the main instrument of solidarity between workers and workers, and we want to preserve it, as it exists, improving it, but preserving it. Trashing social security, increasing Catalonia's sovereignty and improving pensions, which would provoke exactly the opposite. Let's see if we understand, in a globalized economy, raising legal borders in terms of social security, labour legislation or taxation on capital and businesses, which is not more sovereign for Catalonia, but rather increasing the opportunities for employment, social and fiscal dumping in Catalonia. And I understand that the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia and its liberal economists travel companies to Junts for Yes love the idea of putting together workers, one against the other, I understand; what I can't hear, I can't hear from one another, is that the Republican Left and the CUP are aiming at this ultra-liberal competitiveness strategy of putting together to compete with one another in a matter as definite, as definitive, as the issue of social security. Let me make it clear: we don't want to see Martorell's SEAT workers competing with Landaben's workers, in Navarre, or from Almussafes to see who accepts less quotes to make their company more competitive. We do not want to see the workers of Nissan, or the transporters, or any other sector of workers and workers competing with the workers of other rights of Spain to see who lowers their contributions to make their industry more competitive, and, as a result, also lower pensions. We do not want what is now going on between the Catalan and Spanish workers and those of Slovakia and Romania to pass between the workers of Catalonia and those of València. Because in a globalised economy having social security would clearly imply a competition to reduce contributions; it is passing between the states of the European Union at this time. Fix - well, let us not raise borders, let us do the opposite; that at these times we need to go towards the harmonization of European social security, and, above all, do not weaken an instrument of solidarity as we have. This would not allow to increase the sovereignty of Catalonia, it would only serve to increase the sovereignty of enterprises, economic powers and, especially, of the financial sector, which is taking care of the possibility that social security does not matter to the great war booty of privatizing social security through pension funds. The way we propose them is absolutely different from what you are planting. And above all, please – please – do not play with people's expectations or expectations. The people who have minimum pensions, as it's normal, if they tell them to push their pensions, they like to listen to it, and they believe it. And you're deceiving them. And they're playing with the most important feelings that people have, which is their sense of survival; they're playing with the anguish of a lot of people. You know that's not possible. In these moments the Spanish social security has closed with a deficit of 16,000_million euros per year, of which about 4,000_million correspond to Catalonia. And it is embarrassing that those who voted for the Labour Reform of the People's Party in Madrid, who, with their precariousness of contracts and wages, are the main cause of the fall in contributions and, therefore, of the shortage of social security, are coming here to say that what they want is Catalan social security to boost pensions. No; with their policies, they can never raise pensions, they will always go down, because you are swaying what is determining to finance pensions, which is the contributions by contribution through your precarious bets. The salary mass of Catalan pensions is at this point in time in EUR 22,000 million per year, which is financed by contributions from employers and workers. I insist, Catalonia has had in 2015 an imbalance between admissions and expenses of 3,754_million euros, the most important behind Andalusia. And you have a very complicated situation. Catalonia has today a mid-term pension expenditure higher than the Spanish mid-term pension. For different reasons: first, because our women were incorporated before the labour market and, therefore, we are more pensioners than others; secondly, because our pensions are higher because the contributions, in their moment, were, but now they are not, because the privatization policies have equaled the wages of the Catalan and Spanish workers. That is why this imbalance is structural and you cannot say what they say, that this would increase sovereignty and improve the pensions of Catalan workers and workers. It can't be, and especially what it can't be is that you tell them that they will do it unilaterally. You've reached a level of delusion that's spreading it. So, you say – you say – that the workers and the companies will continue to insert their entrances into the three-way of Spanish social security, because they have already said that they will not put them in this weave to choose this – said Mr Puigdemont – and, in turn, pensions will pay them you. Can you explain to me how you can explain this disconnection? Can you explain how through a unilateral decision you will manage Catalan social security? Is it that they don't see that they're reaching a level of deliriousness that tracks the most slick situation that has ever been produced? In what way? How do you plan to pay for these responsibilities? Miri, what the Catalan Government and the groups that support it must do is to devote themselves to managing the benefits on which they have competence, which is needed, and to speed up the entry into force of the guaranteed income of citizens. And if you ever want to talk about social security, let's talk about it, but in depth and with important data, because you know... – you know – I have to recognize one thing, that when it comes to theological debates you are unbeatable, it's an act of faith and here none of the guanya, but when it comes to discussing data, as Vice President Junqueras well knows, then the thing is already a little more complicated, from this point of view. I say to them, look to my face, those who have presented this subject, say truthfully: you do not believe that the text that we have presented by the Socialist Group and Catalonia Yes, it can be technically and politically much better than the proposal of Juntes Law for the Yes and the CUP? If you are really concerned about social protection and not to make empty gestures every day I am sure that you would vote for our speech to the whole with the alternative text, but clearly, today we are at another stage, today you are at that stage of 'all for the question of trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.268.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Then, to turn against it, has the word Mrs. Mireia Vehi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.269.0	Thank you, President. Before anything else, clarify that yes, that this will be an agency, at the moment, autonomous. It's just that they've been repeating it... I mean, the first ones we've said. Yeah, it'll be an autonomous agency. It is an agency that is essential to build the Catalan Republic. And yes, we are independent, yes, assume it. And we're generating summer structures. From here, it's already, I mean, not that we go back into loop every time. As usual. The PP. It's no joke, Mr. Fernando, we're talking about serious things and we're talking about guaranteeing rights, more. And the CUP didn't swallow anything, the CUP bets to generate public state structures – and now, when you're going to challenge, I'm going to explain –, and the CUP bets for a process that can leave the 78 chain and also the "clean airs of which you speak, don't let them wander green clothes and enter for the Diagonal". To Ciutadans. The Generality, until now, did not have the agency because the Constitutional Court had challenged the additional provision of the last legislature, an additional provision which is now valid because the literality of the text was in the future, which, if so called serious... the truth is that it is quite absurd. And on the social security portfolio, the law of dependency, the law 14/2010, etc., there are other issues, Mr. García, but since the three of them, and he has dealt with the participation of the CUP in the question of the law of guaranteed citizen income, which participates a little, yes, and I will explain to him why; and I will explain to him why from the paper that his group is making in this question of law: he is trying to spread misery, he is trying to limit access, yes, limit access and worry about whether people scam the State to collect six hundred three euros. This is in a context of crisis; the crisis that these Catalans that you so much regard as suffering and so much. And guaranteed citizenship more than a placebo is a shame in the terms you're discussing. To the PSC. You see, the Catalan Agency for Social Protection does not manage rights, it is a carcass, we have said, therefore, I do not know, you say that yours – Mr Coscubila has also said – is much more extensive. I, the truth is, I read the two of them and what I see a little more poor is his, but, well. You said: "Useful and realistic. He also said: "Governor of lefts and lefts in a three-way style [[relays]] and management contract to an autonomous body. A management contract what do you mean? It means concerts, it means laxity in the control of money... ; this does open the door to privatization, Mrs. Granados, that does. Also, in its alternative text, there is also the ability to appoint direct staff, when at the other, to the position that we have presented, it is still of public control and management; therefore, more and more able to put them to said. And the board executes that you're planting too is not a good example, of that. And municipalities and locals, read 'Article IV', and you will see that it is also foreseen. Mr. Coscubiela, the guaranteed citizen income, you thought that you would have a little more critical analysis of the subject, do not make any demagogic because you are also participating from a perspective of spreading misery. The CUP, we have not spoken fifty times, bet for universal income. And you know what? That we're alone in this room, and you're already doing well with this guaranteed citizen income. And speaking of the Workers' Commissions and the social dialogue, of course, you... when I was handling the tripartite and was Secretary General of the Workers' Commissions, you signed that part of the member of the staff would be employed in the pension plans of the "Caixa". Was that what he was talking about? [[Widow's remorse.]] Why do we have doubts, huh? , of the paper they've played [[some applause]] Workers' and UGT committees in the protection of pensions [[the remorse of the voice persists]] We have doubts. I recommend you go and see [[Funnel veils]] – relax's–, recommend them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.270.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.271.0	... that you went to see a play that is said to make you a banker, they have done it now—they have done it now—it's very nice and they pull out Workers' Commissions, and UGT too, in all the practical ills that we can take to the light, because, of course, as you fill the mouths of public bodies and social justice... Let's talk about everything. Look, we don't justify it... because it's been said here a few times that the CUP is eaten and the CUP is stopped eating. We do not justify the details or mismanagements but in this Parliament neither the PSC, nor the Initiative, nor the PP can give us lessons from nothing. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, we're here at our joints we have to fix the shit they own, like Sabadell, like Sant Cugat, etc. Now, they don't call the process corrupt and excuses for mismanagement when you're refusing to break with a rule and with a political and client-management model, demophobic and often corrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.272.0	Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.273.0	To ask the MP of the CUP to please remove her words and explain why.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.274.0	Can we finish the debate and then the gift?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.275.0	Yes, yes, yes, as soon as...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.276.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.277.0	...you're the president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.278.0	The word has Mr. Chakir the Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.279.0	I'll go quickly, run out of time. Well, let's get started. First, thank you all; we've had a debate, I think it's okay. There are differences, quite differences. Mr. Fernando, when I was listening to him, the first one that came to my head is the hortelan dog, but then I came to the head with an element that you said..., and it was a book that for a long time was a reference book for the socialist world, it's very curious; and it's a book..., to read I think it's interesting, that it's not an elephant. That is, the ability to generate debate macros around a parallel reality. I mean, if I bring the debate to my side, there's no problem; with which we haven't talked about the agency, we've talked about other things, and the only thing he said about the agency is 'conservative' – conservative, conservative. Here I take the opportunity to answer everyone, because everyone has been giving it by guess, and I..., sometimes suddenly; when it is said that the governing council is attended by the social and economic agents represented, I do not get involved in anything more than the unions and employers; but, well, here every one says what he wants. Don't think about an elephant. Mr. Garcia, I'd ask you for a little respect. Because I think that using, as you said, supremacist theories, I think that sometimes, there... we pass; and we pass from thread to many things. I'd ask you to respect that. I'd ask you a lot of respect, because what we're doing is... well, what we're doing is making a big deal out of very, very hard things that I think we should think about. From here, I, in the background, in all his..., interventions, also passed me through the head some count. To me I remembered... it's that in the background they treat the citizens and citizens like the rats that went after the music of Hamelín. I think that sometimes when we treat the citizens like useless, stupid people who don't have the ability to think for themselves, we treat ourselves this way. And sometimes we cheat around these basic rules that I get. Everyone talked about guaranteed income with a very important facility, huh? I mean, of course, like here the only people we're talking about... curiously, about the ones we've come out of, that we're the See and I, everybody hasn't talked about it– everybody has talked about it. He's doing a brutal job. I'd say the only one who hasn't missed a meeting is the lord they have here in front: a young lord, we, as you say; but you've heard me. [[Widow's remorse.]] We're getting together a little bit this week, we're doing a job that's very important. And, besides, it's thanks to me because the alternative text, which is based and which focuses on the debate on guaranteed citizenship income..., two parliamentary groups tell me that they have such a different view of guaranteed income, that they are the first..., that we are discussing, because there are many different visions. I think sometimes that's to use... I'm upset, because we're making an all-fold effort, very important. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If you weren't when the Joan Garcia intervened, please shut up. I'm serious about that. [[Greetings.]] Because in the end, we're going there directly. Another element... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.280.0	Please, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.281.0	Another element that... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.282.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.283.0	Yeah? [[Pause.]] It's just that I'll explain it to them: I'm a very simple person, and being simple means I can't talk while someone's talking on the side; that's how I don't have that ability. From here, another element that you have all had: the ICASS. And they talked about ICASS. Suddenly, to talk to me about the ICASS when the proposal we are making has a completely different kind of organization..., everyone talks about the participation of the agents and talks about the ICASS. This possible participation was not the same. Gentlemen, we plant a different element from ICASS; licit and legitimate, but different. As far as locals are concerned, they can find him at the law. It's just that sometimes... it's been a long time, because... they've talked to me on various occasions in 4.2, about the financial entities, which allows privatizing... gentlemen, this is something they can't find at the agency; I guess I say it and say it and say it and end up bringing it to the macro. Because, in the end, what they end up with is giving a lesson. And end up giving lessons all the time. Of course, I, already, have listened so much to the reform of the labour market since I came out here..., that I always speak: "the reforms of the labour market. And here I'm still more grateful, because, of course, that's what I'm told that presents an alternate text together with a force that made a pension reform that meant a 20_percent reduction in pensions – Mr. Zapatero – of pensioners. Well, like here alone, it's thought of past for the others and not for what you do, I find it quite curious – I find it quite curious. Look, I'm the only one I've just enjoyed all the debate we've had is that, around this alternative proposal – that we look at it and so on – I think it's very clear that there's a different vision, and it's that you're telling us that we're still realistic and pragmatic, that we don't go beyond competition; Mr. Coscubila has said it clearly. We think that well-thought-out politics must have a point of Utopia's will. And we'll have it, because, if not, they can't change, because, if not, it's "climbing the sky is a slogan and it's already there. Because then, to the reality that we find ourselves are proposals so realistic and pragmatic that they never change reality, and we are willing to look at the present and the future...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.284.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.285.0	...and not rely on the past. Thank you, President. [[Greetings. Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.286.0	Mr. Coscubila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.287.0	Thank you, Madam President. Company Vehi, I already know that you're used to accounting for everyone and that no one can tell you anything, it's the rule of the game, but I think you'll have to get used to it that everyone has equal conditions. It's not all gone, and above all it's not going to be lying and imputing to another MP things that are false. I have never signed an agreement with the Public Workers' Pension Fund Privatization Box, ever. And you either deny it now, or you'll have to deny it in another place. [[Widow's remorse.]] Neither I nor the Workers' Commissions. I'm asking you – I'm asking you. You're betraying a fake article that has been denied to the current workers' commissions. I've never signed it. And ask, please, to take back what you said, because it's not all gone. Lying and imputing to other Members things that have not been done is not part of the rules of good parliamentary play. Company Vehi, and I'm asking you to take it off. Neither I nor the Workers' Commissions, in their moment, when I was secretary general, we did what you accused us of. I don't know what the Workers' Committees will do, which has already denied it; I know what I'm doing: ask yourself if you please don't use the infuses and lies as a political weapon. The Inquisition was created in Catalonia and Oceania before Spain, and some seem to want to resurrect her at these moments. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.288.0	Please. Mr. Joan García, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.289.0	For allusions, too. [[Pause.]] Mrs Vehi, after what Mr Coscubiela said to him – he will answer later, however – only clarify one thing. First, those who have downsized and those who are distributing this misery are their Junts for the Yes, who have downgraded this proposal that Ciutadan made from six hundred to four hundred euros of the guaranteed income of citizenship – first. Second, I don't know why they didn't go; they've only been there twice, which was when the press went. So, Mrs. Vehi, maybe this moral superiority that always shows what I should do is cut it out, okay? , and do it with a certain modesty. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.290.0	Mrs. Eva Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.291.0	For allusions too, President. [[Pause.]] Yes, quickly. I believe that if something has become clear after this debate, it seems that there is very little willingness to talk about social protection in this Parliament by some groups and that it seems that even those who have signed the bill have not read the same law they are proposing, for which they have said and for which they have commented in this leaflet. And, lastly, I also want to call on the deputies of the Republican Left, who also ruled this country, who made a government of the left, who spoke of how to make the ICASS, how to make the Law of Social Services, and who with this law and all that they are holding and supporting by Convergence, and Convergence and Union in its moment, are squandering the development of the Law of Social Services that was approved in this Parliament by unanimity. Thank you. [[Greetings. Fernando Sánchez Costa asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.292.0	Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.293.0	Yes, Madam President, for allusions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Home...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.294.0	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.295.0	Yeah. So, I, just a point, because we're so tired of feeling that we're missing the famous 78th rule, escort, that I give a level of competence and autonomy..., and that allows, at last, to make some demands..., that you vagnate to make the demands that are being made in France, Italy, Portugal, Germany and see what happens. [[See for yourself and a few applause. Naomi from Sifré Street asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.296.0	Miss De la Calle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.297.0	For contradictions. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, for... well, I've felt alluded to as a member of the paper, and now...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.298.0	Contradictions? You didn't talk...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.299.0	Well... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.300.0	Say it, say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.301.0	Mr Chakir has said that he has been surprised that Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and we have said the same thing when we are two parties that maintain antagonistic positions and that, precisely, we either argue or do not agree. Precisely, Catalunya Yes, that is Pot is a party that has respected the text of the promoter group and we are the party that has presented the least amendments because we found that the text was quite correct. And not once have we discussed or there has been any kind of..., I don't know, differences; with this, let it be understood that the presentation may be being delayed, or whatever, because of the rest of the parties, I'm sorry, but it's not true. [[Chakir the Homrani Lesfar asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.302.0	Mr. Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.303.0	Thank you, President. There are a number of allusions and there is a number of points of order. On the part of allusions, Mrs. Naomi, I did not understand; I did not say that. That's it, that's it. It's also a point of order, and a point of order I think is important. I think that, leaving aside some intervention – that it did follow up with allusions –, I think the last two – leaving aside the one of Mrs. Naomi, that I think she didn't understand me, and that's it – have basically been to have another round of words. There were no references. And I think that, in this sense, what they want is to finish the debate, because, as there is a parliamentary rule that involves there is a certain debate, there is a certain order and that gives the words and who presents the proposal is who closes the debate, did not want to accept this closure of the debate. And I think in this sense it's cheating, with the Rules, and I want to make it clear, because Mrs. Granados' intervention was not allusions. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2102.304.0	We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] In accordance with Rule 114.5 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall proceed first to the joint vote of the two items to the totality which propose the return of the proposal of the Law. The vote begins. The draft resolution was rejected by 33 votes to 71, with 27 abstentions. As these two items to the totality, back from the proposal, have been rejected, also according to Article 114.5 of the Rules, we shall now proceed to the vote of the item to the totality with alternative text. The vote begins. The draft resolution was rejected by 27 votes to 79, with 25 abstentions. As the papers have been rejected, the proposal for the creation law of the Catalan Social Protection Agency continues its processing. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Thank you all very much. It is suspected that the session will begin tomorrow morning, at nine, with the code of conduct.
