ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.1.0	Good morning, everybody. I'm told that all the interveners are here and, as we're almost forty-five minutes away from voting, we're about to begin. So, if it sounds good to you, let's resume the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the right to decent work and the generation of occupation]] [[302-00013/11]] The next item on the agenda is the motion following the question to the Government about the right of decent work and the generation of occupation, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot, and has the word Mr. Marc Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.2.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselors, deputies, deputies, have a very good day. First of all, let me thank the participation of all the groups providing papers to this young man, who as a consequence has had a whole series of transactions and acceptance of some papers, which in any case we will talk about later on in the positioning round on these papers. In the question we asked, we wanted to talk more about what we said about entering it. That's to say, what can be done while it's not all that some groups say they want to do in these splits. And, in this case, with the counselor we were going to match a lot in the analysis. Then the doubt was in whether this analysis and the consequences were merely rhetorical or willing to carry them out. And the measures of the motion that we present are those measures that can be done in this entertainment and with the tools that we have, not with the tools that we suppose we will have. Because he was trying to believe in a model, in a model of labor relations, or in another model. Moreover, in the later Plenary of Social Emergencies, some questions that we can address today are approved because they are not rhetorical either. It's to say that it's not that more than patriotic poetry we add a certain revolutionary prose, but that at the time of truth it's all in a decoration of those that make the films of the far west. What am I talking about, then? I'm talking about the brand of labor relations, first place. That is to say, the set of labor relations that we could have today if we concretely have an instrument that you function as a stable space. And also to give priority in the Commission of the Process constitute to the ideological debate, to the debate of foundations, of which should be our model of labor relations that we want. Because so far, as you know, what some of us in the current government have wanted is the same set of labor relations that we have in Madrid. Exactly the same. Of the most outdated liberalism of Madrid, to be more accurate. But, also..., talking about labor reform, which, as you know, has already been said here, is the mother of all the battles, we will approve, some against, it seems to me, in the past plenary, that we were against it... So, well, more than being against it, what would we do to be credible and not just to do what we could say in... in the postureo? So in the youth we offer two paths, which are not incompatible, but complementary. The first is to take advantage of the current parliamentary majority in the Congress of Deputies to repeal it. And the second, if we repeal it would prove the government's will, real..., we draw up a bill here to present to the Congress of Deputies to recover all those aspects of labor legislation that the different reforms have carried out..., unprotectiveness, lack of collective bargaining, etcetera. Then, what we are asking for is planning; a plan of unemployment, taking advantage of the fact that we already have a _mark that is the Interprofessional Agreement, which was signed last year, which lays the groundwork for the recovery of the occupation, making incidence, logically, in the most vulnerable collectivities. Also, in relation to the SOC, such as the statutory deployment of the law, we insist on the need for this to be a public service that has allocated all the necessary resources. And then we also have an occupation with alarming, very alarming, quality, failure of the Law of Prevention, excessive accidents at work, discrimination on grounds of gender... And, therefore, we understand that it would be appropriate to establish a timetable for measures to be taken and that it would be necessary to plan concrete and specific actions of the work inspection to ensure that these facts are not produced. And in relation to wages, in relation to wages, the councilwoman, in her intervention, apologized for saying that this was a matter of collective bargaining, and she is quite certain. But what's the government's intention? Do we have the one we don't have? Yes, we do. We propose here four, four ways: to promote concertation in the field of wages to reach an agreement with a global character between the parts in order to dignify the wages and to recover them; secondly, in the market of this concertation, we try to fix a minimum wage of reference which you serve in a mandatory way for those enterprises that you contract with the Generality; thirdly, we encourage agreements of city, despite the fact that we do not have competences, but the Government does know what it can do to push them, because local administrations can do the same, that is to say, define a minimum wage of city which you serve as a reference for the contracts of these administrations with companies, and, in quarter, we review the income indicator of European ownership. Therefore, there are many things we can do from Catalonia to progressively stop wages from rising without the need to change state laws. That's all you can do. Finally, to ensure a pro-activity for companies in crisis; I don't have much time left to extend myself there, but what is clear is that you already see it, that in the meantime – and I finish, President – you can do many things, because no matter what measures the proposals in the motion, except one, that are the resources for the SOC, involve presuppositional changes, but that they involve concrete government actions for a determined, less precarious, work model, and that takes into account the right to a decent job, as I defended in the inquiry. Thank you very much. Then I'll position it on the desks. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.3.0	To defend the papers presented, the words of Mr Pol Gibert, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.4.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone, and also to those who are making caravans to the Litoral round, that we are many of us. From our group we have a positive appreciation of the motion presented for Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and most of the points I have counted. We share a lot of your content, and now I'm going to want to go into some detail with some aspects, right? We all obviously consider it a priority to address the issue of the world of work, and this young man does, and above all to achieve, also, to draw agreements in this chamber to force the generation of occupation and decent work. This is also demonstrated by our young man, who can then talk about it calmly and who is on this line in more concrete terms. For what it does to the text itself, we have wanted to contribute some ideas, which have followed the majority of reflections for the Catalonian group Yes it is Pot. In some sense, for example, one of them is that what we want to do is to highlight the skills we have in the field of the State, in Article 45.4, to try to exploit what we already have, which we believe is a priority, and which with this mark we can push or try to tackle certainly anomalies that we have in front of the reform of the labour market, right? , and place the emphasis on social dialogue, collective bargaining or out-of-court conflict resolution. As for the plans of rock, which we have always seen announced with great pump, but which we have then seen applied with less pump, we believe that they should go to these collections in a priority way: the young, the majors of forty-five years and the long-lasting stops. So let's celebrate that this last collection has been incorporated into the final motion, as we believe that it is very urgent to act on this, as we demonstrated with our question to the Government yesterday. For what it does to the review of the youth guarantee program, it is obvious that it is necessary to re-evaluate the 2016 performance plan to ensure that it generates a quality occupation. So far, I'm afraid we've been subsidizing with public funds some ways of looking for work that are precarious, and it would just be missing that with public funds we've made this type of model. And obviously, to do so, and to get to the bottom of the issue and as many young people as possible, we think that it's going to be from the hands of youth organizations, such as unions or others who have a deep knowledge of the young people's situation. Why? So why do we think the youth guarantee sometimes isn't up where it should come from? We think there are young people who don't even know the program and we need to look for different ways to get there, and that's why we think that from the hands of youth entities is a good way to do it. For what he does to the debate on minimum wages, we consider that it was basic to include a reference to the current Administration that has skills on the subject, and that is the State. That is why asking the State for its increase is vital and, moreover, doing so in line with the European Social Charter seems indispensable to us. On the other hand, apart from the debates about reference wages or city wages that are on the table, we believe that it is essential to have a minimum European wage; we believe this because it would obviously help to reduce inequalities in the European Union and, moreover, to converge towards European standards, which are higher than our own. Finally, where we cannot agree, and so we regret, it is with the connection in certain aspects that the motion includes for what it does to the Constituent Procedure Study Commission. They already know that the position of this group is not enthusiastic about this committee and, therefore, at this point we disagree, but for the rest they can count on our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.5.0	Next, the words of Mr Enric Millo, of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.6.0	Thank you, very honourable President of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to everyone. From the reading of the motion presented for Catalonia Yes, it's Pot, the first reaction I've had is..., man, there's a very important background discrepancy in what is the foundational approach you make at the time of defending your proposals. You're starting from an approach that we don't share politically; already from the ideological point of view the whole movement has a very deep load of interventionism and, in our view, does not respect what we understand as a genuine social dialogue. Plus, we don't share that principle that we have to wait seven or months. We don't share it, we think it's supposed to go face-to-face, from the entrance, don't we? And so, the first thing I thought was: listen, I could do it now, so tell them that, as we do not ideologically share their views, we would vote that not everything – we would vote that not everything – that is exactly what you did a week ago in the plenary on the poor: "As those of the PP, we do not agree with what they think, nor do we read the contents of their proposals; we vote that not everything that comes from the PP. I could do the same now, but if I did, I'd be as sectarian as you, and I'm not. It's not me, and it's not my parliamentary group either. We do not vote on the basis of who makes the proposals, we vote on the basis of what they contain. If we agree, we will vote against them; if we believe that we can reach an agreement, we will agree, and if not, we will vote against it. I'm telling you this in this intervention, because I also want to tell you, Mr Vidal, that I appreciate the fact that you have taken into account some of the issues that we have presented. And I think it's a good way– I think it's a good way–; so good is a different way of working and doing parliamentarianism here in Catalonia, and that we move away and get rid of this way of doing politics forever, so disastrous and so harmful, that it does nothing but hate, say "no to what comes from that, because to everything you see from that I say no. I don't think that's the best way to do politics. Now, it's true that we've presented some papers, you haven't accepted two of us, you haven't traded a third; so I appreciate this dialing; it's also been ours since the first moment, but I can't help but remember that there are some important questions about this young man that we don't share. But, besides, I don't share it..., it's hard, including, to admit some of the statements you made in the same inquiry that you repeated today, isn't it? And I refer, in concrete terms, to the partial, skewed value and to my tendentious understanding that you usually do what it has meant, what it is and what labor reform has meant. When you talk about this work mark, that you are the mother of battles, that is to be fought, that so much harms us, that so much harms us, that so much harms us, it turns out that the results endorse all the contrary. And I want to mention it, because you were insistently repeating this song that labor reform has done us so much harm. But, in turn, the labour reform that has done is to promote, precisely, internal flexibility for companies that have as its objective to avoid as many accommodations as there were in the previous labour market. Or is it that the 3_million_i_mig of jobs that were lost with the previous job mark have nothing to do with the previous job mark? If there was a rigid labour market, which only gave as a solution, before a crisis situation, the expulsion of the labour market, it was necessary to give flexibility, as the alternative, precisely, to the approximation, and the modernization, therefore, of collective bargaining, also as a key instrument. This is why measures have been taken in the field of contracting, and very concrete programmes, since the Administration of the Government of Spain, which have allowed the occupation to reactivate. And I only have a few dates that I want to remember, because if I don't do it, you'll never do it, and I like that you do, right? Today, in Catalonia, there are 131,000 people who have suffered less than the February of 2012, when the People's Party government legislature began. In the last year the number of farms in Catalonia has fallen to seventy thousand people. On February 2012, the number of adults in Catalonia was growing at a rate of 7_per_cent, and today is returning that rate to '11_per_cent. Moreover, the contractation, concretely indefinite, was reduced to a rate of 26,8_per_cent, before, and today it is reduced to a rate of 16_per_cent. Therefore, there are elements and there are indications that they prove that it is not true what you say. Today in Catalonia there are 48,200 persons younger than twenty-five years old than the average of that legislature, and 24,800 persons younger than twenty-five years old than one year ago; 10,700 persons more than the average of that legislature. In twelve months the number of autonomes has increased by 12,500. And all this is not random, it is the result, precisely, of those measures and of that reform. In Catalonia, 68,103 people have signed a new, indefinite contract to support entrepreneurs, peppers and autonomists. In 2007, 69,2_per_cent of the workers had an indefinite contract...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.7.0	Mr. Millo, I know it's hard, but you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.8.0	I'm done, President. Today's 73 per cent. So there's a substantial improvement. And finally, Madam Counselor, I would like to thank you for being present at the debate on the motions, which the members of the Government do not always do, but I want to say one thing: we do not agree with managing the 'while'. While you're at it, tell the people that you're at it that while they're waiting or being fucked – speaking clearly – it doesn't seem right to you. We believe that action must be taken and the Government must act, it cannot be in the 'while'. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.9.0	Next, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí, of the Parliamentary Group Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.10.0	Good morning. From the CUP - Creed They constitute, in general terms, the motion seems very adequate to us. Still, there are three aspects to which we disagree. First of all, we do not agree, and we have communicated it to the Member, to address the issue of the Catalan mark of labour relations to the Constituent Procedure Commission, eh? , the issue of the product model and discussion of contents, in labor terms, to the Constituent Procedure Commission, because we understand that the Constituent Procedure Commission has to deal with the methodology and forms as to make this process constitute, as to establish a regime break and to lay down the mechanisms to make, or to elaborate a participatory constitution from the bottom up and from the left. Therefore, at this point we will abstain. Also tell him that we are a lot, with a lot of winnings, and we believe that it is very necessary to bet on a catalyse framework of labour relations, but that we understand that we in the Spanish State do not have to ask for anything and we do not have to demand that we change labour legislation, but we need to build our own and make it work. And then, we now want to give two reflections. There is much talk of unions and the need for unions and employers, and others, and citizens to come to agreements, which unions guarantee rights. It seems pretty good to us, but what's going on is that we don't understand that it can't happen is what's normally going on with the concert unions. And we want to remember the case of Eulen, that last Tuesday we were accompanying the workers to a court, that when the assembly of workers rejects an agreement to collect twenty-six days, the day after the unions of the Workers and UGT and USO arrive at an agreement with the employer for twenty-six days. We understand that this is intolerable and that this is not guaranteeing workers' labor rights or fighting it. And finally, we want to end with another reflection, this goes a little further than the young man, but it does, in a way, make a point of the concept of work that has been distilled. We understand that it is a concept of narrow work, strictly linked to it recognized as production, to it recognized as valid work, and that, in one band, it excludes a whole series of jobs as could be reproductions and cures, which we believe are essential in terms of recognition, and, in another band, it also excludes subjects of right arising from this work produced, for example people who are migrated; there is no reference in that sense. We understand that if we sweep the perspective of gender and the perspective of cultural origin we find, for example, the case of domestic workers, who are in a working situation of exploitation and extreme precariousness, and that this young man makes no reference. Therefore, we did want to give this reflection to respect for our own debates and our own work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.11.0	Next, the words of Mr. Francisco Javier Domínguez, of the Grupo Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.12.0	President..., good morning to all present, and to whom they are not, they have not arrived. My intention in this intervention is to make very clear the position of my group, Ciutadans, and explain the meaning of our vote. But first of all I want to explain something that really tastes very hard to us, and it is that we come from an extraordinary ple of poor people who have been treated with fears that arise today in this movement and it turns out that the Catalonian Group Yes, it can be positioned from the following ways respect some concrete points, which are: respect for economic reactivation, that we find it basic for the occupation, it has abstained; measures against the long-term nature..., and decent wages, and job insecurity, they voted no. I suppose his reasons have to be. But I'm afraid this position is more of a game. If there are other reasons, we'll comment on them, but they may be guidelines given from the top. I think they weighed more on the guidelines than the real interest in solving problems. The motion, in concrete terms, is grouped into packages. The first chapter, which is of the labor relations marc... We understand that if we start the motion talking about processes they constitute, and create a Catalan marc of relationships, and..., we are already going badly. For us, the important is not the mark, but the content. Therefore, as it is a matter of competence which the Government of Spain claims, at present, I do not think it is worth continuing to talk about it, at this very moment. Second block, from labor reform. I have one more thing: that I don't do everything right or the other does everything wrong. So, when I see the word "repeat and take it all away, maybe at some point..., but we like it better to "reform. In this sense, I regret that you have not accepted this message to say'reform'. Naturally, Ciutadans is in favour of reviewing issues such as collective bargaining, agreements, co-operation causes, etc. The third package, or the Pla de scoc for the occupation. Naturally, Ciutadans is in favour of fighting against the dark, and always will be. That's why we filed the motion against the long-running tour, and your group voted no. Last week, no, and now, yes. Regarding the SOC occupation service, it exposes itself to your reason that it is of..., public character, free, of the SOC, the best human resources for the offices to get a better service... Naturally, we agree with this point. Episode 5, which is the quality of the occupation. Another time, naturally, Ciutadans we agree to improve the quality of employment in matters of security, equality and non-discrimination for reasons of sex, origin, age, etc. And we get to pay dignity. Here, thank you for accepting the little message we presented. We agree with a decent salary for the worker. And, therefore, we will give support to all the points that I am talking about guaranteeing a minimum wage. But we will not support other issues that involve dividing the rights of the working class according to the autonomous community in which they live or work. Again, I'm sorry..., and I find your group's recovery missing from last week's motion to the plenary to guarantee a decent salary, which you voted against. Another time last week, no, and now, yes. And lastly, with the package of companies in crisis we also agree. We will give you support, because we will give support to any initiative aimed at preventing the relocation of businesses. But let's not be fooled: more than global motii, they also tank businesses for economic and labor motii. There's recent news, yesterday, that I understand it's good news, that Ercros intends to invest 28_million euros... You know what Ercros is, he's been out here some time. So he'll invest them at the Sabiñánigo plant. It is Ercros, the same Ercros that closes the plant of Flix and reduces to a minimum the plant of Vila-seca. It is clear that we have run away from entrepreneurs leaving for Zaragoza, Madrid or Bilbao..., and those who, directly, no longer come because they see in other autonomous communities other options better, that there has not been any instability or uncertainty that give the process, disconnection, and the threat of rupture and haste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.13.0	Next, has the word Lord Bernat Solé, from Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.14.0	Thank you, President. Benvolguts Members, Members, Councillors, Vice President, probably, the context and content on which the motion is based that at these times we debate..., and I want to think that they are and will be synonymous with consensus and dialogue in all parliamentary groups. Defending the right to decent work in the broadest diversity and under the premise of equality and quality is and must be one of the priorities of any parliamentary chamber. Precisely, it has been in this debate foreshadowed by this young man when we have been able to prove the long way in which our parliamentary group can share with different groups in this Parliament. Attaining the common and essential objective to achieve, we have been able to reach agreements in good part of the proposed points. We share the imminent need, and also the priority of the current government, to have a catalysmal framework of stable labour relations, as well as all the instruments that vertebrate. And, faithful to the clear and historic tradition of our country in the framework of the social dialogue, we need more than ever to have its own legislation in the field of work that allows us to undo these rights, than at these times we do not believe that they are covered. And all we need is to urge a Spanish government that neither looks at us nor wants to look at us. That is why I invite you to share this longer way, a way that allows us to establish all these necessary instruments from this very Parliament to ensure that we have agreed. And, on this path, from Juntas to Yes we find that there are some travel companies missing, with those who share the object for the time being, and I hope that for a little while, we still do not share the path. Precisely, and as in many occasions the Lower Councillor has expressed, we have not given priority to this need. There is no better social policy than decent work. For this reason, it is in the framework of the action plan implemented for the parliamentary group that I represent and promoted for the Government of our country through its action plan..., an action plan that already incorporates urgent measures aimed at the recovery of the occupation and the improvement of the employability of the unemployed, with a particular focus on all those most vulnerable, young, older than forty-five years and long-term unemployed, through the public employment service offices of Catalonia and from the use of the resources provided for in the European Social Fund, increasing, for a band, human resources to develop orientation and mediation tasks in the search for occupation, and defining the structure and the relationship of sufficient jobs. For all this, we must make a firm bet on those policies and initiatives that have the objective of quality employment, with rights, wages and decent working conditions, and avoid the further degradation of work that we have, such as young people, who must become the immediate future of our professional fabric. For another band, we cannot design a decent job without ensuring the safety of our workers. And it is in this sense that a priority timetable with urgent measures of prevention and control of activities..., of prevention of enterprises, as foreseen in the Safety and Health Plan 2015-2020, with the following objectives: to improve the recognition of damage to health resulting from work; to monitor the adequacy of work places as an instrument for detecting the effects on the health of occupational risk factors; to promote the project of undertakings promoting health where healthy surroundings are fostered, and to support the reintegration of workers after periods of temporary disability. In the same way, the dignity of work will come when we are able to guarantee principles of equality in work and non-discrimination by reason of sex, origin, age, disability and social condition. For this reason, we urge the Government to present a specific inspection plan that allows us to assess the effectiveness and fulfilment of these fundamental principles. In the same way, we cannot question the possibility of settling wage recovery and the establishment of decent wages through a national agreement in which all the social, trade union and economic agents of our country are present. I don't want to go any further, as I think it has become quite clear that we need to push policies that guarantee this worthy work, for which we will all agree. Pushing policies does not only require volunteering, but also demands responsibility. And responsibility is not to say what one wants to hear, but to say only what one can accomplish. I have begun my intervention by thanking the efforts of some parliamentary groups for the achievement of important agreements, necessary and expected agreements, but at the same time subject to a presuppositional availability. And that's where I invite them to be-there, and to share, if not at all, a good part of the way we have to go to make that happen today. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.15.0	Then, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Mr. Marc Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.16.0	[[The orador lowers the microphone's height.]] You're very tall, aren't you? [[Rialles.]] Thank you, President. Miri, I don't know if in three minutes it'll give me time to explain the multitude of things that have been said. Let me start upside down. To thank Mr. Bernat only the fact of having traded a bunch of points, because, therefore, supposedly, they will approve, and so they will give faith that they can do things, many things, in this meanwhile, which went contrary, exactly, to what Mr. Millo said. Precisely, what we're saying in this young man is: "We're working now, today, and from today on, and we're not expecting to split up. That's exactly what we're talking about. With regard to what Mr Dominguez gave me, we have no contradictions. Simply put, in the emergence plan the motions are voted in a package. If you, in this package, ask us things that we accept and things that are absolutely unacceptable, as you can understand the unacceptable things, then you can't vote. And, therefore, we have probably defended the same things. There is no type of contradiction. Believe me, really. And it respects the words'reform or repeal, miri, the labour reform which has been done is reform. And this is a heavy danger, and we intend to reform again. It's just that. Mrs. Mireia Vehi, respect the issue of whether or not to be included in the Commission of the Constituent Procedure..., you see, we already understand that the process is used to do what you say. Yes, but we also understand that the process is a matter of knowing what lies between, from this process, who are the bases we live in Catalonia, who are the rights that Catalans and Catalans must have. And, therefore, it is totally full of content, which we must do. It's not just methodology. It is the way we understand the issue of the process they constitute. I don't know what this is about from the concept of ‘tight work', because it's about talking about it, whether or not it's about including it... I just wanted you to know that yesterday, precisely, a proposal from In Comú was approved at the Congress of Deputies. We can precisely say this about what you said, respecting the ILO agreement with regard to the workers of the school, for example. So that's not... a minute, is it? Dude. Listen to me, Mr. Millo, we always take into account the PP's ideas, and that's because they're always so annoying to us, as you can understand. The one that happens... that we often don't share the model. And, therefore, we will not accept, as you have said, those items that are not part of the model, that are countered. But we have accepted it from others who are perfectly coincident. I, listen'm, respect the labor reform, agree, it's up to you to defend it, correct. Now, you presided over a committee in the past legislature of the study on the extent to which there was no one who appeared, no analyst there, valued labor reform as an element to reactivate the economy, but as an element that served for internal devaluation, fixed's, you. And they were like, all of them – all of them – political circles, huh? So, well, every defense you can defend. And no, we're not talking about interventionism, absolutely; we're talking about what we can do, today, and what we need to start working on. And, to Mr. Gibert, because..., which I said, obviously we accept most of the issues, and respect the issue of minimum wage, we also accept that we ask for the change also in Madrid, because it is where there is the law that regulates it. Thank you very much. And I hope we can approve most of this young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.17.0	Call it a vote. Why ask me the word, Mrs Vehi?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.18.0	For a separate vote from 1st to 4th.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.19.0	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.20.0	For a separate vote from 1st to 4th.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.21.0	1 and 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.22.0	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.23.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.24.0	For a separate vote on points 1, 3, 4, 13 and 13a. [[Pause. Marta Rovira and Vergés ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.25.0	Mrs. Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.26.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 4, which I believe has already been requested, and point 7b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.27.0	Seven o'clock. [[Pause. Josep Enric Millo and Rocher ask to speak.]] Mr. Millo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.28.0	Yes; also to ask for a separate vote, President; on the one hand, points 1, 2, 3, 4, 13, 13 bis, 14 and 15, and, on the other hand, only points 12, 17 and 18. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.29.0	Let us repeat the points of what we have been asked to vote separately, because we will begin by voting on these points. We have been asked to vote separately from points 1, 2, 3, 4, 7 ter, 12, 13, 13 bis, 14, 15, 17 and 18. (Pause.) All right? (Pause.) Okay. [[Pause. Josep Enric Millo and Rocher ask to speak.]] Mr. Millo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.30.0	Again, President, I've forgiven you. Count, because if he puts them all together... in fact, the voting line of the different groups I think is not the same. If you pack it in a single, you vote for the ones you just read now... if we make them one by one, no problem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.31.0	No, no. No, no, Mr. Millo. I repeated all those who asked for a separate vote, and we would vote separately; we would all vote one by one, and then the rest. But I've done the countdown because everyone confirmed to me that they were these. So now we're going to start by voting point number one. The vote begins. It was approved by 72 votes to 34, with 23 abstentions. Now we're going to vote number two. The vote begins. It was approved by 118 votes to 11, with no abstentions. Now we're voting point number three. The vote begins. It was approved by 95 votes to 11, with 23 abstentions. Now we're voting point number four. The vote begins. It was rejected by 26 votes to 72, with 31 abstentions. Now we're going to vote on point 7b. The vote begins. It was approved by 68 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. Now we're going to vote point 12. The vote begins. It was approved by 119 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. Now we're going to vote point number 13. The vote begins. It was approved by 97 votes to 11, with 23 abstentions. Now we're voting point number 13a. The vote begins. It was approved by 97 votes to 11, with 23 abstentions. Now we're going to vote point number 14. The vote begins. It was approved by 120 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. Now we're voting point 15. The vote begins. It was approved by 120 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. Now we're voting point number 17. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. Now we're going to vote number 18. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. Now we're going to vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the occupation]] [[302-00015/11]] Next, the 14th item on the agenda is the motion following the question to the Government on occupation presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Mr. Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.32.0	Well, thank you, President. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, we come from an occupation movement, which we have just voted on, with a general character, and now we have one more limited one, which wants to respond to current concerns. Our group stressed, in the previous question to the Lower Councilwoman, three very concrete issues that require urgent action on our part; three issues that were equal pay, the crisis of businesses and the situation that the SOC currently sees. Today we have a series of proposals to vote so that we begin to put the needle in these themes. In the area of equal pay..., a subject that concerns us very much, as I suppose many of you, and in which we believe we can begin to make an accurate diagnosis of the situation in our country. That is why we are asking for a report on the effectiveness of active employment policies in this area and also another to find out how the country is doing, making an X-ray of the situation of equal pay at this time. We also consider it important to encourage the Government to publish a list..., of transparency, that it seems obvious that they want to do with a council that has this name, with the presence of gifts to the head of public bodies, companies and other consortia that fall under the Generality. And that, because we believe that with this transparency, this information, we can also know a lot about how we are. On the other hand, it is clear that in this issue we are asking for the earliest possible deployment of the Law of Equality, above all in matters affecting what is the struggle against wage choice. We think it's important to do so, and we also believe that the government has chosen to take it forward. At the same time, we consider that the key to this issue is economic social agents – it could not be otherwise – and that is why we propose a plan of equal pay, to introduce this element to companies. With regard to the second point, the industrial and business crisis that we are living in our country, all of us conscious, many of us seeing..., periodic meetings in Parliament on these issues, with different committees of enterprise, and we believe that we need to know the underlying issues that affect the crisis that we are experiencing in this area. We believe that Parliament and the Government need to make a report on the regulation of the tanks that we live in our country, and we believe that it is important because, from this point on, we can begin to set aside actions that can avoid it and promote proposed actions that encourage new businesses. We think it's vital to generate jobs, because it's obvious, but I need to make it clear, because it's a tape that we have a lot of ourselves and we need to share. That's why we... and our group president, Miquel Iceta, intervened yesterday to put the work pact on the table. We believe that it is a very important element, purpose, that in good faith we are in the hands of the Government because I take it, and bind as much consensus as possible around this issue. It's a country issue, where we can all work together to try to boost our economic growth, and do it with a very simple goal, which is to translate this economic growth into benefiting our people. Our intention is to put on the table..., to put tables and boxes, because different economic and social agents are able to look at different topics, basically three: to discuss the product model that we want as a country, and that we should be clear; to put the social dialogue in the center of the dynamics, and to focus on initiatives that allow us to create occupation. Let us all hope that this initiative, which we believe to be important and which we believe to be a priority, will support the different groups, and have the maximum recovery. Finally, let's face the situation of the SOC. The SOC has been painted in detail, from envelopes known to this Parliament; we have not spoken on other occasions, and we believe that we have to put up with this drift. I am aware that Mrs Bassa is particularly concerned about this, she has said so in different interventions, and that is why we are making proposals that we believe can help this reaction. We believe that fighting against the dark must be a priority – I think it's obvious, right? – But we want to empower the SOC as a real public service essential that we give solutions to ups and downs, that I accompany them in key moments of their life and that I give them a way out in moments of despair. This speech is certainly shared by many of us, but we believe that it is time to move from words to facts and that, if the assumptions are followed, this is demonstrated in this document. We believe it is vital to do so to give out different collections that at these times are in a very precarious situation and that they do not see the SOC as a useful tool, as well as the effort of their staff so that it is. I want to do it and look for resources wherever I go. Politics is a priority, and I think this priority is well worth it. Obviously, the task of the occupation services does not end with the SOC; we want to increase the collaboration between the SOC and the public services that make the assemblies, which we think are very important, always looking to offer careful attention and the most busy to the territory possible. In short, we are voting on a series of measures which, humbly, we believe can help to change the trend of the past few years and to resolve certainly injustices. So let's take advantage of the willingness, which we know is so, of the advice to start a new stage and start with momentum and recover lost time. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.33.0	Next, has the word Ms. Laura Vílchez, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.34.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, last March 2nd I listened attentively to the question of the Member of Parliament Pol Gibert who made it to the Councilwoman, Mrs Bassa. From the outset, I found the themes on which he spoke and asked the representative of the Government to put the needle straight, leave the speeches superficial and concrete and go to the detail. My surprise has been. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Of the 11 points he was carrying, 7 were asked for reports that had remained in 4. This young man, however, is divided into three great themes that would have been given to be more ambitious, but we are already in favour of our vote. For what it does to equal pay, the effectiveness of the employment policies for gender equality is clear that it is more than questionable, because we have a wage exclusive that separates the men from the women installed around 20_per_cent, not to mention the differences in gender in terms of precariousness and temporality. Thus, we find interesting measures such as the development of business equity plans, calling for the full deployment of the Equality Act or the preparation of a diagnosis report on wage inequality. We regret, however, to say that these are measures that should not be required by these measures, but rather that we should already be implementing the conclusions of all these reports, assessing the results of these plans and of these pacts that are required here. In the economy of knowledge, of which we speak, we should not be letting the talent and creativity of women slip away on such important issues as the creation of a productive model such as innovation, and we should let him lose so as not to facilitate such basic issues as the reconciliation between working life and motherhood. If we are talking about reconciliation today, most cases go by because the woman pays the toll to give up her professional career so that she can combine family hours with a few reasonable minimums. From the outset, they could start for public administration, as the motion says, and transparently facilitate the percentages of men's and women's presence and wages in the different ranks of responsibility on the web of transparency. This comment serves me to talk about the second theme of the three he talks about, which is the Occupational Service, a totally dismantled service from under the flaps and completely inefficient in his pocket because of the lack of structure and the increase of the structures that he needs. According to studies published for the University of Barcelona, the SOC staff has reduced by 30_per_cent to attend to more than 500,000 stops and that, as a result, manages only 29_per_cent of the job offers, even though the councillor will say when we compare with the Infojobs web portal, which seems to work much better. Speaking of our goal at this point, which has been rejected by the proposing party, we would be more ambitious as we consider that we have room for manoeuvre in order to realize the investment that the service needs to progressively return to 2010 levels. In response to the inquiry, the counsellor informed us of her intention to restructure the SOC jointly with all the participating bodies, which we are celebrating as she confirms that, while the consultant was then in charge, the data that we transferred to her on the day of her appearance at the Treball Commission were of course and that, therefore, we felt that it was essential to incorporate the collaboration with the companies, both at the level of the reports, at the labour level and at the level of programmes offered by this service; that in order to achieve these objectives effectively, we felt it necessary to incorporate the collaboration with the companies. Nor did the Councilwoman like our comments on relocations and the closure of entrepreneurs who are giving themselves to Catalonia. We do not understand why as much as she as the Business Councillor, Mr Baiget, cast doubt on it when there is a constant loss of businesses coming here to Parliament to meet with the members of the Labour Commission in search of solutions by the Administration, so as not to count those who do not come or small businesses and autonomies who are not even expected to come because of the mistrust that the Administration inspired them, tancaran and prou. But what do we do other than not recognize these facts and data? We do not need to listen to a counselor who tells us that she will not negotiate with the central government or that she will provide us with a magnificent comparison between autonomous communities, of which she tells us that they are much worse. From here, with these answers, what do we do with all these people who are out of work when their company is shut down? What do we do with the locals who will have to lock up the blind if they have blind to lock up? What do we do about the future secrecy of our young people and the future of long-term or future majors of forty-five years? The rate of turn of these last ones is twice as high as the European average. Will they be attached to the SOC or is it all about waiting seven months? As you can see, a hard-to-get loop that we need to start active non-palliative employment policies to put a stop to Catalonia to achieve real equality, also wage and to put a stop to the closure of businesses. Politically speaking, opposition groups must also begin to make work proposals.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.35.0	Mrs. Vílchez, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.36.0	We don't need any more reports. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.37.0	Next, there's the word "Mr. Marc Vidal," from Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.38.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, in fact, these two motions think they are more or less complementary, I understand, because they deal with urgent issues related to occupation. No, we haven't coordinated, have we? Even though I seem to, what's going on is that maybe it turns out we're in tune. In any case, the Socialist Group's motion, as Mr Gibert explained, deals more deeply with some of the issues raised in the previous motion, and the first is the reference to equal pay, equal pay between men and women. I think he's already explained himself, and he's explained it enough. Of course, equal pay between men and women does not just go through symbolic questions like... not equal pay, equality between men and women does not just go through symbolic questions like, for example, writing in women, huh? , only for very concrete things; very concrete as, for example, not to segregate in the first schooling because of gender – which, in this Parliament, was not able to approve yesterday, certainly – but also, especially, in so classic a "as equal work, equal wages, and, more, in this country we have an equal law that would be able to deploy in this sense. Therefore, the Socialist Group's proposal seems correct to us: first, to gather all the information in relation to wage inequalities between men and women; then to assess the effectiveness of policies active in this sense, and, finally, to plan pay equity and to deploy legislation; coherent and conducive to a mature society if it is brought to an end. The second aspect in which we also agree, as we have seen in the previous motion, is to make a plan to resolve or deal with the crisis in businesses, and therefore to "promote a work pact, say to your young man, which is the basis of which model to produce – as you have also explained, well – which production model we need, which is what industry is like, and which, appreciating the social dialogue, focuses on job creation. And the third block is the Occupational Service of Catalonia. Look, we all say we want a public service that's in the corner of employment policies. Even so, it was said by Councilman Puig, even though, after that, it was always the private companies that base their business on the lack of work of the people. But we can't confuse good words and good desires with the right policies to bring it to fruition. How long have we been calling for a structure of work offices to respond to the needs of the suffering people? A lot, a lot of time. But we continue to lose jobs and we continue to lose basic jobs, we continue to lose jobs for technical people. Because, you don't feel that you're creating superstructures and, like we don't have any more assumptions, that this carries as a consequence that it's the remains of the chapter and that we're left with less personal to attend to – you don't feel it. That's why we've put forward papers that we understand to fill out the requests the young man makes in relation to empowering Catalonia's employment services and their work places. One that asks, precisely, to define the structure and elaborate the RLT, the relation of work places, that are necessary and that are sufficient to be able to do all the processes that require the occupation. Also the intermediation, and from the perspective of public service, that we always say, that must hold the SOC; for example, how does it feel that it is being called up about eighty-thousand people per certified letter to offer them their voluntary participation in the program of agencies of co-location, that they are called to an interview to be derived and incorporate them into programs of intermediation with human resources of the SOC, that they could end up doing the same job that after the agencies of co-location, which is subsidized with public money to do the same job. At least five workers for each office are dedicated to doing the entire administrative task to get back and explain all the program bonds; three_of_each_four people quit participating. Last year, only 6_per_cent of the participants got a placement for this system. Without agency intervention, it is also coll·loca, spontaneously, 6_percent of the stops in a given period. That is why, frankly, I could say that public resources are being misused. And what's worse, it leads as a consequence to contempt and dismotivation of the very human resources of the Occupational Service of Catalonia. This is a point, therefore, very clear. And the other theme refers to internal promotion processes, which must be done – which must be done – because it is important to stabilise the workforce. The problem is that, as you have been betting on before you create a structure of resources more than to keep staff, there could be a tempt – that we hope it will not be so – to dampen the vacancies that result from the process and then, as a result, lose the place of work for the internal people who occupy them in the current, that some have been occupying them for a long time; people who carry out a technical job absolutely necessary at these times. Therefore, the questioner, and with this end, is, precisely, a guarantee that this does not happen and that these places of work can be maintained. I therefore hope that the reports will be accepted, and in any case we will vote in favour of the whole motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.39.0	Next, the words of Mr Enric Millo, of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.40.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, well, the motion presented by the Socialist Party is an interesting one – it's interesting. Allow us to use this qualification, because, frankly, taking into account the seriousness of the subject we are dealing with, the importance of the subject we are dealing with, and listening to the question he asked the councilwoman, we were expecting a little more from this young man, huh? But, in fact, there's no problem. I'm saying this because it gives us the impression that in this situation we're in, right? Between a government that says we have to manage the while, a vice president of the government who says that the premise will not have it until here I don't know how many months – maybe in July, with a bit of luck, right? – yesterday, the councillors suck cool and today, so, these motions that don't just go to the scene of the problem, we don't seem to be, really, facing things as hot, right? Ask for mass reports, this... it's as if we don't know where we are. Actually, does anyone think the government doesn't know where we are? Because if that's the case, then we'd have a much harder problem. So, I'm sure that, besides, the counselor, who knows this world of occupation perfectly, knows exactly where we are. It is always right to make reports, but it is not right if, in the current situation, the Government of the Generalitat, now, precisely in this legislature which seems to be short, above, instead of going to work directly, we are going to report, right? In Fi, we're not against it, are we? But, come on, I don't think he's the tallest. There are three blocks in this movement: equality, crisis and Catalonian Occupation Service. I've already advanced that the equals bloc will vote absolutely all in favour, huh? It is to say that here, I suppose we all agree that there is an important challenge for which we must continue to work together, without any cracks, that it is the equality between man and woman, and, therefore, in this block, I am already in advance of our vote in favour of all points. Then, in blocks 2 and 3, I do have some observation to make, because..., Mr. Member, we have presented them with papers that seem interesting, important, right? And they've been rejected. Because, of course, we would like to know that when it comes to the promotion of employment, it is not only from the perspective of the worker, that it is necessary to have his best, his occupation, but also the business activity, the peppers, the autonomes, the entrepreneurs... And these items, which, in our view, are also necessary instruments for the creation of occupation, you do not accept them, do you not? Or when we have asked, when they talk about enhancing the collaboration of the Occupational Service with the assemblies, including the private sector, which we hear plays a phone book. And, if not, why only between 4 and 6_percent of contracts pass through the Occupational Service? So this, we say, this kind of allergy that some people have to work with the private sector in the area of employment management seems a mistake, doesn't it? And so, frankly, I'm sorry that you didn't want to accept this statement. On the other hand, I do appreciate it – and this is also important – that they accept the message that we want to complete the programs to promote the occupation and its execution. Because, of course, there is a problem here. There was a little talk in the inquiry, but there was no response from the government. I think it's too much and it's a lot of attention, especially taking into account the criticisms made by the government, usually giving blame to other things that go wrong in Catalonia, and, of course, when one looks at the documents of the same Government of the Generality in the apartment that refers to the presuppositional execution, November data, actually – I don't have them even though –... but, of course, it's a lot of attention that, when one looks at the percentage of obligations recognized from the approved presupposition, if we look for what is the lowest percentage – the percentage that has the smallest percentage–, taking into account that the general percentage is 88_percent, we find one that says, 36_percent, and even less so. That's when we talk about the Generality. And if we go to autonomous entities, the same thing happens: the smallest percentage, of a middle of the 44_per_cent, is 29.7_per_cent that they have for the promotion of the occupation. Therefore, it is obvious that the government here has an important concern. And with regard to the SOC... I'm saying it because the part of the corporate crisis also finds it a little flowing. I recommend it, including to the Government, because yesterday it was talking, it was like an example of a Balears agreement, I recommend that it is also looking at the agreement that has recently been signed to the Community of Madrid, the Madrid Strategy for Employment Pact 2016-2017, which is aimed at all the most vulnerable sectors that require attention for job creation, a pact between the Administration, the unions and the employer that is really an example to follow. And, finally, there was a controversy in this debate, at the inquiry, about the famous letter from the directors of the offices. We were surprised by a little advice given to her little importance or said that, in fact, obviously, therefore, she counts as much a director's opinion as a counselor's opinion, huh? He's probably counting exactly the same thing, 'cause there's no janitors at the job offices, right? [[relays]] And, therefore, you have to count the same, which is nothing. I'm told you've requested a meeting of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.41.0	Mr. Millo, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.42.0	Thank you. I hope that from this meeting there will be concrete measures, that will be heard and, above all, that this reform of the Occupational Service of Catalonia that we were going to do in this Parliament in the previous parliamentary term..., I think it is obvious, after listening to the interventions of all, that it was late...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.43.0	Mr. Millo...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.44.0	...in a hurry and in a bad way. I hope we can renew it again. Thank you very much for your generosity, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.45.0	Next is the words of Ms. Nattalia Figueras, from Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.46.0	Yes; thank you, thank you very much, President. Councillors, Members, Members, on the basis of the motion put forward for the Socialist Party, at first, from the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, we do appreciate the willingness and the task, therefore, to work together and to reach an agreement so that we can vote on this motion, aware that from the government, and in this case from the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families, with the council in the lead, we defend, and not only that, but we also work and take measures for the implementation of public policies in the field of work. We work and collaborate with social workers, trade unions and employers, so that they are compromised and there are real actors and protagonists of the market in which we find ourselves and work. With regard to the motion, separated, therefore, also in these three asides, the truth is that each of them would donate a lot of himself, but the propositions raised already give margin and play to work..., we will vote for them. In a first point, which is equal pay, it is a subject that obviously concerns us, it is a subject that, moreover, we are about and that we carried on the electoral agenda. Because we consider it a fundamental aspect for our parliamentary group to want to start from the premise of working especially to have a coherent, sustainable and social future market, which is not given any cases of discrimination. We want equal treatment and we don't want gender discrimination, I'm also aware that today we have a special and different impact on women. In general, it has been commented here by different parties and by fellow Members, there is a 20_percent lower than the average wage level between men and women, and this from the government, and even from this Parliament, we have to take all the necessary measures because it is not given in this or any other area. Other measures, such as the portal of transparency, in which it is requested that it inquire about the presence of women at the level of which companies, public bodies, foundations and consortia are managed in relation to the Administration of the Generality, and even the local administration, we very much appreciate this contribution, because we consider it appropriate and it is a point that we have to work, in addition, at the time of drawing up the diagnostic reports on the performance of wage inequality in Catalonia; propose the measures for the struggle against wage choice and pay inequality. It is also related to what are the established measures, that is the deployment of the Law of Equality of Catalonia, approved in the last legislature, in which there is an important departure, that is article 34, which refers to the development of the Business Support Action Plan, that in this case includes support programs and advice to incorporate the figure of a professional of equal status of women and men, in this case the department, therefore, creating what is the Directorate General of Equality, there is emphasis, there is work and is not fully aware. Therefore, we will vote in favour of these proposals or reviews. Following the next block of the young lady, which is the business crisis, obviously we are also in favour of..., well, realizing what is a work pact and together with this proposal, so, an analysis of the situation there is at the level of jobs and relocation and occupation; the department will also work there, together with the deputies who correspond to us. And finally, the last part of the SOC, which is a topic, therefore, quite discussed and which often occurs in this Chamber and in the same committee, from the same department they have allocated a considerable amount of time, because the truth is that it has a lot of importance, say..., a lot of importance, there is in the department, and in this case the councilwoman has taken it for granted, works, listens to all the measures proposed, among them that are here, until today we have closed the last issue, because we want to vote, we want to be there, we are very happy that the Socialist Party has also taken it into consideration and I want to take it. And, therefore, we are very grateful that we have arrived, so, at an intermediate point because from the Parliamentary Group Together for the Yes and the Councillor can work and apply these motions. Yes... I will finish my intervention only with a reference, and I don't like it..., say, I just wanted to go out and explain the motion and not intervene in relation to what Members have said, but yes, Mr. Millo, when you say that we don't know where we are, that the government doesn't take the appropriate measures or are in this while we are with a project or with a political process that is to become, therefore, a new state and an independent state, but to tell you that, if from your government and from the Spanish state you only help us by paying what we owe and what is marked for the law, sure that you can't recriminate this government or this department that you have to work and that you have to do something wrong. So, thank you very much to the rest of the groups. And the truth is that from our position we will vote in favour of it, and very happy that these measures are being taken and that from the department we can work. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.47.0	The words "Mrs. Mireia Vehí", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.48.0	Well, since the CUP - Creed They also seem very positive to us the motion; in fact, in general terms we will vote for it. What's going on is that we're abstaining from point 8, reporting to the Occupational Service of Catalonia – we've already talked to the deputy – because it doesn't refer to work intermediation. In this sense, we must also recognize the points made by Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, the 12th and the 13th, that they do incorporate all this. Still, we want to devote a few seconds to talking about this work intermediation. We want to remember the amount of money involved in this privatisation, the amount of money that goes to temporary work companies: 900_euros for whom I find work; 40_euros for interviews carried out; for people who are older than forty-five years, 625_euros for interviews, and for a disability situation, companies can get around 1,600_euros. We understand that this is intolerable, we understand that to do the Public Occupational Service of Catalonia it is also to end with the intermediation of work, also and above all, that it is one of the strongholds of the Privatization of the Occupational Service of Catalonia, that there are many others, that we have communicated it to the Councillor on various occasions and that we celebrate that the Socialist Party has accepted the exams of Catalonia Yes, it is possible, because we want to remember that they voted in favour of the Law of SOC, where the door to privatization was opened. Apart from that – and this will be the only point in which we will abstain, which is the 8th – we wanted to give two reflections. The first, on measures of equality. Since the CUP - Crida We are celebrating these measures oriented towards equal pay, with a gender perspective, we will support them, but we believe that it is urgent to go further and that we must do more besides positive discrimination measures. To end gender inequality is not just to speak in women, as the Member said, it is to assume that it is to end the privileges of the male gender in terms of gender roles, that it is to question the sexual division of labour and that it is to assume patriarchy as a political conflict that it is. For another band, we also wanted to give another reflection. We are celebrating that the Socialist Party wants to open a debate on the product model; this is also how we communicated it to the Member. We understand, however, that we are addressing it from a very different perspective from the CUP and the PSC, but we are celebrating it. For us, work is a way of satisfying needs, it must be undertaken in the framework of putting life in the centre, and in no case the debate..., or work can be or may be subjugated to the interests of the market. Therefore, we are already advancing that this will be one of our battle lines in this product model debate. And another thing that we also want to bring into the debate on the product model is that, we understand and from the certainty that the job is currently the right and right access lever of our society, we understand that we need to recognize the right to work for all people living in Catalonia, regardless of their administrative situation. And let's say this will be another one of our battle lines. Class perspective, feminist perspective and race perspective, always.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.49.0	Then, in order to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Pol Gilbert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.50.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I sincerely let go of the task of the groups in this House, because we have found a real willingness to sum up, to try to find solutions to problems that we have hard in this country and to improve the drafting of this House, with different views from different parliamentary groups. And I think it's especially important to stay in touch on a subject like the subject of work. And good show of this richly we find in the final text, which incorporates motions from all groups, without exception. We don't want to do it to satisfy... to make, let's say, a coffee for everyone, to say a few, not much less, just because we think that it's worth it that they deserve to be there and that they enrich this young man. Going into detail, on the points that concrete groups propose, as is the case with Ciutadans, i.e. that finally, even though one is reflected as such, they have brought rich around the debate on the work pact. It seems very important to us that this debate begins to open and we like that it is an open initiative to the debate of different groups. Moreover, to highlight his will, his good predisposition to correct errors and improve the text as much as possible. Therefore, my thanks. For what it does to the Exmenes of the Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot. It has already been mentioned before for the MP of the CUP that there are obviously some elements that enrich the text, that touch on two topics of rabid topicality, such as the problems of the people working for the Occupational Service of Catalonia, a topic that came out of the light in the last few days and that we have learned the different groups stem from a communication of the same people and that follows the stellar of other similar situations that we find at the SOC and that we have also had debate in this Parliament. In addition, they add a recurring demand to the Occupational Service, which is to know the relationship of work places and structure of the offices. A topic that came out and that we believe with this information, one head we know, will help enough to assess the current situation of the SOC. All two elements are accepted and therefore incorporated into the final text. With regard to the People's Party, please welcome its proposal on employment and business development programmes and its appreciation of the implementation of the previous year. We believe that incorporating this theme, we add, to this young man, a part of quality and touch on a theme that perhaps wasn't touched enough. We have not been able to accept, yes, the points that they refer to the scope of equality plans, because we consider that when we speak of equal pay we compare between genders and not between abilities, training or appropriate merit. We compare, on the same condition, equal pay. For us wage inequality does not have to see with different abilities or different formations of men or women, but simply as an injustice that suffer women for the sun made to be. For what he does to the work pact, which was also referred to by the deputy of the People's Party. It is not a closed pact, nor much less, nor does it seek to be, that we seek to encourage this debate, to leave it open, that we can incorporate different visions and, as the CUP's company has already said, so that each brings its model to this pact, right? For what he does to the CUP exams, precisely. We have been able to debate them and incorporate them into their majority, detailing and concrete aspects of the motion, and also opening the debate on the labor pact, which, as it stands now, would need to promote the creation of quality jobs and decent wages. We haven't been able to reach agreement on the role of the private sector and mediation on this issue, and I know it's hard, we've been talking about it a number of times, but I'm sure the philosophy behind having a powerful public employment service is shared. Last but not least, and also because it's been the most...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.51.0	Mr. Gibert, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.52.0	Leave'mdeu_seconds, president. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Lately – because it's a matter of late, precisely – we've been able to incorporate the Junts for the Yes, which we've been working on for a few minutes, and so we're glad that this text is shared for a lot, a lot of the room. We wait, too, to continue sharing this effort in the next few days and months in the development of this. So thank everyone. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.53.0	Call it a vote. Mrs Vehi, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.54.0	To ask for the vote on item 8 separately, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.55.0	Okay. [[Long break.]] The separate vote on item 8 was requested. Therefore, we will begin by voting on this point number 8, and then vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. It was approved by 121 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. Now, then, we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. It was adopted by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Some applause.]] [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on Metropolitan Transports of Barcelona]] [[302-00016/11]] The fifteenth point of the day's smell is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on Metropolitan Transports in Barcelona, presented for the Parliamentary Group the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Lord Albert Botran. [[Pause.]] They'll be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.56.0	Well, good morning. Today we have to vote a motion on the demands of the workers and the workers of Transports Metropolitans of Barcelona. We think that the size of the company, that it is a strategic sector, and when it comes to a public enterprise, the Generality has to take a stand and the Parliament has to be able to debate respect. And we wanted to give him a multiple focus. In one band, claim transparency, as an indispensable element to advance in a satisfactory resolution of the labour dispute. It cannot be that at these heights, laying as the workers plant a wage claim and pressing against them, as has been said, presuppositional questions, it cannot, we say, be that these assumptions are not public. Transparency, therefore, that the emena of Catalonia Yes that it is Pot has surely linked to the legal framework, making it an element of the Law of Transparency and Good Governance, approved in this same Parliament on July 2014. Claim, too, transparency for what makes under the direct charges, simply from the role of mediator made by the Generality. But it can't be that with whom you're meeting to negotiate, I mean, I love the counterpart's information, I mean, I love the wages of the directive. Some data calculated without having this information in the abst, but calculated with information outlined through the CGT union, for example, indicate that in the last five years, if the sound of the workers had dropped slightly, the direction would have risen around a half of EUR 11,000; it is clear that this would have to be, therefore, in order to be able to speak with fecund data, public data. Given that they should also include the address name, names and functions. The company's opacity makes us think we're in front of one of these politically charged withdrawals. We have already given the example, in the inquiry, of Dídac Pestaña, high mayor, in this socialist case, of Gavà, who charged, when he was in charge, 80,000_euros the year of the bus company, 81,000_euros the year of the metro company and, therefore, 160,000_euros, a sum that is not bad people. It must be said that, with the new meeting, TMB did make public the name of who replaced Dídac Pestaña as the delegated adviser, and that his son, in this case, was almost EUR 106,000. And following this line, we should also go a little further than transparency, as is the fourth point of the motion, and ask the head of TMB, as well as other public enterprises, to rationalise this executive structure so that there is no TMB that we are talking about. And finally, it was necessary to legitimize the demands of the workers who had been questioned. It was noted, on the part of the leading groups, that the generality's mediation could not take part; well, let it come to an agreement. That's right, the idea of a deal is that everyone who works at the company is inside and there's no people out of the deal at the top, like there's a lot of direct charges, or down, like the company's most precarious workers. Claim that it certainly confirmed the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia in its judgment of 16 October last, that of having all the workers between convenient. A tape has to be set aside in the legitimate demands of TMB workers; we have been claiming this transparency a long time ago and for every possible channel. The workers have done it, we have done it like CUP in the Assembly of Barcelona and in this same Parliament, for example, with questions to the councillor – like June 2014, to the councillor Santi Vila – the answer of which, therefore, we cannot say that we are satisfied. He gave us the address name, but for what he does at the bottom, he did a middle. Today, therefore, we hope that it will be possible to approve in Parliament's plenary, which seems to us to be a positive message for transparency in public enterprises and for the better conditions of workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.57.0	Next, there's the word "Mrs. Naomi of the Street" from Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.58.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, this motion of the CUP calls for, among others, two issues from which, from Citizens, we have also placed special political emphasis : transparency and rationalisation of the Administration. On these Citizens' issues and the CUP, we can certainly agree. Transparency is not only a right of citizens to access information from administrations that ultimately belong to them, it is also a fundamental mechanism to combat arbitrariness in the management of public resources. Undoubtedly, the opacity in TMB's budgets, and in particular of the salaries of its management positions, generate suspicions and suspicions, especially among the TMB's own workers, after the Mayor of Barcelona, in order to put them against public opinion, revealed data of their salaries and not those of the management positions. In short, if there is nothing to hide, opacity is not explained. Transparency in the management of the administration and in public enterprises means that the citizen has full knowledge of it, and thus to facilitate this knowledge is an indispensable figure in decision-making. Moving forward in transparency is to improve democracy. With regard to the rationalization of the Administration, from Citizens we have also insisted a lot. We understand that this is one of the basic aspects of the profound reform needed by Spain in general and Catalonia in particular. I guess you've heard us talk about blowing up the political bubble, or removing fat, like doubles and public positions, to add muscle as workers providing services, teachers, doctors, to set an example. In this respect, we cannot agree more with the rationalization of the directive and its consequent reduction in managerial positions. They must not respond to the temptations of political parties to place their members and, in any case, they must respond to the technical and professional needs of management. We are normally reluctant to motions which only include matters which fall within the competence of other administrations and which do not have a direct implication for the exercise of the powers of this administration. In this respect, we have tabled an amendment to transfer the implementation of the approved measures to the metropolitan area, as we believe that this motion is a labour dispute that has brought us the CUP to this Parliament in the form of a motion and that the proper place to defend these just demands is in the relevant administration. Moreover, this motion is particularly curious because it calls for a lower territorial administration. I do not want to imagine what the CUP would say if any parliamentary group in the Congress of Deputies dares to urge the Generalitat on any matter within our competence. What happens is that they have not been able to repress themselves in their cold war with the political force represented by Ada Colau for the space of the supposed true left. They have not been able to miss the opportunity, and I understand them because we too were shocked that someone who has forged his political career through his aura as an activist to the first of change, for political interests, would question the right to strike. Obviously, not only is the strike compatible with the negotiation, but precisely the strikes are called for that, to pressure the negotiation. That is why we also hope that an agreement can be signed as just as possible. In short: Citizens will support this motion as we have always supported workers in their demands when they have been consistent and just, and because it gathers several of the principles so necessary in our longing for democratic regeneration. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.59.0	Next, has the word Lord Gerard Gómez del Moral, of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.60.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, as they have said, in fact, some companies that have preceded me this young man has two friends, two blind: one of labor, occupation and negotiation, mediation of the conflict, which I will refer to later, and another that is transparency and that is that of demand, in the end, to complete a law that this Parliament approved in 2014. In fact, we haven't talked – and, in fact, I think we'll talk more about it, too, don't we? , on the day of today's day – of a council that is that of the Exterior, that we have often not talked much about the fact of the Exterior and that if the type and some numbers, therefore, that we have seen in this faristol. But it is also the first time that the Government of the Government of Catalonia has a council in which its name has a specific area, which is that of transparency, and therefore a decided stake not only to advance towards the country we are– and therefore to refer to what we want to be and to explain to the world what we want to be–, but also in the need, in this process of making a new country, in this need to make a different country, to make it clear, just and transparent, that it is one of the objectives that this Government has marked itself. Therefore, as we cannot be otherwise, we also urge to comply with the Law of Transparency – to comply with the Law of Transparency – which this Parliament approved, and absolutely everyone, right? , the government, the administrations, the public enterprises, everyone, isn't it? , to all public enterprises, which is the corresponding one. And that's why we're defending the law of transparency and the measures that will apply from it, so, obviously, we can't do anything but agree with it. That's how the company commented, isn't it? , of Ciutadans, just now – that it was also one of the things that we posed on the table – that it is true that in the concrete case of this young man and of the concrete enterprise to which he refers it is neither the competence of the Government of the Generality nor the competence of this Parliament ; and, therefore, uncertain, is it not? , the vision of asking or like the metropolitan area, which in the end is which, it is the competent people of TMB which, therefore, can directly affect its management, right? , and, therefore, the work of the Generality, more than old to the compliment, therefore, of the Law of Transparency to all administrations and to all public enterprises. That said, the second sentence, which is either the area of work or the area of trying to resolve this labour dispute, which has been, as you know, because we have also not spoken to Parliament, the Council has made very important efforts to mediate, to try to reach an agreement between all the affected parties, with long days, almost marathons in the end of the week, right? , to try to settle an agreement. And that's what we have to do: to place all the parts that follow, to find this space of dialogue, in concert that the Government, therefore, is making from the mediation; therefore, to ask for the dialogue and to ask, therefore, the negotiation for the two parts, from always the optics of the good negotiating faith, that is one of the principles that we understand and that always there must be, and, therefore, to culminate as we want, as the Government wants, as all those affected we hope that they will also want it, therefore, with a satisfactory agreement, right? , which I allow, as it is also pointed out in this motion, therefore, to resolve the conflict and, therefore, to find points of agreement that allow us to arrive at a new convenient. So, you're from our optics, aren't you? And with the ideas that we have presented, that we have been, therefore, trading, and that have ended up adding, with a little bit of opinions or visions that we have had from all groups, that we agree with how it ended up – in the end – this motion is just to insist and reschedule this: to find a solution in the labour dispute that has arisen and, therefore, to follow in the negotiation of the mediation and to arrive and to take the two sides because it is possible – to agree and to resolve this conflict; and always taking into account the demands that have been made in this Parliament and the commitment that has been made in the last few years, and that, above all, it is to be done in the concrete way in this country, in which it is done in the very good way, that it is done in this country, and that it is done in the way that it is done in this country. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.61.0	Next, has the word Mr. Joan Coscubiela, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.62.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want me to be honest with you, I don't know exactly what we're doing today. I've been trying to explain. The truth is that when we saw the inquiry of the CUP group, asking the Catalan government about conflicts and transparency problems, certainly real, that correspond to other administrations – the Metropolitan Transport Authority or the Barcelona Assembly – we heard nothing. Suddenly, when we saw Councilman Rull's face, happy, we thought, "We already have the explanation. Counselor Rull says: "So I pose them all, ask them. And I thought it was part of the exceptional moment that this Parliament saw: "Do not create problems for the Government of the Generality, and the best way is to ask them about things that affect other administrations. But I didn't want to stay with this issue and I thought, "Don't prejudice yourself, wait till you see what's going on with the subject of the young lady. And then the truth is that when I saw the motion – four points – insisting, asking for responsibilities to a company – that, in addition, if someone is responsible as a public company, it is the Metropolitan Transport Authority and the Barcelona City Council – I thought: "This is what has been meant by solidarity with an important company, with a fair conflict, and it has been done with the issue of transparency, and how there have been no examples found that there are responsibilities of the Government of the Generality, there has been a need to find one that is responsible for the Barcelona City Council. But clearly, I don't think so, because right now we have a major conflict with Railways of the Government of Catalonia, practically with the same elements: a conflict of convenience and with difficult transparency problems. And I decided: "Well, don't speculate anymore. What do we do? And we had three hypotheses. One, say to the Bureau: "Message, how did you accept this motion? Don't you think this young man isn't in the Rules? The normal thing is that the Bureau rejected him. But I thought, "No, you don't because it will be seen as an act of kindness with the CUP. And, obviously, that's not our goal. The other possibility was: "Well, we vote for them as they are. Nor can it be said that the Constitutional Court..., the PP invades the Constitutional Court for usurpation of competence by the Parliament of Catalonia and holds another issue with us. So, the only possibility that there was was to try to find some way to save the paper of this Parliament of Catalonia. And I looked at what this Parliament of Catalonia can do in terms of transparency, the limit of under-examining, the rationality of public administration. And the truth is that I didn't have to look for or reminisce much, because it's not full; for example, in the pre-current government's failure, an additional provision provided for in a 2014 law that obliges to establish a topall of the generalities. And that's not the point. So, you know, we'll make this easy for the CUP company to incorporate. According to the question, the theme linked to the topalls and limitations element. Home, if this is a general problem of the joint administration and joint public enterprise, we find this issue. And, besides, we identify Railways of the Generality because it gives the circumstance, too, that it is a company that looks like TMB and that has the same problems, with a difference, and that is that in the case of Railways of the Generality makes public the President's son, but not that of the other governing structures, is to say, exactly the same case. Well, and I'm explaining to them the mental itinerary we have to follow as a group to get here, and here come our papers, which have tried to improve – and, if you're allowed, save – this peculiar inquiry and the subsequent motion that has been raised. For this reason, all of the things that were originally oriented towards placing what the Catalonian Parliament can do, which is the responsibility of the Catalonian Parliament, which is to urge the Catalan Government with what is its responsibility. Fortunately, the companies of the CUP, and especially the company Albert, to which I agree the negotiating flexibility, have accepted the great part of our reviews, and, therefore, I believe that we can vote today something that..., go, that saves everyone's papers. I do not know the reason why, just that company which is the responsibility of the Government of the Generality, which is Railways of the Generality of Catalonia, does not arise in the setting up that made us the CUP. I come back to the initial idea: perhaps it will be a matter of not disturbing Councillor Rull, who has more important things to do with other things from the point of view... but who knows that he continues to feel the same conflict with the same problem and with a subject that is the responsibility of this Parliament, and therefore we have a strong capacity to influence this issue. Truthfully, transactions are always left with one thing, and the truth is that it seems a little flowing this thing of asking for management with companies because it's good; but, well, when a transaction doesn't have more to do than accept the layout, too, of the other parts. And that's what we did. In short, it's fine, which ends well, and I honestly believe that what is being voted on today is something that I hope the PP won't bring us to the Constitutional Court and we won't disobey. Thank you very much. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.63.0	Please, be quiet. Next, the words of Mr Alberto Villagrasa, of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.64.0	Thank you, President. I suppose Mr Coscubala's indignation comes because he has to guard Mrs Colau in this Parliament. This motion comes square, of course, because there is a negotiation of the collective agreement in TMB, and also because of the strike that took place on the occasion of the Mobile World Congress, and which must be remembered; a strike, which, of course, everyone has the right to strike, but it must also be consistent: when it is done, why it is done and where it is done. We are not talking about a private company, but about a public company, which has to serve the citizens. And here there were two injured, in that strike: one, the image of the city of Barcelona, and the other the user, because, in the end, the participant of the Mobile World Congress, surely, as an alternative, took the taxis, but the great injured, for it was the retirees, the workers, the students, that every day take the metro or the bus. And, of course, respecting that right to strike, I believe that, of course, I agree with Mrs. Colau – I agree with Mrs. Colau – that this strike was disproportionate. But there have been several such strikes in the history, and during that history and those strikes very curious things have been said. One of them..., in one of those strikes, someone said: "TMB is an opaque company, that instead of reducing salaries to managers, it raises tariffs to users. End of date. Ada Colau, in his stage as an okupa activist. How things have changed; how easy it is to be behind the banner defending those okupas. That is very easy, but it is true that when one is governed one has to act with responsibility, one has to act with responsibility; responsibility with what is said, with what is done and with what is managed. And Mrs. Colau goes as a ring to the finger a quote from an 18th-century French politician, Riquetti de Mirabeau, who said: "The Jacobins, when they reach ministers, forget that they are Jacobins. And not just that. In addition, now, in TMB, the president is also a person from Barcelona in Comú, and who acts as when he was chairing a person from the PSC or Convergence and Union, exactly the same; they act as the caste that previously ruled TMB. On the CUP motion, we will vote in favour, because virtually all the points that you cite in this motion, the People's Group has been demanding them for many years in the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona; obviously the budgets must be public. In some ways they are already, because the Metropolitan Area, when it presents its consolidated budgets, already teaches them, already presents them, but, obviously, if it has to be made more public by other means, obviously, no problem. The salaries of managers must be public, because it is a public enterprise, of course, and the salary comes out of public money and citizens' money. And also, therefore, rationalise TMB's executive structure ; totally agree, because, as I said before, they are claims that we have been making for many years in the Metropolitan Area. I am grateful that you have softened the point made at the negotiating table, because negotiating is not imposing the whole thing on one of the parties. And, second, that if we take all the demands of the workers, in the end, the great harm would be the user of public transport, because we would have to raise the final price of the tique. Obviously, I thank you for softening this part, we will vote in favour of it, and, as they said from here, as all these groups are represented in the Metropolitan Area, I also hope that there, in that forum, we will all continue to claim the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.65.0	Next, the words of Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.66.0	I see there are questions for debate, around public transport. We could talk about T-Mobility; we could talk about how the government applies or how it intends to apply the Public Transport Finance Act which we approved in the previous legislature and which does not have a clear full route to apply, and we have been talking..., or it was an inquiry around a question which, it has been said since this Faristol, the Parliament of Catalonia has no direct competence, huh? It's not our mission to finish checking the country's premises. That's why we haven't done any reviews. I have already announced it, I have already announced to Mr Botran that we will vote in favour of this motion. But we're talking about a company that's a local-based company, aren't we? , of metropolitan base, which has its control organs, which are not precisely the Parliament of Catalonia, which is the plenary of the Metropolitan Area. Now, it's true that Barcelona Metropolitan Transport is not a company of any kind, it's not a public company of any kind, despite the fact that it's a local-based company, is it? , precisely because one of the parts that it manages, which is the metro, is one of the main fishes of the mobility of thousands of citizens and citizens of Barcelona city, and also part of the entourage of metropolitan cities, and also that many citizens make use of this mode of transport to move to the capital of the country, because they come to work or because they come to do or there are other types of activities. And, therefore, from this reality, it is also certain that a labour dispute, which is a conflict that is not closed, which is a latent conflict, ends up having a severe impact on the forced mobility of this environment; an affect that is not about what or what happens, huh? It is not an affect on Mobile, which is when there was an explosion, this labour dispute, a media explosion, but when there is a labour dispute with companies of this importance, what affects is the combination of the forced mobility of all of us, of which we serve public transport, of which they serve private transport and which they see as..., or that they are obliged to use those days their private vehicle, with a congestion, obviously, of the lives that they have entered or exited to the capital of Catalonia. Therefore, it is necessary to take advantage of this forum to appeal to those who have to negotiate, to those who have to talk, that it is the Metropolitan Administration, the Barcelona Assembly, the unions, so that the negotiation is sustained, that it is intense, to reach an agreement of agreement of agreement to resolve this conflict and disengagement that can be produced in the future, because we are not affecting, I repeat, one event or another; we are affecting the combination of mobility that affects us all as citizens. I want to complain, I agree, transparency. This Parliament approved a law that obliges everyone, also the local administration, and that should know what everyone's salary mark is: workers and managers, huh? And what is read is that, in the middle of a collective negotiation, someone lost their nerves and made their salaries public, not everyone, but on the one hand, in this case the workers. And I left to finish, because this was also a topic that came out and surprised me, that everyone has the right to have a decent job and to have a decent salary. It cannot be said, as it was stated in this conflict that it was produced, that it is that the workers of Metropolitan Transports of Barcelona, compared with the rest of the workers, had a higher salary. Everyone has a right to have a wage, to try to improve it, because, moreover, it has consequences on the economy of the country, because those who have a better wage have better conditions, also, of consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.67.0	Then, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word "Mr. Albert Botran".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.68.0	Well, thank you. We, therefore, celebrated that we were able to incorporate ideas and that in this way was approved for unanimity, apparently, this young man, because we did so with the next one, and so too, to avoid doubts, as they stood. This is not a question of cold wars; if this goes all the way up here, it is because it may have brought up here a claim that in other places it is careless, in other institutions and in other institutions, and bring up to Parliament this claim of transparency, that obviously we have no problem, but on the contrary, of getting to other public enterprises, beginning with, obviously, in which the majority of the Generality participates. In Ciutadans, tell them they didn't understand. I was told yesterday between passers-by, that this was for our war, some kind of war that might be there. There is no war in particular. He tried to make war on the rest of the opposition to the Barcelona Assembly, precisely, at the beginning of this week, and they did not want to add to it, because we understood that it was partyism and that it did not obey a concrete model. We have our city model, in that case. And the claim that she's bringing us now isn't by any concrete cold war. Yes, it seems that we have a cold war with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, because a young man who should go... would have to unify himself, because we had incorporated his ideas, they wanted to turn him against us. If we haven't accepted other items, it's because we don't think it's going to go through the back door more contained in one piece, because the other groups haven't been able to debate it either; but we have absolutely no problem positioning ourselves against the privatization of T-Mobility and doing it on occasions, so where we can do it through interrogations and motions. Likewise in the case of Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat de Catalunya. It was a matter, therefore, of not entering through the back door more contained when the initial text did not refer to this. I understand that the conflict in Barcelona's Metropolitan Transports, because, let's say, Workers' Commissions has been overwhelmed by the demands of metro and bus workers, but they do not, for that reason, turn the motion against us; tell us..., if we share it and have incorporated its elements, it is for some reason, because we believe that we have a common point of view in favour of transparency and in favour of workers' rights. On the rest of the issues, in particular those of Juntes for the Yes and the People's Party, we did not incorporate them because we thought that they denaturalized the movement in such a way that they caused him to lose all the political strength he could have. We celebrate, therefore, that today we can approve this motion and that, therefore, the claim that has been made in various institutions and through various collections is due to the end of a time, and the subs and presuppositions of TMB remain public, are transparent, and the directive dome is rationalized, as other cities of the Catalan countries have done, as we mentioned in the case of València. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.69.0	Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word? [[Pause.]] Thirty seconds. And try to respect them, which is always passing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.70.0	Thank you, President. Well, no, it's just to clarify the company of the CUP... cold war? Of course, because we've voted this and I think, in this room, people, the groups that vote the most things together are you and us. I simply put out something that seemed like a contradiction to us and tried to do it as elegantly as possible. I am I, my circumstances and my contradictions; I hope you too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.71.0	We're calling it a vote. If you've just entered... [[Long break.]] As there has not been, as there has not been, no one has asked for separate votes, we will vote for the whole motion. The vote begins. [[Some applause.]] It was adopted by 130 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[302-00014/11]] The next item is the following motion to the Government on the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Lord David Pérez. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.72.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, the other day in the question to the Councillor we laid on the table four points, eh? , which were: the program contract, the need to pull forward the program contract; the need to make the appointments in a different way from how they were made; the issue that the choice of roles to the Catalan corporation contained the criteria of two-thirds for their choice, and, as a last resort, the issue of plurality, of the plurality need to the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. And, in fact, these are the four points that we're planting in the police station. From the outset, I would like to say that I would like to appreciate the predisposition shown by all representatives of parliamentary groups at the time of making papers and of having the ability to arrive also at the transaction of these papers. First of all, tell them straight away that we thank Mr. Cuminal for his papers, and in this sense practically we will approve all the papers, except that which is related to the point five, and I believe that somehow they make it easier for everyone to approve them. Also the thought that has made Catalonia Yes it is Pot, the Marta Ribas, which is finally making a deal with Junts for the Yes. And the message that the People's Party has presented... we'll approve the number one message, and the second one, we've already commented on it with the companies, that they won't accept it. And lastly, Ciutadans's emena, David, I think it's a good, interesting emena, but also, as we see that everyone can vote for all the emena, we honestly think that when he talks about the need for cost rationalization, we talk about financial stability; they are concepts that could be quite similar. But in any case, I do thank him, like all the representatives, for his willingness to pull this young man forward. And it is in this sense that I think it is an opportunity, sincerely, lost, because all parliamentary groups could agree on five points, but there is no way to finally unlock the fifth point, which refers to the subject of plurality as well as to third parties. It's all right. We're talking about plurality too, huh? I think it's an opportunity because all the parliamentary groups in this Parliament can approve a sincere motion on such an important issue, as a country, as is the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. On the subject of the programme contract, they said to the question: Mr Francesc Homs said a year ago that "the week that we will approve the new programme contract, a year ago of all this; we still don't have it. We hope that with the approval of the new premise this is already a reality, and we hope that it is also done with the criteria that lay the motion. We have to look for resources, it's true, we have to find these resources, and I would suggest that we do between all of us or that we make the effort that the tripartite government made when we had to find resources because the Catalan corporation has the financial stability that it needs now. Listen to me, we talk about plurality in tertulies, and directly we talk about plurality of contents and we talk about diversity of voices. And when we talk about diversity of voices – and we have also talked about it with the Albert of the CUP – we are talking about a woman's voice, we are talking about a young woman's voice, we are talking about a different voice, we are talking about a refugee's voice, we are talking about an alternative voice, we are talking about a different view of the territory that is not Barcelona. We're talking about this, when we're talking about plurality of voices. We don't always have to look at everything in terms of process, huh? We're talking about that, because other countries, when they talk about plurality of you, they talk about that. And we think that if you want the Catalan corporation to be more plural every time, it's imperative that you have this plurality of views. And it's a big deal – it's a big deal – that we couldn't agree on that. And we didn't agree, I insist, because some people always see this issue on the issue of unionists, independent... It's not that – it's not that – plurality is a much richer thing. And we're not talking about the quantity criteria of microseconds, which in each information program comes from a party or another party; we're not talking about that, we want to exceed that criteria. We are talking about qualitative criteria, when we are talking about plurality. I insist, it's a long shot, it's a lost opportunity, but in any case I'm stuck with the good; the good, which is that the majority of parliamentary groups..., no, the total practice of parliamentary groups we have agreed on four of the five points of this young man, and I think that this is what the professionals of the information are asking us for, is what is asking us, in some way, also citizenship. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.73.0	Next there is the word Ms. Marta Ribas, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.74.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Of course, from Catalonia, yes, we can support this young man. We agree on the four main elements that are raised to the motion: both the need for the program contract, with the media of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans – Generalitat, public media – as well as the need for reform of the laws of the corporation and the ACC, as the necessary compliment of the Law of Equality, approved last July, as regards our direct responsibility of the corporation, and also respect to improve the control work that the ACC does respect to the control of pluralism to our communication media. I'm on my way. With the program contract. Of course, it's been a long time since we've been saying, a few years ago, that this contract program. And, obviously, if we have to have it to ensure that the quality and the compliment of the principles that we have set for public communication means since this Parliament, but that more can be done and, therefore, there is an accompanying presumption, there is a presupposition for this contract program for a few years. And, therefore, we understand the message of Juntes for Yes in this sense, and all that, therefore, has changed this point we would support. You want to take advantage of it, don't you? , that we pose this point for debate to remember that the non-existence of the program contract has had some consequences these past years, and, therefore, we hope that today we do not only approve this point, but that it is done quickly, this program contract, in order to prevent these pernicious effects from continuing. There have been effects such as, for example, that in the past mandate the Government reduces by 20_per_cent the public subsidy to the Audiovisual Media Corporation, touching the bone, touching the possibility of the quality of the contents, of the own production capacity, and also touching the external production, which also has to promote the corporation; therefore, not fulfilling the objectives that we have set for public communication media since this Parliament, from a presuppositionary reduction. This is possible because there is no program contract, among others. Let us hope that now it is done quickly and, therefore, eliminate these risks in the face of the future. With regard to the reform of the laws, man, the last legislature has already tried, it has tried with a proposal of the Law of Initiative and the United Left and a proposal of the Law of the Government, which they have jointly processed but that they have remained in that channel of the oblits, in which the Law of local governments has also remained, in which the Law of guarantee of access to salvation has also remained for everyone... As we now see that there are plans to recover those laws, we are glad, we hope that this time it will go on and not to leave them to the channel of the oblits. We will try again, in the case of the better reform of the Llei of the corporation and the ACC. We've already done it, we've already registered a bill from Catalonia Yes, it's Pot. There's no one else to register. Let's hope that all prayer allows for an intense and profound debate, that you can return to the broad consensus in this chamber respecting this theme, and therefore a good way to do it will be to have everyone's approval, right? , of the consent of this point in this young man. Our point, the only point that we have made was precisely in this point of the motion, because we believe that touching those laws is not only to allow us to revert to what Convergence and Unity and the People's Party approved in 2012 in this chamber – therefore, to return to the wider choice of members of the governing council of the "body, or also of the CAC" – but also to go further there, to make more strides, to rethink much more elements thinking about the future, thinking about Europe, thinking about the world, how we go about the corporate and the CAC. And two last elements respect the other two elements of the motion. With regard to the need for the compliment of the Law of Equality, we were dealing with the past diverging at the corporate control committee, we were also demanding it as well as Catalonia. Yes, it is, and we hope that it will not become a matter of strange interpretations, as Mr. Duart did the other day, respect what the law says at the time of completing it. The law says he's going to be at the match, and we're going to be back. And that's not possible, and that's not acceptable, and that's the government that needs to get old because their public enterprises don't. And respect the point of the CAC, therefore, we add to what the spokesman of the PSC said, that we really believe that we need to improve in pluralism, that we are not only measuring pluralism quantitatively, in how many of one party or another appear in the media, but we are talking about the pluralism of wishes, the pluralism of people, the territorial pluralism, the pluralism of generes, the pluralism of aspects that are dealt with, of themes, in the communication media, and also in their tertules. I told you: the past and previous legislatures have lost the majority of consensus time to issues such as this, public communication media. We can start this legislature by regaining those consensuses; in it we have an opportunity, this young man can prove it, and then, a few weeks from now, from the proposals of laws that will have to come to the Ple of this chamber...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.75.0	Mrs. Ribas, you've run out of time. [[Pause.]] The words "Mrs. Andrea Levy", of the People's Parliamentary Group, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.76.0	Thank you, President. Consellera, MPs..., look, we had the hope, perhaps because this Member is opening in this legislature, that when the new Government of the Generalitat had to make the appointments of the public media of Catalonia it would not need to appoint people ideologically and politically related so that TV3 would end up being, in the end, another extension of the Generalitat Governing Council. And I say we had hope, but now we have the conviction of the contrary. And this is not an impression of me, this is a finding. And that's because we were able to see in the committee last week how the deputy of the party that supports the government, Mr. Cuminal, with great irony that, I recognize it, is a political virtue, glossed, endorsed, almost blew up the new appointments that were being made in the media in Catalonia. And that is nothing more than a finding, at least, that they are something of their liking. And the truth is that I don't understand it very much, because if you are so absolutely convinced that your political proposal is so majority, so consensus-based and that it brings together that voice of the people that you always appeal to, I also don't understand why you have the need then to crush us with your propaganda on public television in Catalonia and on the public media in Catalonia. It will be, at least, that they should not all have them with them and that, therefore, they should use the public media in Catalonia to continue to insist that their project is the happy Arcadia to which all Catalans should be aspired and convinced. So, missed opportunity? Yes, that of proving that you, with the public media in Catalonia, could act by elevation and could offer some public media that, look, I'm going to recognize one thing, maybe you don't have to fix yourself in those of the rest of Spain, you could fix yourself in other countries, since you are specialists in saying that one day we are one thing, a country, Denmark, Kosovo..., in short... you could have done it, but no. I guess this isn't what they were interested in, but they were interested in having a public television station in Catalonia as a propaganda weapon. And what a pity, because you will really end up doing good to the nationalisms of history. Anyway, what's going on with the motion, which I thank you for, and I thank you very much... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The nationalisms of history; no... Hey, you, every time this deputy comes to this rostrum, have a feeling that you're in a chat. No, listen, leave me my speaking shift, that you already have yours. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Anyway, let's go to the motion of the day... No, I thank you; I thank you, the truth, for giving me the opportunity to contrast with you opinions. What's going on with the motion? Well, we are going to vote in favour, honourable Member, of this motion, thanking you for incorporating the amendment to point 3, because, as has been seen in the previous Member's speech, it seems that you forget that in 2010, obviously, there was a change in the choice of members as to the numerical needs for this, but that the former tripartite government made the same change in the election of the members of the corporation. And, therefore, it seemed appropriate and opportune for us to recall in this motion that..., while we agree that there is a change in its composition for the current election, remember that that was not the only one that occurred, that of 2010, but that previously there had already been another by its own Government, if I may say so. And as for the fifth point, which I understand you do not accept because you want to have the support of Junts for Yes, well, if you want there really to be a budget for these qualitative reports, which we support because we believe that it is necessary that the reports be not only of quantity, but of quality, of knowing exactly the plurality on which all the contents are based, you had an opportunity to do the budget. And it is that the ACC will not go into analyzing those media that are not of its own competence. Listen, there will already be other bodies that can evaluate what happens on other public televisions that are not owned by the Generalitat of Catalonia. And I sincerely believe, Mr President, that we have lost the opportunity to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.77.0	The words of Mr. David Mejía, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.78.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members, we are already telling you that from Citizens we will vote in favour of this young man, even though we regret that our message has not been accepted in one of his quarters. And we will vote in favour of this motion because under our defence point an object we share, and that it is no more than independent public communication media, under real control and with stable funding. We will support it, yes, but we will also be very attentive to how the tasks of the public audiovisual service of the Generalitat provided for in Article 26 of the Audiovisual Communication Law of Catalonia are concrete in the own contract programme. From our group we have always defended and will continue to defend public media that are integrative and completely disconnected from what some call a national construction process. And we will work on this line so that our television and the set of Catalan public media can really be from all Catalans and not from some who have a certain ideology. From this point of view, which we will gather together from its quarters, it seems to us to be particularly relevant to paragraphs 4 and 5, which affect, on the one hand, the corporate governance model, and, on the other hand, the central body which guarantees the compliment of the missions of the audiovisual public service. With regard to the first, respect for the corporate governance model, this young man went in line with the proposed law that we presented from Ciutadans a few weeks ago to Parliament, respect the majority of the necessary two-thirds to choose its members, and that, therefore, we understand that when you bring this proposal to debate and vote, we also count on your support. With regard to this issue, the lady will always advise us that the current members of the government council were chosen for two thirds. I, Madam Counselor, are right: they were chosen for two thirds. But what seems to be forgotten is that the parties that form part of his parliamentary group, from Junts per el Si, is to say, Convergence and Republican Left, they hastened to appoint, on the proposal of Republican Left, a new councillor when it was about to finish the previous legislature, and they did so by an absolute majority in the second vote and not for a majority of two-thirds. And they did so because, after the breakup of the Federation of Democratic Convergence and Union, it meant losing control of the governing council in relation to the profiles that existed at that time. It was just a sign he wanted to make to the councilwoman. And, on the other hand, we also welcome the rectification of the policy that began in 2010 when the tripartite government amended through a decree of the Law 11/2007 to proceed at that time to the appointment of a president of the corporation in the Republican Left that then did not count on the support of Convergence. At that time, it should be remembered that Convergence and the People's Party were opposed and brought this decree to law to the Board of Statutory Guarantees, while, curiously, later in 2012, they agreed between them to make the appointment of the corporate advisors a standard, which the decree only gave to cover the vacancies that had already come out. In conclusion, Ciutadans will always defend a model that combines the best of professional and parliamentary models, and that places for large majority for the designation of qualified professionals and for the designation of independent professionals. To greater consensus, more democracy; to greater plurality, more credibility. I repeat: to greater consensus, more democracy; to greater plurality, more credibility. In short, we are happy to see how every time there are more critical voices with the obvious instrumentality that our public media in Catalonia suffer, some who do not only come from Ciutadans, some who do not come from different opposition groups, some who also come from the workers of the same house, some who also come from the professional collections of the sector, some who even came to the Council of Europe. Therefore, let us hope that the Government will take note of it. Let's hope the government does self-criticism. And we hope that the government will work to make our media an example of credibility and an example of plurality that I managed to make all Catalans feel, together with Catalans, like our media. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.79.0	Next, the words of Mr Jordi Cuminal, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.80.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counsel, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, I also want to begin by thanking the joint attitude of the Members at the time of negotiating this motion. They've explained themselves more or less, there's been agreement on all of them, so maybe I don't have to exhaust all the time with what I've agreed to. It was possible not only to accept items but to trade in contents. I think this is interesting for all that was asked of an opportunity to consider the corporation a country issue and, therefore, to seek agreements, consensuses, that help us get to the right place in these debates that we have raised. Yes, I'll make a reference to the one we couldn't agree on. And Mr. Perez and someone else said, "It's a lost opportunity, isn't it? And I insist, and I won't read the whole five, but in any case..., I'm saying, they agreed: "that the ACC examines the plurality of the contents, the weighting on the diversity of the vision and the equanimity of the rest of the programs that are broadcast to all channels of the corporation. The one who passed, then there was a point and then he said: "And above all the tertules. And that's risky, because when we talk about pluralities of views in all programs, it's still inclusive, but when someone puts the word in above all third parties, which, therefore, means in spaces where there are people giving their opinion, I could hear 'that this Parliament is saying that it looks like the people think at the time to invite them to some programs. It could be. I don't want to go in there, because the attitude has been constructive and, therefore, I won't go in more depth here, because I think the emphasis is on something else, but this is the reason, not others, for this reason, for which we ask one thing that is not so hard: that this point is withdrawn from the seat, or in any case vote against it because it is not there, and at the time of debating legislative reform processes or other debates that we can try to fine-tune a little more in the language. We hope, we share it; the last part of the paragraph that I gave to the third parties, and above all, we believe that it is not a good thing to put it in this debate and in this proposal that had been so good. Because, listen, the deal wasn't just majorities, it was very fast. Because in what suits the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, at the time of making the proposal, with nuances, with some differences, we all agree. In time to make the receipt, in time to make the proposal, we all agree and we agree quite quickly. Where do we disagree? – and some interventions in a clear example. It's time to do the diagnosis. There haven't been many reviews, we agreed, but there have been obviously false but apocalyptic speeches that are missing from the truth. And then when he says, "Historical opportunity. True, there have been constructive elements that will allow us to do things, sure – sure – but we have given the opportunity to some to make false, demagogic speeches and that the people who esteem the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation are not worth it. The young lady went well to make a type of speech, to focus on the diagnosis. Given the concern for the good health of the corporation that some parliamentary groups of this Parliament have, hypocrisy is ascribed to it. Because they did not speak well of what the young man contained, but of names. Some who now worry them very much, only a year ago wanted to close it. Others had said that things had to be taken out of a television that we are all very concerned about now. In any case, those who wanted to close it a year ago, welcome to this concern; but, behind this concern, there is hypocrisy. And this is where we think we need to spin a little bit more prime. The example... it wasn't irony, it was good faith, Mrs. Levy. I told the control committee, the new director of TV3, when everyone said that there was a breakdown, I said to him, "Home, you should be a journalist, because the name without that, which is what the people ask of us, professional criteria. You're supposed to be a journalist. And he said to me: "It is already soc, as a journalist. Says: "Well, then, more of a journalist, you should have experience in the corporation. And he says to me, "Well, it's been thirty years since I worked at the corporation. I say: "But in any case, I should have had some direction before I was appointed director of TV3. Says: "I've got radio information, I've got TV3 information, I pulled Catalonia Information when they gave him a Waves prize. I said, "Well, then, maybe we're not talking about journalistic criteria. And it's not ironic, it's that someone cheats; it's that someone takes advantage of some constructive proposals to make demagogic. If they are concerned about the salvation of public communication media, speaking in favor, do not vacate with their speech to hurt the prestige of our television and of our public radio. [[Some applause.]] It is a shame – it is a shame – that behind the supposed concern of some parliamentary groups for the good health of the corporation there is hypocrisy. Many thanks, President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.81.0	Next, the words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.82.0	Well, thank you. We will vote in favour of the majority of points in the motion. The program contract, therefore, is to give it off, and to do so, we add, with the maintenance of the staff and the recovery of labor rights. And this is a demand from the TV3 and Catalunya Radio workers who want to be a dynamic that began with the entry of the current director of the corporation, Mr. Brauli Duart, who has given place to many "disadvantages with the workers. With the new legislature, there was an opportunity to move and it didn't happen. So, you just have to do it. It must be done because it is not possible to make a public television with most of the workers engaged; a radio, a public television. And a good way to do this is to approve the motion: return to the 2007 law. Totally fine. It seems that there is a consensus to say that it is the sole of deregulation from which it is possible to build a better model and which would, therefore, generate this consensus. But when the law of the corporation opens, we don't have to just go back to 2007. The same Councillor Tresserras, who helped to bring that law into being, said that it is not enough to de-governmentalize it, because we can enter it, therefore, then it is in a party, too; that is to say, the parties pacting to make majorities, but also influencing the direction and therefore the line of the media. I was told by the advisor in this interesting dossier on co-management that we have had all the representatives of the control committee get to the TV3 workers involved in this co-management initiative, and therefore, in this sense, we would talk about incorporating these issues into the law reform. Co-management, for us, therefore, as princes, on our part; television, for which it works, we could say. The directors pass, but the workers are the ones who contain, the ones who retain the accumulated knowledge. Finally, point 5, the point of discord, in which we have not been able to agree, in which the proposers, therefore, have not accepted only the items that refer to that point. We do not agree with this point, above all, for the political interpretation that will most likely end up giving. The plurality in the Catalan media is better, of course. Medium. In the early years of the crisis, the critical observer of the media made a report on the positioning of radio and television tertullians in relation to the detail and their social impact and a study that demonstrated a clear link between the tertullian universe and the right. Also, this pluralism we have suffered in our own flesh and I remember especially, so, a four against u that we have made to our company Eulàlia in a program of public radio and..., why, if we look at the number of Tertullians who can sympathize with our thesis, let us say, that as a popular unit, therefore, this plurality would leave much to desire. Now, we all know that if the Catalan public media is in the spotlight, it's because of the debate between unionism and independence, the nationalist crust has served in a time, teleprocesses, has been served more recently, and other mental marks in which the approval of point 5 is interpreted, in which it is questioned, therefore, the plurality of third parties. And in that, then, we can't agree. You would charge the ACC with this regulation of plurality in third parties and the fact is that we also made a good report on plurality which we had previously mentioned, the Media. The critical observer of the media, analyzing all the great public and private media in the Catalan and Spanish fields during a week at the end of 2013. I'm not going to beat them with the wind then, but I'm going to teach them four formattings. [[The timer shows some graphs to the chamber.]] In those tertulies, based on the analysis of those tertulies: Catalan public media, Tertulians in favour of the 9-N consultation, Tertulians against, quite similar to the parliamentary majorities that existed at that time; Catalan public media, Tertulians in favour of independence and against independence, more or less..., of course, is better, probably. Point five's going this way, I'm sure. Now, Spanish media, supporters of independence? Zero. Do you support the 9 November consultation? Zero. [[Some applause.]] This is a problem, therefore, it can improve in plurality, yes, very, always and can start with who are really few or plural people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.83.0	In order to make a statement on the reports, Mr. David Pérez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.84.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. In fact, in the previous point I have already expressed myself on the issues and now I will take advantage of it to clarify what we are talking about, that I think there has been enough unanimity in everything we are talking about, but there is an element of discrepancy, which is what we keep talking about. Mr. Cuminal wants to justify the later names that have been made to the body when the unions are against it. All political groups in this Parliament, all except their own, are against it, even the CUP. Journalists' College is against it, private-world journalists are against how these appointments have been made, and the common sense that working more and more in gender equality is not naming six men from six appointments; it is not justifiable. And we think – and we have said this in the House – that this can work differently. To highlight, also, the unanimity of all parliamentary groups – of all parliamentary groups – of this Parliament to go, another time, to the Tresserras law, especially in the two-thirds and the three parliamentary groups. And what is it that we don't agree with? We don't agree with the last point, the point of "necessary, especially, to third parties, huh? We say that this especially, this plurality of voices, also in tertules, we are talking about the voice of the woman, the voice of the young, the voice of the different, the voice of the territories. We're talking about this, us and the BBC, huh? According to the BBC, this is what we want, and we want public television not to compare it to Spanish television, but to compare it to European television. This is our criteria and our understanding. By the way, the same grip that the ACC has, the same, huh? , to the last report that came to us this morning, on page 8, literally: "The need for media to express and represent social plurality. Indeed, beyond political pluralism, especially in information spaces, debates and discussions. That's what you say. Now, let's tell them and they can't vote for it anymore. It's unfair, you believe me, it's unfair and you're not right. The CAC said: it must work, especially in plurality, also in third parties, in debate programmes and in information and there is no way – there is no way. You don't want to accept it? Well, then, perfect, we won't. I insist, I stay with the positive side, Jordi Cuminal. I think we agreed. I believe that public radio and television workers have seen, in a debate, that parliamentary groups can agree with us on a public radio and television project that the country needs. The contract program we can do, as was done the last time for the socialist Joan Majó. I think this can be done again. Certainly, no other program contracts have been made since then. And in Joan Majó he did it seeking resources from the Generalitat de Catalunya. We may have stopped making openings, but we had a program contract that gave the corporation five years worth of funding. At this point, we don't have that, so much so that we haven't been able to agree until the end. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.85.0	Call it a vote. Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.86.0	By separate vote of point 5. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.87.0	We shall vote separately on point 5, as requested. So now we're voting point five. The vote begins. Point 5 was rejected by 61 votes to 67, with 3 abstentions. We'll vote for the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into external action]] [[302-00017/11]] The point of the order of the day is: Motion following the question to the Government on external action, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Ms. Susana Beltrán. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.88.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, honourable counselor..., the motion that Ciutadans presents is a motion on external action, and I insist on this point, because it is external action and not other things, right? We, in this young man, want to make clear the importance of what external action is for Catalonia, for the city as a whole and, therefore, already in the hood of this young man, let us be aware that we do not only want external action, but also that we want to promote external action. Surely on the second side, with the replies, I will also have occasion to clarify the points that very, very kindly presented to us by the Socialist Party and perhaps I will also have occasion to talk a little more about this, about the different areas of external action, right? But we do want, therefore, to reaffirm this fact of encouraging it. Now, this outside action has limits, it's not anything. These limits are marked for the same autonomy status, for Article 193– I no longer refer to the Constitution, eh? – and these limits, therefore, make reference to what is competence, which, moreover, is not a shared competence, is an exclusive competence of the State in the matter of international relations. And international relations, external matters, is a very sensitive matter for any country, also for Spain, because it refers to the manifestation of international subjectivity, right? The fact of being subject will rise. Of these limits, it was possible to speak or to speak of case law. That is to say, there are criteria to see what is the difference between what would be foreign policy, what would be foreign policy and what would be external action, and, taking into account these limits, so you could have approved laws in Spain, read them in this autonomous community, because, therefore, Catalonia can have external action. The problem – and so, let's be aware of it, shall we not? , in this case – it is not external action, it is the theme of the promotion and dissemination of the secessionist process, which, in reality, is not external action, it is to want to do foreign politics to create a state. And that's another thing, and that doesn't fit between what external action would be like. But, at the same time, we wanted to insist on this young man, because it seems to us that it is very – very – important to find spaces, to find dialog spaces, to find communication spaces, where there is representation of political plurality, there is also dialogue with the government to fine-tune much – much more – external action, and that could come too far, much – much – far – far, far, far, far, far more than international relations would be, wouldn't it? And this is the sense of the point of this young man, which is also a possibility that allows the same law of external action of Catalonia, and it is one of the points that has not been suspected by the Constitutional Court, and that allows, therefore, to establish a communication dialog between the government and the different political forces, between the Parliament, just in order to be able to dialogue in truth, isn't it? This impulse and this way of communication seem very interesting to us also probably to avoid being constantly ahead of the Constitutional Court, because we do not find ourselves as we sometimes go, that international interlocutors, for example, tell us that they have written from the Foreign Affairs Council to other foreign ministers in Europe and it turns out that this chamber and the different political groups do not know anything about it, right? Then, precisely a councillor who is said of Transparency, and who is the only thing that has not been suspected for the Constitutional Court, would be very grateful that for avoiding these comments from international interlocutors, and that cause mistrust of the different political forces..., so it could be avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.89.0	Next, has the word Mr Ferran Pedret to defend the papers presented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.90.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members and Members, first of all, to thank the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans and its spokesman for this motion for the possibility of having granted one of the three papers presented to it by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in this text. The truth is that we regret, however, that we have not accepted, or assumed, the item number 1 that we presented to you. I take advantage of the occasion from the Faristol to ask him to make a final review of this decision. Because we understand that what we proposed to you does not alter the background of what you raised at the first point in the writing of the motion and, in change, completes what we understand to be a view of the external action of the Generality, which is not in absolute contrast to what the same Law of External Action regulates. In the background, we do not agree with what it would be possible to understand that you are planting in the first paragraph, that the external action of the Generalitat should be limited to promoting the internationalization of Catalan enterprises, attracting investments, and therefore to making a pocket purely in the economic future. We understand that there are many others. To give concrete expression to some, therefore the international promotion of Catalan language and culture, the question of the promotion of Catalonia as its international organizations, the support to Catalan communities abroad, etc. So, we think it's good that this is embedded in the vision that is transmitted from the Parliament of what the external action of the Generality should be. Of course, we do not share the view that the mechanisms and bodies at the disposal of the Generality for external action are being used to promote a particular political vision of the country, or a certain political project, or of the independentist, or it would seem to us that it is something else. And I must also say that, for the sake of the question of the rebalancing of the expenditure you are raising in the fifth paragraph, which is precisely where we have been taken over, we have wanted to make this addition, which refers to a comprehensive and independent review of the public expenditure of the Generality. Because it seems to us that if we speak solely and exclusively of the public expenditure that is made in the field of the external action of the Generality, it is certain that we can always look at optimising the use of public resources, and that it must be done as a general criterion, but the truth is that we speak, in colloquial terms, but perhaps a little less informal than they are used since this faristol, the chocolate of tears, eh? We are not talking about presuppositional parties that really suppose a long and a long time ago and that allow, from the point of view of the future, to deploy very ambitious social policies, etc. We really are talking about an external action that, from the point of view of the economic cost, is not, to put it this way, ostentatious, nor do I think that it can be said that it is a superfluous expense if we hold other suppositions in which probably the student could be much greater. From here, to say that it seems to me that it would be good for us to really be able to find consensus around this external action of the Generality. It seems to me that this should be the guide and the guideline. They haven't happened in the past few years, but if there is a sincere will to look for them, both from the government and from parliamentary groups, then I think we must make every effort to do so. I must say that I am skeptical of the issue, because it seems to me that it is quite obvious that the same political project of the Government that is currently in charge of Catalonia makes it difficult. But I don't want to recall that apocryphal quote attributed to Estanislau Figueras at the June of 1873, which is well known and I won't reproduce. Because the truth is that when we debate questions about the external action of the Generalitat, as in so many other questions that come back to this Farist, sometimes they come to remember those words of the federalist insignia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.91.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word Joan Josep Nuet, of Catalonia Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.92.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, well, I think we're all aware that today's debate has a context. We have been dampened with the latest initiative of the Government of the State, of the People's Party, against the self-government of Catalonia. And so, when we discuss this young man, we don't do it in the air, we do it with the little ones on the ground. I want to begin by reading a sentence from the Preamble of the Law of External Action of this Parliament, which this Parliament approved and which regulates the external action of the Government of the Generality. Says the second paragraph: "From the dispositions of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, the fact that the Generality develops an external action no longer derives so much from a political practice, but becomes obligatory character and configures a legally established scope of action. What are we talking about, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament? Let's talk about the fact that some in this chamber believe that the Government of Catalonia has the right and the right to develop a policy of foreign action, and other political formations, I don't know. Well, some of us do know: they don't steal it, they don't accept it. And, therefore, it is important, at the time of speaking about this proposal, to think if we believe that the Government of the Generality has the right to have an external action council to develop its competitions. And I say it and I repeat it: to develop their skills. But if we take over the State, which I have up here and I have left it, it is filled with proposals and actions of external action. There are many examples. You can talk about the offices, you can talk about the català, you can talk about the internationalization of sport, the policies of lleure, you can talk about the European Union... And I ask: what are we going to do with all that says the State, which is an organic law of the State and which, therefore, we must complete? How are we gonna do this? So, well, maybe there are people who... that can be done with an office. There are no others we believe can be done with a councillor. This is the debate we're defining today. And, therefore, we would have liked to have found a different place. And we say, of course, to the group and to the deputy proposing, with the major of respect, you know. Say, the young lady, "encourage. Start with the words 'promote'. But then, quickly, it comes in to reduce competition, reduce resources, control agendas... And we would have liked a young man who talked about what we need to do. Because you said, honourable Member: "The limits, we must be aware of the limits. But why don't you look at the full Mig bottle, like us, and not Mig Buida, how does your parliamentary group do it? Why don't they talk about the enormous statutorial potentials we have to achieve a policy of foreign action that will emmirate the world, if they want, that prestige of Catalonia's self-government? It's another way to approach the same competitions. Not some more. The same ones. And, therefore, we defended that it was an uncertain decision, to create the External Action Council. Because it's a rank message. And, obviously, the Constitutional Court and the Government of the State went beyond the name. But I have to tell you that the Law of External Action of the State is a law of lower rank than the Statute of Catalonia and that, therefore, the Constitutional Court cannot carry the competences that we have, competences that for some of us are still very limited. Therefore, this is a central element. Yes to the control of transparency; yes to the control of the government and of what it does, and to the criticism of what it does not do well. But I must remind you that the Foreign Minister has an obligation, for the Foreign Action Law of the State, to compare to the Congress once a year to give explanations of his foreign action. This is the proposal that only the People's Party voted. And here are groups that practically ask that the counselor and the president every fifteen days should pass the travel agenda, with whom they meet and what agreements they have about, and possibly they would like to know until and what they took, if they took a refreshment. You're overreacting. It's absolutely excessive. After this proposal there is another idea, which is what I said to the principle: that we do not trust it. We also have the announcement that we will bring to this Parliament a proposal for transparency and control of the government's external action. But we'll do it in democratic and European terms...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.93.0	Mr. Nuet...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.94.0	...and I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.95.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.96.0	...and not to demagic that the majority of European Union countries are submissive to their foreign ministers or their regional external leaders, who are not many and exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.97.0	Next, there is the words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.98.0	Thank you, President. Adviser, Members, Members, from the Catalan People's Party we have always shown ourselves in favour of effective and efficient external action, focused on attracting investment, talent and tourism, and also on cultural promotion and our exports. But that, Mr. Nuet, does other departments, not what we're dealing with today. The problem is that the disenfranchised word department, the changing name, the mutant name, does not have any – no – of these objects, does not exercise any of these functions. The department that is supposed to direct external action is dedicated to other tasks, is dedicated to other needs. It is dedicated to counteracting Spanish foreign policy, as they have acknowledged, and to thus squandering resources from Catalans, doing something that we are not interested in and which does not suit us. That is why we will vote in favour of the first point of the motion and we will also do the second, third and fourth points, because it is about the same thing that the People's Party demands in the motion that we continue to present: that the suspension agreed by the Constitutional Court on 16 December and that the organization chart and the competences of the Generality be adapted to this suspension. We simply ask that the law be fulfilled and that Catalan money be devoted to solving problems and not creating them from us, since what they are doing now, or what they intend to do, has a name: "misrepresentation. Misappropriation of the resources of the Catalans released to the brush of confrontation, misappropriation of the energies of many Catalans and the rest of the Spanish that we are trying to pull into this country all together. The current Government of the Generality, therefore, is a government « of autonomous misappropriation, because with this fraudulent use of the resources and energies of the Catalans will not manage to divide us, but they will put at risk the autonomy, and these, those who are autonomous, know that neither we are interested nor interested. In this sense, in order to avoid the misuse of resources, we will also vote in favour of the fifth point of this motion. Finally, it respects the point that demands transparency on the agenda of the president and the councillor, mirin, I read yesterday an interview that was given to the councillor of the matter. I like to follow what the counselor says because, as you know, I've self-proclaimed myself a minister in the shadows, even though I'm not close; I'm not close, I know, but I'm illusory, right? , and that's why it's a bit of a Catalan policy right now. And in the interview I read that the counselor says that his government, textually, "is the center of the world debate. He added that he had an extraordinary international agenda and that world leaders were continually re-emerging. "That can't be serious," I thought, "that's not normal. The distance between these statements and the reality that we perceive the common of mortals is great – it is great. These phrases are closer to a satirical publication, a humorous publication. In fact, with what I read yesterday, which was dimer, I thought: "Shut up, I'll still be reading Thursday, the magazine that comes out on Wednesdays. But no, no, it wasn't really Thursday, it was a debò interview, published at Tot Sant Cugat. It was serious. Totally, that of the center of the world debate, of the extraordinary international agenda and of the number of representatives paying tribute to the process has provoked me an immense curiosity, and has decided to vote in favour, also, to the point on transparency in the agendas of the president and the councillor, because perhaps there is a reality that is not true, or perhaps that all this is a nice hippo, as when TV3 subtitled with the phrase "drawings of world leaders some images of Mr.Artur Mas and Mr. Xavier Trias". In short, apply transparency, which this competence is not subject to the Constitutional Court; apply transparency, because this is the best vaccine against fantasy and deception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.99.0	Next, has the word Ms. Anna Gabriel, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.100.0	Well, good morning to you all. Citizens' deputies and deputies usually take to the chamber, in their committees as well, everything they want to see with regard to fixing and shielding the competition distributions and the compliment of the statutory and constitutional marks. I also believe that you have another thread, which is that of the defense of the social, economic and cultural interests of Catalans, or of Catalonia, which you obviously assimilate to the social, economic and cultural interests of Spain. Because for you it's all and it's exactly the same. In the first case, you reassert yourself in the armoring of the competitive, constitutional or autonomous distribution, even if it's unfair, huh? For you the principle of legality is what prevails; legitimity, somehow, you might care less, huh? And it's not the first time you've been in the room, so, manifestations of this type. In the past legislature, without going any further, I think that in July 2015, you already presented a motion that went in a very similar sense. You planted at that time the elimination of the Diplomacy, for example, that it is also an organism, therefore, that does not interest you. In any case, foreign policy, from the principle of legality, is certain to be an exclusive competence of the Spanish State. You do not want to touch this, therefore, we assume that you feel comfortable with the diplomatic policy of the Spanish State. I suppose you're fine with the role that the Spanish State plays in international geopolitics. Not for us. And precisely independence is an engine of transformation, too, of international politics. For us, foreign policy could be an opportunity to explain to us the world of solidarity, it would be an opportunity to place us on the fringe of these armed alliances that create so much pain and so much suffering from the world. For us, international politics would be the diplomacy that you open up borders, that you explained the richness that this country has and that you explained that shooting from the Catalan Countries there are people like you, that you do not want to leave the Spanish State, liberals, that defend capitalism. We, in our international policy, would explain that our country is rich and diverse and that there are people like you. I don't know if that's exactly what the Spanish State explains when it does international politics. I don't know if the Spanish is drawing this inner wealth that it has in its if, the State, and if it's respectful of these differences. I believe that if there is any international policy that indoctrinates and is sectarian it is precisely that of the Spanish State. There is a whole other battery of arguments that would tend to see what we think about the Constitutional Court – which you, too, obviously, demand is complete, so all your feelings, suspensions, etc. – but we have divided the argument a little bit. We reserve it to answer the People's Party's motion, which, in this case, is completely coincidental, the objectives of Ciutadans and the People's Party; you could have done it together, which would be a little the same. Therefore, take yours, too, the arguments that will continue to come that you have to see, therefore, with the PP. And lastly, a proposal, if you will allow me the suggestion: enter the motion to the Spanish Congress, ask the Spanish Government for truth that has an external action, an international policy that is respectful of its internal plurality; ask the Spanish Government, if it comes to conform government – which you probably know, more than we do – and work, indeed, because it is an external action that has international relations of quality. And we will celebrate the day that we can relate bilaterally, when you are in the Government of the Spanish State or in opposition and we have an independent Catalan republic, and we will see who has the best international relations. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.101.0	Next, has the word Ms. Marta Pascal, from Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.102.0	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Councillor, Members, Members, go ahead to what you do not surprise, which is our vote against this motion, for all that we have been explaining and for consistency, too, with which from then on I am going down. Historical coherence. This country takes external action not from four days ago, nor from the year 1982, when the deployment of autonomy formally began. We can pay much more in between: Comfort of the Sea, therefore, medieval age. This is a country that has always wanted to explain itself to others, that has wanted to have relations to others, and that has developed the institutions that have been needed to make this possible. Therefore, from the outset, historical coherence. Legal consistency. Deputy Nuet has read perfectly the phrase of this Law of Foreign Action, despite the Constitutional Court. But, listen, the state of autonomy, you, who always claim us to complete the laws, listen, when the generality does external action, which is to complete the law, because we have competitions and we can do it. For tarannà. For which this country has always wanted to do. They don't make us what we're not. We are an open, dynamic, rich country with the will to interact with the world and with Europe and, therefore, what we will not do is to give up all the tools we have to project what Catalonia means and what the institutions of this country mean and what all the fabric means, I insist, dynamic that we have. What you want is for us to be admiring ourselves in what is the foreign policy of the Spanish Government. So, no – so, no –, and out of the way, because repeatedly in this young man you talk about what the State is doing. I'm setting them an example that's presupposing, but in the end, it's a model example. Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget for this year: EUR 1,290 million, of which EUR 700 million on the budget. It is a model, which is not, precisely, the model of soft diplomacy that is what prevailed in the most modern countries. But it is that the assumption of the external action of the Generalitat de Catalunya is of, more or less, 17_million euros. Where do you see the fantasies? – where do you see the fantasies? Because if we compare ourselves to this retrograde action of the Spanish State, it seems to me that it's all said. But what do you want, the obsession you have, who is it? So silence us. And what do they want to silence? So, for example, the sales of Catalan companies this year 2015 have increased abroad by 6.1_per_cent, and in Spain, therefore, by 4.3, and in Europe by 4.2. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, We're not talking about Catalunya. 2015, historical record of Catalan exports; 17_million tourists in this year 2015 who have visited Catalonia. There are not many, many examples of things that can explain that we are doing. And, above all, they have this obsession to change what is the most powerful democratic movement in southern Europe in this 21st century. And we won't give up any of this. You want us to come with the Spanish brand and the Spanish brand do not come, ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans and the PP, do not come from the way. What we want to explain is what we are and what we want to do. And finally, just a reference to the point of this young man. Your complaint about the 15 days – has been explained on the part of other spokespersons. Listen, this isn't the principle of transparency. Here you see the lauter. That's what it is, is to deliberately stop what the government's external action is. And Congresswoman Beltran appeals to the dialyx space. I don't know how we can go to dialog if every day in the morning we find ourselves with a new proposal to the Constitutional Court in everything that refers to the government's external action. Therefore, do not appeal to dialog spaces when it is precisely the Government of the People's Party, and you are very comfortable, to carry repeatedly everything you make reference to external action to the Constitutional Court. And finally, one more comment. He said the Member of Parliament respects whether or not we are more or less situated in the world. You're the ones who put us there. That's what Councilman Romeva said. By deliberately bringing all the generality's external action to the courts, you're making a fool of yourself. And do you know that? So, because the world has fixed and talked about it. Therefore, please review this obsession that they have to try to upset us, because we will give up being the one who we are and explain it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.103.0	To pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Susana Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.104.0	Thank you all for the comments, the positives, the not so positives. PSC, we thought about it a lot if we accepted item 1, but in the end we decided not to do it, just because we heard that our number one point wasn't a clausus number but all the opposite, right? Then, with the definition that you're obstructing, maybe we'll just leave other things out. Then, when we talk about encouraging – encouraging – external action, so, precisely what we want to say is to leave it all open, because, indeed, the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, Mr Nuet, has many skills that could have international projection, and that will depend on the sensitivities at every moment there is so that it develops more or develops more. With respect to the five-year-old emena, isn't it? , the contribution that we make to each other..., which we have accepted to make a full review, independent of public spending, not only totally agree, but also that much better this point and, more importantly, we believe, even more so, that it gives us ideas, also, therefore, to present it to the Congress and why it is taken into account at the time of assessing the external action service of the State as well. Or so, in this sense, very grateful and a very, very positive contribution. It's Pot, too. No, no, it's that we're, we're trying to be constructive, we're trying to be very positive on a subject that is governing us, so, to Catalan society in a very, very sensitive way on the part of all of us, right? And then, it's not that we see the bulb full or empty, it's that we want to get out of this before all of us, all folds. Here in Parliament it has been shown: when there is political will, many things can be achieved, and also in international projection. And here is also the idea that this dialing mark... which, moreover, Mrs Junts' Deputy for the Yes, is a possibility that she is allowed, that she is setting up the law of external action in Catalonia, and only what we want to do is to deploy it, not to be suspected, such..., and it is a way of avoiding that, therefore, may be more likely to arrive at the Constitutional Court. That's why this predisposition we have for the sixth point..., if it doesn't come forward now, because you will vote against it, so it will go forward further, because we need all, late or late, all the citizens of Catalonia, in the first place at home, to agree. Mrs. CUP MP, we'll bring it, huh? We'll talk to the Congressional Companions because they're bringing this proposal you're looking at, because it's also better, so, the outside action of the State, and... well, we're citizens of Catalonia, right? I mean, we're here and we're in the conjunct of the state...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.105.0	Mrs. Beltran, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.106.0	...we're all over the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.107.0	Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] Before we proceed to the vote, does anyone want to ask for a separate vote for any point? [[Pause.]] Mr. Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.108.0	President, for a separate vote on point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.109.0	Anyone else ask for a separate vote? [[Pause.]] So, we'll start by voting point one and then we'll vote the rest of the vote. Therefore, the vote begins by voting on point 1. Point 1 was rejected by 34 votes to 82, with 16 abstentions. We'll vote for the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 49 votes to 82, with no abstentions. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the gathering of refugees to Europe]] [[401-00009/11]] Then we read a statement by the Catalan Parliament on refugees. I ask the Vice President first to read this statement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.110.0	« Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the gathering of refugees to Europe. The Parliament of Catalonia condemns all violations of international human rights, human rights and, in particular, children's rights, demands the fictitiousness of the violence in Syria and expresses its support for the search for a political solution to the conflict by means of inclusive, unconditional talks that respect the rights and aspirations of the Syrian people and culminate in free and democratic elections. The Parliament of Catalonia, which is committed to the universal values of democracy, justice and freedom, before the gravity of the situation suffered by people fleeing armed conflicts, states that the gathering of refugees is a duty for all democratic countries, as established by the Geneva Convention, which, as I recall, forms part of our legality. In view of the pre-agreements which took place on March 7th at the summit between the European Union and Turkey and which are to be discussed in the Council of Europe on March 17th and 18th, the Parliament of Catalonia expresses its concern that these pre-agreements can seriously violate the legislation that protects refugees and stifles the humanitarian crisis that they are living, and calls on the Government to block the pre-agreement and put forward the protection of persecuted people. The Catalan Parliament calls on the Catalan, Spanish and European institutions to step up concrete actions to improve living conditions in refugee camps and transit routes and to pay special attention to the most vulnerable groups of conflict – minorities, women and children – prioritising their food, education and psychological recovery and facilitating family reunification. The Catalonian Parliament states that, in the same way that many Catalans and Catalans found refuge when fleeing the dictatorship, today Catalonia wants to take responsibility for gathering refugees according to democratic principles, human rights and an open and solid society model. For this reason, Parliament expresses the willingness of Catalonia, the host country, to cooperate in the resettlement and direct arrival of refugees, in accordance with international laws and the United Nations High Commission for Refugees, and calls on all citizens and all institutions to cooperate in the gathering and integration of refugees while they are in Catalonia. Palau del Parlament, March 17, 2016. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.111.0	The agenda item is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on actions to adapt to the suspension of certain competitions of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the actions to adapt to the suspension of certain competitions of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency]] [[302-00018/11]] To expose it has the word Mr Xavier García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.112.0	All right. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Today the members of the People's Party of Catalonia present a motion, a motion that is simple, clear and concrete. And what do we ask of this young man? So one thing that is obvious to us, and to the vast majority of parliaments all over the world where there is a democratic system, and what we ask is that the laws are being completed. As I said, surely, if what happens in the political field in this Parliament of Catalonia was a procedure, was a normal process of parliamentary activity, this young man would not need it. But the reality is that the functioning that we are living in this legislature in the Catalan Parliament, where the government systematically, with the support of its majority of Members and Members..., have made a clear commitment not to respect the laws, not to respect the state of law in all aspects that do not coincide with its political ideas or that do not coincide with its ideology. Therefore, we are experiencing a situation of parliamentary disproposal, of political disproposal, which has a very concrete translation when it was created, when it was developed by the Government of Catalonia. On the 16th, the Constitutional Court, on the 16th of February, notified the Government of Catalonia that it had to adjust, concretely, that which referred to the Council of Foreign Affairs, that it had to adjust to the legality; that it had to be suspended – that it had to be suspended–, concretely, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs. From that moment on, you, the members of the government, Mr. Romeva, have played the ambiguity, have played the tide, have played the fun. In particular, the President of the Generalitat was allowed to make jokes and jokes saying that he would not post typex to his visiting posts. I'm telling you that we feel sorry for all this spectacle we've experienced since that moment, that you, as I told you, served them, so, to try to disguise, to say that yes, but no, but that at these moments, and between a few minutes, when we vote for the People's Party's motion, they won't be needed anymore. And it won't serve you, Mr. Romeva and Mr. Juntes for the Yes and the UPC, and I don't know if Catalonia Yes it is, because they will have to pronounce themselves in their parliament. And what you vote for here today, beyond a political responsibility, may be held accountable in other areas. Our young man – and that's why he said that he's a very clear, very simple, two-point young man – doesn't get into political evaluations. The motions are normally an instrument for expressing a political will of the group that presents it. It's not our case. This young man doesn't get into political appreciation, he's a young man with whom we don't appreciate what we think, and it's that surely these delusions of greatness that the Government of Catalonia has, so they're counterproductive to the image of Catalonia. We do not value – and with all due respect, Mr Romeva – that we think that you, with your attitude, are making the ridiculous, no longer at the national level, but also at the international level. We don't appreciate it with the young man, so there's a consultant you have, and a secretary, in concrete terms, who has a lot of other things that don't have competition. Let's not judge that there are delegations without offices abroad. He pointed out in the previous motion the representative of Junts for the Yes, he said: "It is that the diplomatic body of the Government of Spain, of the Spanish State, I don't know how much, he said. Listen to me, but you have skills. The problem, do you know what it is? The problem, as I said, is that here in Catalonia we're playing to have a diplomatic thing when they know it's not possible. So, it's a young man, as I said, that what I'm asking is that it's respect for the state of law we have in Catalonia, because with the actions that are due at the end, and especially with regard to the advice that you preside over, Mr. Romeva, it's a denied message, it's a contradictory message that we're getting to Catalans. How is it possible that we continue to be unable, therefore, to accept, because we do not like it, because ideologically we do not agree, the suspension, the decision by a court of a suspension of a secretary general? What message, Mr Romeva, and what messages, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, are we launching at the conjunction, no longer of the Catalans, but of the same investors who want to come to Catalonia? What legal security are we giving you? Not one of them. Therefore, Mr. Romeva, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, of Juntes per el Si and of the CUP, I don't know what they were talking about – end of story, Madam President – makes a couple of days the President of the Generality and Mr. Pedro Sánchez – Mr. Iceta, I don't know; surely you know better –, what I can assure you is that, beyond the agreements, of the promises that may have come...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.113.0	Mr. García Albiol, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.114.0	...I can assure you that while the People's Party is ruling Spain, no one will break Catalonia or separate us from Spain. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.115.0	Then, as long as no papers have been submitted, let's move on to the turn of speeches by parliamentary groups to fix their position. In the first place, has the word Susana Beltrán, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.116.0	Thank you, President. Well, the problem remains the same as it referred to earlier: international relations, foreign policy is the exclusive competence of the State, in a matter that is very sensitive to any country in the world, also to Spain. And the fact, isn't it? a few years ago, that the autonomous communities could, therefore, develop relations within the European Union and external action always was or always is on the condition that the exclusive competence of the State is respected, and this is established by the Statute of Autonomy, judgments of the Constitutional Court endorsed by magistrates you know very well, as Carles Viver i Pi-Sunyer, and that is what has allowed and what can allow much more to be done in the future, isn't it? What happens when these frames are not respected? What happens when the rules of play are not respected? Well, what's going on is that every two_minutes we have an appeal before the Constitutional Court; when I was, too, even preparing the motion, I no longer knew what could be done, what could not be done, anyway. And I am sorry – I am sorry – that this framework of dialogue, which is in the Catalan Foreign Action Act, which allows not only to control the Government but also to promote actions, could not be approved, because surely we could avoid many disgusts and many strange relations that are going to end up before the Constitutional Court. And you also think that you respect the law in this case... or, rather, the rules of play, don't you? If we want to change things, then there are procedures that we must all respect, because, if not, this is something like a jungle. Well, anyway, what we have to do is talk, talk and see what we can do and what we can't do. Respecting the competitive frameworks, the rules of play, generates confidence. To generate confidence, it is what allows us to do so many things more than at the moment; voting not for everything, therefore, many doors are closed, and also an increasing distrust among the citizens of Catalonia that is not in favour of the separatist process and that sees that the council is being used, is called one way or is called another, to skip the rules of play, those rules of trust..., and to create a state by the way of the accomplished facts. The more aggressive, right? So it is this progress..., it is also normal that those with competence want to safeguard, protect the citizens of the whole state, right? , which is also their obligation, and therefore needs to be much more demanding when, in the autonomous communities, as in the case of Catalonia, they are seen with very bad eyes, at best, certain actions, which would not be seen this way if a climate of trust really existed. Now, when the Parliament of Catalonia or, rather, part of it, does it not? So on 9 November he decided – and also put it in writing – to skip the very essence of this Parliament of Catalonia and to throw the right, so surely that day many, many doors were closed, and also, honourable councillor, at international level and also within..., in our house, right? On this earth. Rebuilding those... it's not "bridges, rebuilding our houses, is it? , rebuild houses in the sense of seeing those points on which we can agree, therefore, it will not be easy as long as they are rotundos..., be it in Spain, because some are jumping the rules clearly and others because they just want to dialogue how we separate, but nothing more. In the end, those who get hurt are all the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.117.0	Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.118.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, well, presents to us the People's Party a motion that, in the background, goes to demand respect for autonomous competitions in the field of external action. I would like to begin the intervention by pointing out a curious fact, not simply a contradiction, which is that the People's Party appealed before the Constitutional Court the articles of the Catalonian State of Autonomy regulating the external action of the Generalitat; the Constitutional Court did not give them the right in this respect, as in so many others, and now, in change, sees the People's Party asking us that the external action of the Generalitat is sceptical to those powers which they used to resort to, right? As I said, it is not strictly a contradiction; they have all the right, obviously within our legal order, to claim that the government's action is shunned at these competitions, but it is still a curious fact. It also seems to us a curious fact that, on the part of the People's Party or Citizens, to whom we have often heard that the important thing is that in this Parliament we are talking about what really matters to the citizen and to the citizens of Catalonia, what really is raised from the economic and social point of view for the development of the people's daily lives, we find that in this plenary we have motions respecting the external action of the Generality, that we do not doubt, absolutely, that it is a matter of relevance and that it may have an impact on people's daily lives, but that it would not come to coincide with the fact that citizens and citizens constantly express in this whole public opinion about which are the main direct problems of the country. This contrasts with the attitude of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot or my own humble group, the Socialist Group, that we have brought motions in the matter of occupation to this Parliament with the modest intention of trying to deal with those things that really matter, according to our fellow citizens, not only to these questions but also every time we have occasion to interlocute them, which is often, as you know. Well, the People's Party asks us at the first point to adapt the competencies attributed to the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency to the suspension agreed for the Constitutional Court in its ruling of 16 February 2016. It seems to us that it is, and I say with the utmost respect, strictly unnecessary, in the sense that it is a temporary suspension, that, for what it does to the name of the department, with greater or lesser luck, a transitional provision has been added to the decree delimiting the competences of the departments of the Generality, and that it does not add additional measure to the same suspension on the part of the Constitutional Court, different from that which it would be appropriate to ask the Government to come to and abide by the terms of this suspension, and that, therefore, it refrains from contravening it, at least while this suspension does not arise or is transformed, by a judgment of the Constitutional Court, into an annulment. It is to the parliamentary control task, that we understand that it is not strictly done through motions but through other mechanisms available to the groups and the deputies, which correspond to prove whether or not the Government has refrained from respecting this temporary suspension that the Constitutional Court has granted. And, therefore, we, respect this point, we shall abstain from it. With regard to the second point, I suggest..., without much explanation, on the part of the Group of the People's Party, we simply suppress the Secretary of Foreign Affairs and of the European Union of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Perhaps we have not quite heard the reasons of the People's Party or what is the background to the question, but she is a secretary who, with one or other name, but basically with the same attributions, has existed with previous governments, in previous legislatures, and who we do not see why she should disappear when, at least, we adhere to what are her attributions on the paper, we understand that they are perfectly within the realm of statutory competence, that we already understand that they did not like them, but that they are the ones that the same Constitutional Court has come to confirm by not giving the reason to the People's Party in this part of their appeal. Therefore, we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.119.0	Next, there is the word Joan Josep Nuet, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.120.0	Thank you, President. Mr. García Albiol, you belong to a political party, the People's Party, which belongs to a government, the Government of Spain, which is claiming these last days of appearing at the Congress of Deputies serving an excuse of bad payer saying that they are a functioning government. But we would have liked this government to function, and this lack of strength that gives it to be a government in function, had it taken into account at the time of writing a new black note in the institutional confrontation between the Government of Catalonia and the Government of the State, and I went further: between the people of Catalonia and the rest of the people of Spain. Because you like it, that's what. And maybe that's why you turned into this young man's wallet today. More canya, more carb and more lenja in the fire. And, like more fire, you think they got better. So, they're wrong. Miri, the Law of External Action of the Spanish State – I know it well because I was putting this law to the Congress – makes it clear in its points 1, 3, 5 and 11 that there are autonomous competitions in external action and that these autonomous competitions in the direction of an external law can be charged, because, as I said in the previous point, a statute of Catalonia is an organic law of higher rank. But you're still with this mantra. Miri, in the framework of Europe, legislative action in international politics was normally reserved for the state the concepts of "foreign policy" and "diplomacy", and when we spoke of sub-state bodies, as in the case of Catalonia, it was normally spoken of "foreign action" and "paradiplomacy". I therefore believe that this Parliament, when it launched the External Action Act, made it clear, because it connected with a common legislative action in the framework of the European Union. In change, the People's Party government, when it pulled forward the Foreign Action Act, knows what you wanted? Eixample the concept to eat 'hot'; well, example the concept to tempt against the legitimate and constitutional powers of the statutes of autonomy of the second generation, which certainly approved competitions in external action. And, therefore, you, with this law that you have wanted is to re-centralize and eat the skills of the autonomous communities. And they want to re-use their party's Constitutional Court, because what they can't do with votes they do with a politicized and colonized Constitutional Court, among others, for their political formation. So, no. No, Mr Albiol, let's say no to your young man. Not just for what you're saying, but for your ill intentions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.121.0	Next is the words of Mrs. Anna Gabriel, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.122.0	Good morning again. The CUP - Creed Constituent, as you know, we decided to reject everything that came from the Constitutional Court; we voted for it and approved it in this chamber, we decided to declare the court illegitimate, and therefore we, that we used to be consistent with what we said we would do, so we came to do exactly this: we wanted what came from the Constitutional Court, assuming the consequences that we needed. He didn't warn us that Mr. Albiol was doing us, because we are fully aware and prepared, I insist, to assume what we need. But why have we decided to hate what comes from the Constitutional Court? So, because, in our view, it is a court that has lost all capacity to be able to fight in relation to conflicts of interest that may occur in the people and territories of the Spanish State. We believe that it is a court that has become a party and that responds to the interests of the party, and that, therefore, its suspensions and its sentences have no other intention than to put an end to the social and political conflicts that may exist. It eliminates the margins of sobriety that can arise in the different territories – and I don't speak only of national scope, I speak of many other themes. And it is that in only three years – in only three years – fifteen appeals against laws and standards have been filed with Parliament's law rank; fifteen, in three years. Resources that tried to avoid what? So, I don't know: laws that planned to consult citizens, laws that set tax charges on financial entities, on nuclear energy... As diem, it wasn't just against national sovereignty, but against any type of economic, cultural, territorial sovereignty of the type that follows. Moreover, the Constitutional Court, you know, has opened a lot of diari plans for its scandals: health of petitions for refusals of its magistrates; parties that have not stopped to party with the organ; longer than three years to appoint magistrates in 2010, altering the logic that had existed until the institution's gradual renewal; judges who hide the militancy from certain parties, who pay quotas while they hold the robe in place, prerogative that, in turn, do not have other courts of other institutions. More than 70_percent of cases brought by governments and by the Government of the State before the Constitutional Court are resolved in a manner favourable to the interests of these governments, with which, moreover, a certain specialization of governments has been generated to appeal to this court and, therefore, to adapt in a way, I believe, already, that explicit this legal operation, in which it no longer distinguishes who is a party and who is arbiter. With the judgment of the Statute, it became clear that the function reserved for this court was definitively altered, because it liked to alter the whole of an autonomous competition system; it opened a new legal stage, the stage of democratic exceptionality and, in this part of the Catalan Countries, the stage of the total disclaimed of this institution. In fact, look at the sympathy indexes that the Constitutional Court awakens, that have not stopped to descend alarmingly, not only to the Catalan Countries, but also to the conjunction of the Spanish State, which worries you so much. Therefore, we don't feel the duty to do what comes from the Constitutional Court, from the beginning to the end. The second part, the second point: delete the Secretary of Foreign Affairs. To us, the truth is that we would like to delete many things, very many. I will quote just a few – I would not have had time, with the few seconds left, to quote them all –: we have come here to suppress privileges; we would have liked to suppress corruption; we would have wanted to suppress fantasizing airports; we would have wanted to suppress many privatisations; we would have abolished the monarchy and everything that costs us, all the expense it entails; in fact, we would have been able to suppress all your policies in Valencia and the Islands; we would have abolished the GAL; we would have wanted to have suppressed many arrests, so many pains and so many taken; we would have wanted, in fact, been able to suppress the malson of the franchise and the farce of the Transition. But precisely, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs would not now be one of our priorities in the land of suppression. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.123.0	The words of Mr. Jordi Sendra, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.124.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, it is a great honor for me to bid for the first time on this road, and the first I want to say to you is that I am the son of Josep Sendra, a Tarragonian and nationalist, member of the Commission of the Twenty who drafted the State of Salt of the year 79 and deputy of this chamber from the year 84 to 92. He and the deputies of that time started a job: to build the Catalonia of the post-Franchism. He was, therefore, an autonomous member of Catalonia, and today, more than thirty years later, I am very proud and honoured to be a member of Parliament at this very exceptional time for Catalonia, and to be with the will to finish that job, to finally close the autonomous stage and to make Catalonia's independence with the majority and the support of the majority of this chamber. And to complete the mandate rejected for citizenship on 27 September, and while we build the state structures that allow us to keep the country prepared to pull independence forward, the Government of Catalonia, with the support of the parliamentary groups of Juntes for the Yes and CUP - Crida Constituent, will continue to do, among many other things, external action, as it has done in the past thirty-five years, and in the current format, including the Foreign Secretary. External action that is not only by political will, but also by the competitions to which the Statute obliges us; external action that is vital and necessary to defend the interests of the citizens of Catalonia, to promote the internationalization of enterprises, to spread Catalan culture and language, to encourage tourism, to manage immigration, to promote cooperation in development, and also to continue to feel the best region of southern Europe on investing, as the Financial Times reports these days. The foreign action of the Government must also explain the political situation that our country has seen today, with a democratic, civil and peaceful movement that claims that only the citizens of Catalonia who decide their future and that to do so today count on a large majority in this Parliament. And, as Councillor Munté said yesterday, our cams won't tremble. And that despite what the State says or does, which it does all the time against the interests of Catalonia, or despite what the Constitutional Court says or does, I remember, a court presided over by a People's Party activist, who more than ever stuck up his condition as a militant, and today's court lacked credibility and that from the State's judgment of 2010 until later, a few weeks ago, with the suspension of the External Afers Council, has begun a spiral of submissiveness to the PP government in its Croatian against Catalonia. I explain to you the short version of the disgraceful history of this court, which has never been able to fulfill on behalf of the Spanish Government its sentiments when these were in favor of the Government of Catalonia. The Spanish Government systematically fails to complete the judgments of the Constitutional Court in favour of the territorial management of 0.7_per_cent of the IRPF, and this represents 20_million euros, 20_million euros that the Catalan social entities cease to be entitled to devote to social purposes, such as grants to cooperation and social volunteering programmes or grants to local entities for the development of innovative programmes in favour of the care of immigrants. And the Constitutional Court, disappeared. Or hear about continuing education in public administrations, scholarships and aid for university and medium-level studies, enabling accommodation places, railways, additional third of the State, etc. And the Constitutional Court, disappeared. And you want us to adapt to the suspension of the Constitutional Court? I could tell them we'll do it when the Spanish government completes the sentences of the court. But that would be like waiting for Cristiano Ronaldo to meet a criminal with a step at the side because he's making the goal of another company, as he does in Messi. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, the government will continue to do the same external action as it has done now and in the same format, as it did at the beginning. Because we, gentlemen of the PP, are walking. The poet has already said: « Let us walk so that we can be. And today we're already walking on foot and speeding Kilian Jornet to be a country and a normal state in the world as soon as possible. And while you have myopia politics wrapped them up with the name of things and the paranoia of the Catalan embassies and the conspiracy to end the unit of Spain. And we won't untangle them in this pocket, because that's what you have in store for, like wandering around the outer side of the country, which your Minister Margallo would say. It is obvious that we cannot vote for his wife for all this. But let me finish telling Mr. García Albiol: Mr. García Albiol, you have a lot of heart to come here and threaten us as if you were the spokesman or the executioner arm of the Constitutional Court; but now, as before, here you will find us, here we are, as a man alone, as a woman alone, as a people alone. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.125.0	Call it a vote. Mr Albiol, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.126.0	Yes; Madam President, for clear allusions, I would like to have the right to reply...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.127.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.128.0	...and have the option of exhausting the maximum time allowed by the Rules.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.129.0	Okay. You're 30 seconds old.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.130.0	Madam President, with all due respect, the maximum time allowed by the Rules is not thirty_seconds, it is three minutes. Therefore, I would ask you to agree with the Rules if you do not grant this option. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Article 85 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.131.0	I'll give you a minute, Mr. Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.132.0	No, but it is not here that we are like in a market: « Thirty; the others, « three... [[Rialles.]] Parliament allows, the Rules allow three minutes; it seems to me that the debate has been rather intense, Madam President, because you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.133.0	I'm sorry, Mr. Albiol, it's true. Parliament allows a maximum time of three minutes, but this is on the criteria of the presidency, and I donate one. [[Voice remorse and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.134.0	All right, then. So, aniria starting very quickly, donated the generosity of the president. To say that here we have not come to judge the Constitutional Court, does not touch. Here what matters is to respect the state of law and adapt to a resolution that, whether we like it or not, has a judicial body, and that normally in a state of law, therefore is used to accepting resolutions, that, more than you like, that you benefit or not, will be accepted, as we have always done before the People's Party. I can't answer, obviously, in thirty seconds that remain, all the questions that have been raised, but I do allow me, especially the Socialist Party... I am very surprised by the intervention of the Socialist Party, because, clearly, it is said that they do not understand, for example, the second point, that as we have added this second point, therefore, I think they do not understand what is happening to reality, and above all the action of the Government of Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, let's see if they understand once and for all that these lords – these lords–, those who are not independent or separatist, are happy with us. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Do not allow, with your attitude, with your abstention [[applause]] , with his willingness to pose...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.135.0	Mr Albiol, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.136.0	...always at the expense of accepting certain behaviors.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.137.0	Mr. Millo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.138.0	Thank you, President. I would like to ask the Bureau to proceed to the reading, before voting, of the number one point of this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.139.0	All right, Mr. Millo. [[Pause.]] Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.140.0	Yes – I'm sorry – to ask for a separate vote from points 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.141.0	Then the vice president will read Point 1, which Mr. Millo has asked us to read. And then we proceed to the separate vote on point 1, point 2, and after the rest of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.142.0	« The Parliament of Catalonia urges the Government of the Generality to: 1. Adapt the competencies attributed to the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, now the Department of Foreign Affairs and Institutional Relations and Transparency, to the suspension agreed for the Constitutional Court in its ruling of 16 February 2016.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.143.0	We shall now proceed to the vote. And we'll vote for point 1. The vote begins. It was rejected by 35 votes to 81, with 16 abstentions. Now we're voting point two. The vote begins. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa... stop the vote, it's for the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.144.0	To ask for an explanation of..., to give an explanation of vote. [[Widow's remorse.]] To..., yes, it may..., to give explanation of vote for number 2, which we shall now put to the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.145.0	Yeah, yeah. Tea... can ask. Yes, the Rules allow it. So we give them 30 seconds. Explain the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.146.0	Okay, thanks. No, at this point we are going to abstain, since we understand that the person who is responsible for deciding whether to abolish or not, or whether to suspend or not, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs is the Constitutional Court, and since there is at present an appeal before the Constitutional Court, we believe that it is not parliamentary to rule on this issue. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-17-1202.147.0	Okay. Let's start voting point number two. It was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 98 against and 23 abstentions. The session's up.
