ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to everyone. There's the inquiry. Let's wait a couple of minutes for the counselor to arrive, because I guess Mr. Rodriguez doesn't have to start if there's no counselor. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Does Mrs. Escarp say we start? [[Long break.]] [[Question to the Government on health equipment planning]] [[300-00093/11]] Question to the Government on the planning of sanitary equipment, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Lord Santi Rodriguez. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We've been told it's up. Begin. Otherwise, we're having a very bad time. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] We can't change it because there's no Constellera Bassa..., there's..., then. [[Pause.]] Let us know that he enters the park..., of the Ciutadella, not his home park... [[Pause.]] Mr. Rodriguez, it seems that already... [[Voice remorse and some applause.]] Counselor, I guess I already knew it was 9:00. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Rodriguez, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.2.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that sometimes talking about sanitation with the Health Counselor may seem like a monologue, but I prefer that it was not a reality and that this monologue would start an inquiry without the Health Counselor. You compared to Parliament when you were appointed to present your government program, and the main feature of that government program was the plans. Specifically, he announced a total of dissette plans, between plans and plans to be reformed. But the problem with the plans he does is that he doesn't complete them, and the problem with the plans he's already made is that he doesn't complete them either. And in this sense, I can give you two examples: the integral plan of the best of waiting lists, which presented its government and which sleeps in the cove of the righteous, or health planning and health map, approved a few years ago, which is not complete either. At this point, the most important problem facing the public health system, counselor, and I think you must agree with me, is saturation. More or less intense, according to the territories, but it is the main problem that the system suffers. Emergency, primary, specialized attention, diagnostic tests and interventions. And today we find that there is no measure that you have gone precisely to try to solve this problem, and therefore to try to correct this situation of saturation of public sanitation. On the contrary – on the contrary. On the contrary, some of the decisions they make are to saturate the public health system even more. And what's the reason that brings us to this situation? So, look, we've commented on it some other time, but I think that today there are still more elements to say: the actions of the Health Department are ideologically oriented and are not oriented to people, to patients, who are the true sufferers of the public health system. The situation. We're going to Vallès, as you can imagine. In Vallès we have three reference hospitals, Parc Tauli, Consorci and Mutua de Terrassa, which you yourself recognize are saturated. What about health planning, health planning two years ago? So you tell us that in Vallès there are two basic hospitals, located in Rubí, with the name Vicenç Ferrer, which must give service to Rubí, Castellbisbal and Sant Cugat, and a_second basic hospital in Cerdanyola del Vallès, Ernest Lluch, which must give service to Montcada, Ripollet and Barberà. And it is in this brand that the advisor to Catalonia says: « We want to buy the General Hospital of Catalonia for 50_million euros. Narcotics – narcotics. What is planning for? What is territorial consensus for? And the consequence: uncertainty, uncertainty for everyone. First, for the same patients; second, for the workers of the General Hospital of Catalonia, whom I take advantage to greet, that they accompany us today a representation; then, for the joints, that they are the ones that..., you say: "It is that they have come to see me to ask for the hospitals and I have told them that I have no resources, and they know that, wow! , 50_million for the General Hospital, yes, but there are no resources for the hospital of Rubí, there are no resources for the hospital of Cerdanyola. With one thing we agree, counselor. This, that of the possible purchase of the General Hospital of Catalonia, is a proposal that must be the result of a delicate negotiation. We agree. And, therefore, what cannot be is that everyone has the feeling today, not to mention the certainty: that it is an improvisation. You may say no, but this is the feeling that we all have right now. We must agree that a negotiation of these characteristics, even more delicate, must be done with discretion. But, of course, discretion does not mean going to a media outlet and publicly announcing it in the four winds. But discretion is not to make a purchase offer without the fact that what you have to sell has become known. I'm sure there's a medium term, but from this offer they start asking questions, counselor. What exactly do you mean when you say: "If the company does not want to sell, will there be much harm? Because I want to think that you wanted to say something, that it wasn't a pressure measure for anyone, but you wanted to say something. Who will be the harmed? The patients? The workers? The company? He goes on to say: "If we buy it, it will benefit the three reference hospitals. Well, therefore, if you don't understand it and do other measures, three referral hospitals will continue to suffer from the saturation they already suffer or the saturation that will be achieved if you complete your ideological and dogma-based plans to remove the provision of private health services from the General Hospital to the public referral centres. Narcotics, counselor. There's no money for our hospitals in Rubí and Cerdanyola. And, look, until here I could hear, and I think even all the mayors understand it, that in a situation and in an economic resource limitation framework the Health Advisor prioritizes the provision of technological resources or human resources before the totxo. That's what we can hear. But, of course, what we do not understand is that there is no money to improve the endowments of the Tauli and the Consortium of Terrassa Mutual..., there is no money to return the pay to the workers of the Tauli ; but, in change, there are 50_millions to buy the General Hospital of Catalonia. We keep the surprise, the generalised stupefaction, counselor– generalized. But then again, in this interview you continue to say: "I adjust some expenses, I make some efficiency in the system and here are: 50_million! , which is not fifty_persons, 50_million euros, counselor. Listen to me, if adjusting expenses and making efficiencies you are able to raise 50_million euros, I don't expect to know if you can or can't buy the General Hospital of Catalonia, do it – do it – and apply these resources to what I told you, listen to me: to build the hospitals of Rubí or Cerdanyola, to improve the endowments of the Tauli, of the Consortium of Terrassa Mutual, to make the extra pay to the workers of the Tauli who are waiting. Do the efficiency and allocate the resources to the public health system. And that's what I'm asking you to do from the patient's point of view, from the point of view of general interest, from the point of view of public health, from the public health point of view, from the public health point of view, we think that it should be a priority for the department is not ideology, it's to provide public health with the necessary resources to be able to provide a good service to patients thinking about public service, thinking about patients. Adjustments later, once this reversal has been made, once this provision of public services has been made, then, obviously, adjusts the provision of private health services to the saturation points that the public service may have. But this is the way to try to work as the main orientation of the public service, as the main orientation of public health, as the main orientation of the patient. Counselor, make an effort, let go of ideology, think of the people, think of the patients, think of the workers of public hospitals, but also of the private hospitals, that there are many, too – that there are many – and think of all those people who are pending on what you say and, above all, on what the Government Health Counselor of the Generality does. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.3.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. There's a word from Mr. Antoni Comín, Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.4.0	Thank you, Madam President. My honourable Member, I would like to thank him for his inquiry, so he gives us the opportunity to clarify, even better than I have been able to do so until now, some questions relating to the purchase operation of the General Hospital of Catalonia. Therefore, go in for a thank you, but also understand that you begin to deny some of the statements you have made, because it is my obligation to deny what you have said that is not true. When you say things that are certainly not the duty of the Councillor of Salvation, it is to deny them, and you know perfectly well that the plans announced by the Councillor, to the band that are plans that we plan to execute, complement and present at the length of the conjunction of the legislature, are completed one by one. You know perfectly well that the Pla de migliora of the waiting lists has been explained from the first minute that it is only difficult in term if there was a new assumption in 2016 and we said from the first minute, honourable Member, that we would not pull it forward if there was a presuppositional extension, and the changes to the health map that we explained in my initial appearance are technical changes that, in any case, are complete. And precisely the purchase operation of the General Hospital what it does, somehow, is to complete the map of the specialized attention. Therefore, you also have to see the health map. Beyond that, let's start with ideology, Mr. Congressman. To you it seems ideological that before the need to provide health care services we analyze, of the different options, which is the cheapest; we analyze, of the different options, which is the highest quality, and we decide to stay – we decide to stay – with the most efficient and highest quality provider? Or among providers of equal quality do we decide to stay with the most efficient? Does that sound ideological to you? Does it seem ideological to you that a person, when buying a product, between two options of equal quality is the cheapest? Because if this is ideological, all societies today are ideological, because this is what indicates the common sense, that with scarcity of resources – and that goes both for the domestic family economy, and for the public economy – that with a situation of scarcity of resources, that it is structural, to any family or to any government, the obligation of good governance and the obligation of an efficient administration is to remain that least costly option. That's why we do a cost analysis when we have different options ahead of us, and if the same thing is needed, we can do the Tauli Park for less money than the Vallès Clinic, actually that one is going to charge it to the Tauli Park, because what we won't do is to draw people's money. If I don't throw people's money away, if I don't waste it, if I don't misuse everyone's resources, which I'm administering, it's said ideology, actually, there's an ideological advisor in front. It would be irresponsible, it seems to me that it would spoil the prevarication by taking an option that we know, after doing the cost analysis, that is less efficient and more expensive. This is the government's ideology: effectively managing everyone's resources. What may be ideological is to want private companies to see public assumptions when they don't touch them; that is ideological. But do you know what ideology it is? Evil liberalism, because good liberalism has said, from its foundation, that private companies are efficient in a market environment, and that private companies are to win the bottles competing in a free market, with free competition. I don't know any liberals who have ever said that private companies have to live off public premises. I have never seen any liberals say that under public pressure we have to rescue banks and we have to rescue private businesses, whether from the health sector or from the sector that follows. That's ideology, but not liberal, huh? ; it's an ideology the name of which I prefer to get away from. So, let's go to the General's case. He said something to you that I could... that the premises share, and it's that today, hospitals in the West Valley are also serving as a referral hospital and a basic general hospital. This is as if a university is also doing university and baccalaureate, and you will understand that a university, a building, a few teachers, some classes that have been organized to do university, if more have to do baccalaureate classes because in that region there are no institutes, they have a much more complicated life, and therefore, for that university, setting up institutes at the expense of passing all baccalaureate classes is good news. And we know very well that the West Valley needs a basic general hospital that will discharge the Tauli, the Mutual, the Terrassa Hospital of low complexity activity that today does not touch them, but that they are doing it because if they don't do it they can't do anyone. And proximity is an important criterion of our health care system, and if the hospitals that people have there are these are the basic general hospital activities they have done. Therefore, from the outset, these hospitals benefit from the operation of the General because it will allow them to specialize in the activity that corresponds to them. Here, I believe that with this we agreed, that we need a hospital, and I believe that it is almost the only agreement of his intervention, that we need a basic general hospital in the West Valley. The price. The price I have always said is not the central issue of this operation, because the price has a certain objectivity; underlining it is "certain, because in the end it is always subject to a negotiation between the parties, but there are some experts, there are some audits that indicate who is the price close to a sanitary equipment. We have always said that if it is possible to make the purchase we will have to base, the shares, we will have to agree who to make this analysis, this expertise, this audit and, from here, make the final negotiation. Therefore, the priest, the one who touches, the one who follows, the one who is the correspondent. To us, with the clues we have today of the value of this sanitary equipment, it seems to us that the price would be around the ceiling I said. But until the auditors come in, they can look at all the details – which they won't do today, because that's only if they want to buy for both parts – and they can do the detailed analysis of the equipment, we don't know the exact price. Therefore, the price is not a central issue of this debate. Territorial consensus. Listen: territorial consensus, everything. And that's why last week I made a long meeting with the mayor of Rubí and his team; that's why last week I made a long meeting with the mayor of Cerdanyola and with the mayor of Ripollet, and that's why I'm going to make a meeting with the mayor of Sant Cugat; so, actually. But let's not get into it because I don't decide where to put the places of either Rubí, Sant Cugat, Cerdanyola, or Ripollet, and they understand that, because they have told me personally these mayors, and so they understand that the competence to organize the specialized service in Catalonia is mine. Therefore, I have the obligation to make decisions in this area; I have the obligation to try to ensure that there is a good specialized assistance for the assembly of the people of Catalonia. And it's not a decision that I have to delegate to mayors who don't have this competence, just as they don't have to delegate to me the decision of the urban planning of their municipality. I understand that there are institutions that have each of their competences and that the consensus does not mean that they delegate responsibilities that are one's own? Do you understand that, you? I have my doubts that I understand. And the same, with the unions. Listen, I'm in constant contact with the unions. Moreover, the teachers' union has made a public position in favour of this operation. The teachers' union has made two public positions in favour of this operation, and the UGT has made a public position in favour of this operation, and I am also conversing with the National Directorate of Workers' Commissions on this operation; constant and permanent. There's no resources. That's why we do it, Mr. Congressman, because since there's not all the resources we know, the planners, that it's a lot less expensive for the public to buy the General Hospital and turn it into the basic general hospital that the West Valley needs, a purchase reversal is a lot less expensive than a construction reversal of two new hospitals. That's why we do it, to save people money, to solve the need we have in the most efficient and cheap way possible; and maintaining quality. Improvisation. Listen, I, the consulting negotiation strategies, I'll explain them to you up to a point. Therefore, I do not explain to you in what sense it was opportune or not opportune; I already tell you that it was very opportune, so that the negotiation culminates successfully, explain to the public that this operation was on the march. But I can explain one thing to you: when the Mayor of Sant Cugat publicly says that the Councillor of Salut has already spoken to him about this option, you will understand that, if it is the same Mayor of Sant Cugat that explains it, the Department of Salut has been working on this option that is said to buy the General Hospital. And that's not improvisation, that's planning. Statements by the Mayor of Sant Cugat, who has publicly acknowledged that I have already explained this to him, have not been made by me. And, for what it does to the need for the other side to be on the case, finally – finally – everyone has accepted what the government's transparency web says, which is that the other side knew perfectly well the government's willingness to buy this hospital because it held the meeting with the direction of Quironsalud on October 10, which is on the government's transparency web on the agenda of the director of the Catalan Health Service, at that meeting they made the offer. And so, after denying, for our astonishment...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.5.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.6.0	Okay. Then I'll finish explaining this last extreme. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.7.0	Thank you, Counselor. The word has Mr. Santi Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.8.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, let's see, you start saying: « The complete purchase of the hospital completes the map of healthcare, right? And I haven't seen this for a while, have I? I brought here the health map of Catalonia, and what you say is, so, for example, to the area... – I don't know what Vallès is – to the west, right? : "Deploy a hospital device to the area of Rubí and Sant Cugat with the corresponding internal distribution, blah, blah, blah. I in the East West Valley said: "The construction of a basic general hospital in Cerdanyola, Ripollet, Montcada. Therefore, what health planning says is not that there is a need for a basic hospital in the Vallès area; what says hospital planning is that there are two basic hospitals in the Vallès area. First question. Second question. The hospitals of Sabadell and Terrassa at this time are a fan of reference and a fan of basics. Therefore, they recognize that there is a saturation of these hospitals. Therefore, if there is saturation and there are no resources to build the basic hospitals that are needed, it is justifiable to seek the provision of the services that are needed in those other spaces where this service can be produced. And allow'muna another reflection, let's say, now yes, ideological. You are the councillor of Salut, you have to age for a public good, which is the public salvation of the city council of Catalonia, and to guarantee this public good you have two tools: the own tools of the department, which is public sanitation, but also has another thing, which is private sanitation, which can contribute and contribute to the public good, which is the salvation of the city council of Catalonia. I am not saying to him: "Without public health and going to private health, I am saying to him: "You have public health, and where you do not arrive to give services to the citizen, to give services to the patients, take advantage of the resources that they have, that they are private. And you gave me an example, he said: "It's more economical to take patients to Tauli Park than to the Vallès Clinic. Listen to me, I go to the portal of transparency and look« Rates, CatSalut : high medical, to Tauli Park, 2,367_euros; to the Clinic of Vallès, 1,669_euros. Where are we going, Counselor? Urgency: Tauli Park, 104 with 29 centimes; Vallès Clinic, 53 with 22. And if we repeat the same operation with the General Hospital, it will see that the provision of services in these hospitals is more economical than the provision of services in public hospitals. But that's not the problem, Counselor. The problem is that if you, the resources allocated to the Vallès Clinic or to the private provision, are now allocated to the public provision, they will be insufficient to care for all the patients who were cared for in these other hospitals. Therefore, more resources must be allocated. And if they have no problem, do it. But the problem is that they don't have them and make decisions that they do are affecting people – affecting people. You say to me, "Listen to me, I don't know whether it's ideological or not. We have made an assessment... Well, listen, you announce the deprivatization of the Clinic of Vallès and of the General Hospital of Catalonia, you announce the month of February, in the first appearance in Parliament. What assessments had been made? You did a_me that was in the council. What cost assessments did you make? Keep in mind another thing: when you say we buy the General Hospital of Catalonia for 50_millions, you're buying 50_millions of totxo– of totxo! This does not suppose to buy the services; that after they have to lend, the services. And that seems like you don't count on it. But, anyway, we'll ask you for information on all these assessments that you say you've made. It's not a question of liberalism or not liberalism, counselor. It's a question of public service, it's a question of serving the citizens as they expect to be treated, to public health, with public resources. And, if public sanitation does not have the capacity to meet the needs of the citizens, we use the resources we have in the abst, whether they are private or not. But..., I quickly finish with two, three questions [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out]] ; two questions, President, with his benevolence. I have no answer as to who is harmed if the purchase operation is not due to the end – first question. According to the question: at this hour – at least to me – we do not know that the department has made any serious offer for the purchase of this hospital; it is more, I can tell you and you must know that the department has been promised that the week that they will see them, this is the information that we have. I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.9.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.10.0	I'm done, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.11.0	He's run out of time, a lot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.12.0	I'll be right there. You were talking about territorial consensus. Counselor, who started talking about territorial consensuses was you in your initial appearance, who had to recover the initial consensuses. You didn't do it – you didn't do it – with this operation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.13.0	Congressman, I'm having a hard time, huh? ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.14.0	....the head exercises to improve...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.15.0	...but we'll have to wake them up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.16.0	.... territorial consensus. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.17.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.18.0	Thank you, Madam President. I'll give you almost full-time answers, so you have time to answer it all with the five minutes you have at your disposal. First, planning provides for two hospitals, yes, basic. Yes, Cerdanyola and Rubí. Yes, forty_thousand_metres, Cerdanyola; approximately forty_thousand_metres, Rubí. The General has more than eighty, a little more than eighty; therefore, the General resolves the needs that we want to resolve with two new hospitals, with the circumstance that Sant Cugat is intermig – look at the map – of Cerdanyola and Rubí. Therefore, it is the third time that, before it is planned in these two hospitals, the Department of Salvation has tried to buy the General, because everyone has learned in the Department of Salvation, my predecessors, that, between having to make a hospital to the band and band of Sant Cugat, a hospital to each band of Sant Cugat, or being able to buy the General, the good option is to buy the General. First question. Second question. Mr Rodriguez, there are confusions that journalists in some cases commit, and I have tried to clarify it, some journalists, on time, and that the majority do not commit, but that no deputy should cometre, no one. It can't be that at these movie heights, with the expert you have on the health issues, you continue to confound fare and cost; it can't be, Mr. Rodriguez. It cannot be that we misinformed the citizens, because you will understand that the rate of a hospital is unique, there is a single rate for the Tauli! , which is the indicator of the average complexity of that hospital. But Taulis has a lot of procedures. Do you hear that Tauli does colon cancer operations and cataracts? And do you hear that everyone understands that the cost of a cataract is different from the cost of a colon cancer operation? So, please, I don't make this rookie mistake, I'm asking. We're talking about comparing process costs, and the same procedure at the Vallès Clinic was more because at Tauli, and the same procedure at the Terrassa Hospital was more cheap than at the Vallès Clinic. Don't confound me! Hospitals have a lot of... – I am addressing you, Mr. MP – hospitals have a lot of different procedures, everyone knows, and a fee. Therefore, we are not comparing tariffs, we are comparing the cost of a concrete procedure in one place and the other, because the analysis of costs must be done on the basis of the activity that is transferred, and we are analysing that activity, those procedures, which would cost in one place and what would cost in another. And do you know what's going on? That the analysis didn't do it, the hospital directors did it, and it's stuck to its transparency web. I'm not confused again, please, that it's too hard, this confusion. More. You tell me: "You don't have the money. Partly I don't have the money, and that's why we made an agreement with Economy that, if it's finally possible to make the purchase, I won't take it, I'll make efficiencies for 50_millions the year you see, I won't do how many things and I'll put 50_millions to buy the General Hospital. What we do is a financing mechanism that allows me to execute the purchase at the moment it convinces, and after the Department of Health will already return it to the Department of Economy these moneys. That's why Economy, on the same day as my announcement, explained that the hospital's funding project is due years ago, to 5_millions annually that finances Economy, so that at the end of the day Economy doesn't have to put money, I pay all Salut, but I pay it in an assumable way for the Health Department's premise. Therefore, we do not have to make an efficiency of 50_million euros in a single exercise; this is not the question. I thank him for asking me, so I can clarify this. Two questions to finish. Who's the losers? Let me hide backwards: who are the beneficiaries? Tothom – tothom. From now on, patients in the West Valley, who tend to have the basic hospital they don't have – first. Second, referral hospitals, which could specialize in the function of referral hospital correspondents. Third, the workers, who would go from being on the private agreement to being public, where you know that wages are better. All patients, workers and hospitals that already exist today, everyone. And that's why we don't want to miss this opportunity. And that's why, as much as the department's overstretched resources, before the possibility of doing this operation, we'd try to take advantage of it. Finally, you tell me: "Why if the hospitals of Cerdanyola, Sabadell and Terrassa are saturated you will bring them new activity coming from the General, from the Clinic of Vallès, who will still saturated them more? Another one got confused that wouldn't have to cometre. The activity that you are doing at the General Hospital is your own reference hospital activity: hemodynamics, radiotherapy... This activity today can be done by the region's referral hospitals, because there are bunkers available at Terrassa for radiotherapy, because there is the hemodynamic service at the Terrassa Mutual, which can absorb more activity. The activity that the Terrassa and Sabadell hospitals are doing today is basic general activity, this surplus, and in change, the reference activity, this missing. And what we want to do is to straighten it out and that the reference activity that they make to the General is to move on to the Mutual and the Terrassa Consortium, which lacks them – radiotherapy and hemodynamics – and on the other hand, which can be pulled out of the activity that is left of them, which is the activity of the basic hospital. And that's why we need to stop contracting what we are contracting for today at the General Hospital, which is complementary activity of medium-complexity referral hospital and, in turn, buy it to be able to do the activity that we can't do today, which is the activity of basic general hospital. What do you mean, Congressman?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.19.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.20.0	Hey, what's up? Study well before you do the interrogations, that we advance much further. [[Widow's remorse.]] Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.21.0	Mr. Millo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.22.0	Very briefly, Madam President, for a point of order. I already did it for another reason. I ask you, President, that you also ask the members of the Government to observe a minimal education and respect in their dealings with the Members of the Opposition. It's the least you can ask a councilman: that he doesn't come here to offend the deputies and that he treats and acts with respect and with education, because some who need to come here before it is a run of ways before they become members of this government, huh? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.23.0	The new point of the order of the day... [[Salut's advisor asks to speak.]] Ah! Yeah. I've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.24.0	Mr Millo, I propose to you that I review the session log once you have written down my intervention and then fill in all the interventions you have made since you were a Member – that you are certainly a long time ago in this Parliament – and that this intervention appears to have just been made by me, word for word, a copy is written, and the interventions you or Mr Santi Rodríguez or any member of the Government since the 80's, and I am told what the inappropriate parliamentary uses have been in the intervention I made. But first you read it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.25.0	The new point... [[Josep Enric Millo and Rocher ask to speak.]] Mr. Millo, you look like you already are, huh? I mean, you did it, he did it, and he's already there, huh? I guess so. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Forgive me – forgive me – the government always has the word. [[Widow's remorse.]] He can always use the word, because he has res... listen, the government has responsed him to his relief. If you answer him now, the government will ask me again... and this will be endless. I still know it's hard. The new point of the order of the day is: inquiry... [[The remorse of the voice persists. Josep Enric Millor and Rocher intervened without using the microphone.]] All right, then. He asked for the word for allusions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you, Mr. Millo, for your intervention. Let's keep the order of the day. [[Josep Enric Millo and Rocher continue to speak without using the microphone.]] Mr. Millo, please... [[Widow's remorse.]] Thank you, Mr. Millo. Thank you, we'll take it into account. Please, let's continue with the order of the day. [[Question to the Government about residential and day centre places]] [[300-00094/11]] The new item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on residential and day-care places, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. There's a word from Mr. Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.26.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Consellera Bassa, deputies, deputies, the motive of this inquiry is to bring to Parliament the situation of the residential places of Catalonia, both of residence and of day center. I can't say that we haven't talked about this, because we haven't talked about this on various occasions in Parliament. In fact, there have been motions for resolutions and motions approved for this House that contain the situation of collapsing and maturing the combination of residential services in our country. Madam Counselor, I want to teach you this chest. [[The orator shows a chest to the chamber.]] It is the chest of the platform SOS Gent Gran, of Santa Coloma de Gramenet, that approximately fifteen days ago came to this Parliament to claim the inn in the march of the day center and the increase of the residential places to the city. Says to set aside the day center, because the day center is done, but has never been equipped. It is a city of 117,000 inhabitants without public day center. And the port to show the recovery of my parliamentary group not only to this platform, but also to the combination of demands from citizens and citizens organized, mobilized, often also with the collection of their gatherings, demanding urgent measures that put the long waiting lists and the inability to access the residential resources recognized for the law and for the portfolio of social services. The case of Santa Coloma de Gramenet is also the case of Batea, where the government again fails to reach agreement for the Parliament to conclude more places of residence. It is the case of Terrassa, where the Association of Veíns de Sant Pere Nord and the same together claim also the construction of a residence and day center from more than two years ago. Or it could be the case of the Platform of Entities for the Residence of the Southern Sector of Sabadell, which will come this late to this Parliament, which demand the construction of the residence that will be promised by the Government in 2011. It could be the case of Lleida or the Aran, with very similar claims. These are just six examples of so many other situations that exist in Catalonia, situations that alert us to the risk of the future, that force us to start a debate on residential resources for the great people of Catalonia address some aspects that I consider to be fundamental. According to the demographic projections of the Idescat, Catalonia is at the door of initiating its negative demographic growth. For the first time in history there will be more malfunctions than births. By the year 2026 the population of Catalonia will be more aged, the population's conjunction will be reduced by 23,000 people compared to the present, with differences according to the age trams. Thus, the larger population of sixty-five years will increase by 330,000 people. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not talking about a future. I'm talking about a scener who'll be giving it from here to just nine years. And to us, as to Parliament, and to you, Madam Councillor, as the highest official in charge of the Government of the Generality, it is up to us to make a good analysis, lay down the appropriate measures and make them. It is necessary to avoid the absolute collapse of the residential system for the large people, as one of the various aspects that influence and influence the welfare of the city council and citizens over sixty-five years old today and tomorrow. And how can we cope with this situation? The starting point isn't annoying. In Catalonia we have 1,127 residential centers with capacity to serve 58,430 people. Only 51,688. Therefore, there are 6,742 places of residence and empty day centre. It's published data for your own department, ma'am. Therefore, the appeal exists, but it is not used. And still today we don't know exactly how long to wait to access a residence. Well, the government doesn't know. The city council knows this: between two and four years, depending on where they live, depending on the residence they want to enter. There are people who die waiting for a place of residence. If this is not enough, I will remind you that the degree of occupancy of day places is 77_per_cent. I mean, one of every four is empty. To this panorama we add the restrictions in the services linked to residence, detailed for the Government in 2014 and only partially recovered during the year 2015. Ninety-thousand people on the waiting list to get a benefit from the Dependency Law, which with the current management rate of these ratings we would need more than two years to leave this waiting list to zero. A situation that requires less announcements and more concrete action on the part of the Government. In fact, at the end of the week there have been some developments that I would like, Madam Councillor, to clarify in your reply. I explain: in the middle of October staff of the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families came into contact with some employers, not all of them, to find out which co-workers' residences had private places. The objective is to know how many private places can become collaborators. In addition, they requested this information with great zeal. Some of these employers ran to ask their residents for this information, since they had understood that the intention of the Generality was to use an economic Romanesque assumption to convert private places into collaborations. The unconsulted employers, when they knew this situation, understood that there was a certain discretion on the part of the Generality, since the offer was for some employers and for others not. The government ran to publish a statement saying that they only wanted to know how many private places could be co-workers, but only as information, not because there was a clear intention to do so, but only as an internal working mechanism. That's where I could hear, then, that it's been a bad thing. But days after their department officials continued to call some residents to know not only the availability of private places that can be co-workers, but also the predisposition of those responsible if they bring it to term. And I think it's a good time, Mrs. Bassa, because you are telling us how to cope with the necessary increase in residential places and day centres in Catalonia. Do you or do you not want to turn private places into collaborations? We, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, believe that in the current situation it is more appropriate to set three lines to this respect: first, to prioritise the inn of public places of residence which are still closed; two, to prioritise the services linked to residence as a mechanism to reduce much of the 6,742 empty places at these times, and, third, to bring to a conclusion a plan to reduce the current lists of waiting to access a residence, just as this Parliament approved the proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the general policy debate. We believe that it is essential, Madam Counselor, that the plan of shoc that gives answer to how and in what way the Government will set aside public residence places. For us, it's fundamental, because we bet for public service as the most reliable and economical option for the city and citizen community of our country. Even so, it is necessary, before the situation in which we find ourselves, that public-private collaboration works, at the level of government investment in public equipment, and, bearing in mind that the population will continue to grow, only with this good collaboration will we give response to the current and future need. And we don't trust the government to put up for residential public places, among other things, because so far it hasn't done so. We consider that turning private places into partnerships is not the best way to solve the problem. And, in any case, he will advise, if he does, what is the criteria for collaborating in one residence and the others, right? Demogrative criteria? How old are you? Waiting list? As is the case, both for the concertation and for the collaboration of residential places, his Government must set aside a transparent and just mechanism, which prevents discretion in time to increase the number of places in certain territories. Madam will advise, if this is your intention, let my group recommend that you allocate all these resources to recover and increase the benefits linked to residence. Over the past few years, they have stopped giving more than three thousand of these benefits. Only by recovering the levels prior to your government's entry we can give an answer to the half of empty seats currently. Betting for linked services and not for collaborative places, on the same assumption, will benefit more people, because they may have more freedom at the time of sorting the center where they want to go, because the cost of a collaborative place is higher than the cost of a service linked to residence, because it also allows them to occupy seats currently free, because it allows them to enjoy a linked service while the person expects them to free a public place and because with this system all residents can benefit, and not only the large ones, and managers more will charge per day, without having to wait one year to collect the collaborations. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, let's wait for the shock plan that we all approved in this Parliament to reduce the waiting lists. Have you started working there? Who are the master lines? What are we going to say to the citizens who now have to wait until four years to enter a public residence? What alternative does it give you so you don't have to pay between 1,400 and 2,500 euros for the month that costs our country a private place of residence? Madam Counselor, eleven months ago the Puigdemont government and we don't know what they're going to do about it. How does the set of agreed terms lead to commissions and the plethora of June of encanny? What's the degree of compliment? I think it's time to put yourself down, to know the direction you want to make with regard to this subject and to know if it does the dues that democraticly, the fruit of debate and respect for this institution..., among all of us we have decided that it is the necessary and good for the city and citizen assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.27.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply to the Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families, Mrs. Pain Bassa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.28.0	Thank you, President; thank you, Member. The truth is, most of the things he said I can't deny him the king, you're right about all of them. Therefore, I will not start saying: "It is not true that there are indeed residences..., and you have said it, or people who claim from Santa Coloma de Gramenet, Batea, Terrassa, the southern sector of Sabadell, that many and many years ago they ask..., to Lleida, exact..., nor the residential resources that would be needed..., nor will I start changing the aspect that you have made of which is the progress that will demograte to Catalonia, because all of us are very conscious. So, until here we agree on everything. I'll kill some of the things he said. For example, you said we have 1,127 residential centers. I can tell you that at this point there are 1,150 already. So there's more of them. I will kill what you say, which is a ‘mantra, or something that has remained in some people..., which you intended to say that the time to enter a residence is two to four years. I'll kill this clearly, and I'll give you very clear examples, and I'll take them, because that's not real. Each residence is different, depending on where it will be. And I can tell him about concrete places, and I haven't looked for more or less, to give him data. I've got them all, but I can't say from the High Ribagorça, which you can say to me: "Well, it's very far..., 2 people on the waiting list from September to enter the Pont de Suert residence. And you said: "This is very far away. I can tell you: at the Lower Camp, 1 person on the waiting list to Reus. Baix Llobregat, 13 people on the waiting list at the residence Sant Martí. It's true that there are waiting lists, but they're not for two or four years. In Barcelona, 12 people to the residence La Pau, 9 people to the residence of Medinaceli, 5 people to the one of Carme, 6 people to the one of Catalunya I. Girona, which is one of the places where there are most people on the waiting lists, the first people there on the waiting list are from April 2016. Pla de l'Estany, 120 people. Gironès, 157. So, saying there's between two and four years isn't real. And maybe we leave these numbers, because they're not... the ones that have to be. But I don't think we should go into a war of numbers. What we are very clear from the department is that we have to move forward, and we have to move forward on all the issues that represent the deal with the great people. I'll talk to you about two things. For a band, what I told you, it's about residences, and then we'll get in more. But what I'm interested in talking about is the model, the social protection model we're pursuing, and what we want as a department, which, in fact, between intervention is what you clearly asked me, huh? Then I'll talk to him about what I was talking about in concrete terms, about the co-workers', concerted places, and the ENPs that are linked there, and what we want to do and why we asked, not some employers, but all employers, and all the joints, because the letter was sent to the joints, which are the places that are free for every residence..., that there is in Catalonia. For a very simple reason. You know we have a resource map, a map that's public, that's shared. Sometimes, a region is very extensive, and a residence is very close to the nearest population, to the most active population, to the population we would need from the age of sixty-five. And so this map we have to do again, not entirely, but narrow it down more, and narrow it down by population and narrow it down to areas where there are more large people growing up. And that's what we do, but we don't want to do it without knowing exactly what we have left. So I can tell you that, for example, we work on an interactive map where you see clearly who are the most resident areas, but not just residents, but more resources, more resources than anything else, because this is the model we want as a department. So, it's the model that we've agreed to for the Yes and it's the model that we want to bring forward to government. We have an obligation to help all people and to offer tools. Therefore, we want to stop talking about residential centres and rather, we want to stop talking about day and day centres, because what we want to do is an integration of what people need; what we would say about looking for the state of well-being, looking for the state of well-being, that each one can choose that the future law of Catalan personal autonomy that we have before us allows us to make a fairer society and allows us, above all, to give assistance to people who at these times suffer. We all know that our addiction law aspires to be better than the other. I've said it many times here. When you read the Law of Dependency said "it's very good, but we all knew, as soon as it came out as before, as things have been, that it cannot be completed. You can't complete the way you're in the house, because you need all the economics behind you. And I will not say again that if we had approved the premise, there would be 1,500 seats, which we all know, and I will not say again the weights of the Law of Dependence on the part of the State, which, if appropriate, we will also say again; but, beyond that, I believe that this failure cannot give little to the fact that every time we come out here, exactly what we stand for. Indeed, it would have been much better not to have any shortcomings with the Law of Dependence, nor any shortcomings with the themes of social services on the part of the government of the PP of the State; it would have completely changed the picture we have now, for one thing. Second: the degree and dependence has entered, therefore, this represents that we have had to make a much greater effort to be able to assume it. And that, with which we are responsible, we have assumed. In some other place they said, we don't take it. We do, because we also think that people are entitled to grade I, and more so when they've promised a lot of time. But what is it that we need? We need to break stigmas and have a more open conception. What do I mean by that? That maybe we don't have to talk so much about personal autonomy and we have to go further than not talking about dependencies and these situations of need, which are there. We need to talk about independent life. We need to speak of empowerment, of making it possible for people to develop for themselves. In fact, this very week, the Antonio Centeno, to the Commission of Social Affairs, which many of you have participated in, he said clearly, and this is the model we want to go to: "The future Catalan law must speak of independent life. It has to be and we have to do the favor of autonomy, the ability to make it possible for all citizens to gain freedom. And this, well-becoming, which we would say, among all, means that this law that we have at our fingertips, or that we have to do, is a model for Catalan social services, where dignity is in the spotlight, where rights are guaranteed, where the work in the network and the construction of the integrated system is paramount, and where the training of professionals is also at the side of all planning and evaluation based on the knowledge that it has. Therefore, you have strong points in this social attention, because it is much better than we have now, because we do not have col·lapses in evaluations, nor col·lapses in time to look for different centers, but also different benefits; services like home care service, important so that people can maintain their autonomy and therefore can continue home. We've been, and I've said before, a reduction of 88 percent, and we're all conscious. These incompliments have to be passed on, and they have to be passed on in some way, because this would mean, as I said to the principle, that there are not a thousand people..., if we had not brought in these moneys, that were not to come from the Generality, but that they were to come from other places, there are now a thousand people who would be outside the system that we have of social protection. Therefore, the Generality makes a great effort, and we make a great effort not only with residences, but with related economic benefits and with everything that represents autonomy for people, but we can't be happy, and that's why I said – and I started my interview telling you – that I agree with what you said and with the X-ray you said. That's why we want to move forward, but we don't want to move forward from scratch. We know we have a law. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] We want it to be clear, and that's why we've started a process of knowing exactly at these times, beyond this map of resources that tells us we have to follow it, and we'll follow it, because the work done for the previous legislature is naught, knowing exactly at what points...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.29.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.30.0	...we find ourselves and what we need to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.31.0	There's a word from Mr. Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.32.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Counselor, thank you for all the intervention as well. I think we must make every effort to try to build, by talking about models, by talking about the future of dependence on our country. But as we talk about this we can do two things now, let's say, talk about the future model, but give solutions to the concrete problems of people today. And this is what people are demanding of us. That is to say, in what concrete way do we give to that person who is still on the waiting list. It's true, and I told the intervention, that waiting lists at residential centers are different depending on the city or territory. Miri, I remember when I was director of Social Benestar in Santa Coloma de Gramenet that, after all, the only way to solve that people could enter a place of residence was to take them to Esterri d'Àneu. And, of course, yes, here they can enter on the 15th day... in Esterri d'Aneu. Therefore, there is a moment, let's say, in which we have problems – we have problems – because the people who need a place of residence do not find in their geographical context a quick solution to their situation. I really like that the government is working on this interactive map, this inn... update, let's just say, which is the resource map of our country. And let's see if we all start doing something about the Catalan Autonomy Law once and for all, because it's a project that's been in jail for many years and that we're still discussing how and in what way. I agree with you – and you know that I've told you some other time – that the problem with the Law of Dependence is not the law, it's the resources. And it also coincides with the fact that if the People's Party, in Madrid, put in the resources that we would have a good law, or at least we would solve a lot of the problems that we have at these times, but that's not it. We have a financing problem of this Law of Dependency, which is instrumental in achieving the welfare of the city council, above all of the largest citizenry, but not only, because there are young and adult people in the Law of Dependency. But let's say it before too..., first, confirm two things: therefore, I understand that the government does not intend, initially, to make co-operations of private places. I understand that this is the answer to his intervention, which they have only done for a question of information, so... And if not, now you're making this clear to me, but I understand it's not like that. The second question is: will the benefits linked to residence increase in the own presuppost? And in what way? We have known, by the press – and, therefore, let's all say, prudence – that there is an beginning of agreement, a principle of agreement between the Government, between Juntes for the Yes and the UPC, for the approval of the assumptions; therefore, you will have more leads. But I also asked him, before, the degree of compliment of the agreements reached in this Parliament with regard to residential places. I'll remember some of them. There is a_me left to complete what they proposed, and that you yourselves approved the month of June, to recover the universality of the services linked to the residence, and, therefore, whether the assumption will contemplate it or not. Have they established a more agile and transparent system for the administrative management of dependent shippers, as has this Parliament been compromised? Have you already set a timetable for the occupancy of public and concerted places of residence and day centre, just as June was compromised? Why has your department not yet published to the department's website the Oriented Waiting Time, which you have given us – Oriented, because it is impossible to fix it exactly – previewed to access public places of residence and day center? It should have been published in September. As September should also have published the data on the revaluations of IAPs, so many requests for review of applications as the resulting change in the degree of dependence. When will we begin the review of the portfolio of social services, Counselor, to adapt the ration to the reality? We've approved it, too. How was the preparation of the law of the great people proposed by my parliamentary group and that you committed to keep a blank during the first half of 2017? If he's started working. And, in addition, to tell me about 'we're working on it, which I already know and understand, to see if they can make us concrete, somehow. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] What they're working on and how we're gonna do it. I will also tell you, in this remaining minute, that many times when we ask the committee, therefore, that it is a residence in a place or that a day center is set aside, you always go to territorial programming. And I asked for it, and I read it to me. [[The orator shows a document to the chamber.]] It's this... - maybe it's another one, huh? But this is what I have –, 2015-2018. I don't know if there's any later, but this is what I found on Parliament's website. And you do prioritize territories that consider them to be the most needy of residential squares. But what I am asking is whether we can make a relationship of people who need concrete resources and establish a calendar of actions, priorities, so that the assembly of any wise city, on this list, when the reversal, on the part of the Generality, in its residence. And, therefore, what he asks is that, more than talking about the model – which I like very much, very much, very much, to enjoy all folds–, we need to make concrete actions, because the people at these times are still going through it very badly and the people need, from their government, clear messages and clear solutions. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.33.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.34.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. We agree, and I've already said it, and I think I've explained it, how we're working, and how we're working is very clear, I've explained it. The map of this interaction is exactly what you ask me to do. So, there's not enough of this resource map, what we have to see is, in every city, what is needed. But I think we need to see it all together, because, then, things happen..., and now I'll set an example: I know that..., for example, the Assembly of Batea. The Assembly of Batea..., here came a resolution in which we had to accord more concerted places to the center, residence, of Batea. Batea has the number of concerted places per inhabitant taller than all Catalonia. So, listen, we're all aware, too. You see, in Batea, your mayor has gone to talk to everyone. I have to give him time to talk, but we also have to be aware of what we do. That Parliament passes a resolution that we give concerted places to the Assembly of Batea seems very good to me, but before we make the resolution, we look at all the folds that are lacking in some other people and that are the ones that have this people. And I say that because, sometimes, what they ask of the government – which is very legitimate and which is what we have to do, concrete – we may all have to do it, and not blow up for things that are impossible. Why haven't we made new concert seats? Listen, I've said it fifty thousand times, because it didn't approve a premise! If you didn't approve a presupposition, we couldn't open some new lines, there weren't resources, we couldn't. There were 1,500 seats and we had already started talking to locals and everyone else to arrange, publicly, to see where they should go and where they shouldn't go. What you asked me here we did at the social level, because I think that's what we have to do. We have a system of social services that is not only public, because if it were public..., escorted, 147 public residences, we speak clearly, and, of these 147, 17 clearly of the department or of the Generality. So, with 17 residences, we don't go anywhere. We need all the social workers. And that means, in the first place, social entities, that they don't have all the business side, but also businesses. And we need it because that's how we've set up the social service system in Catalonia; with 17 residences we can't cover the demand that's now and what's been going on for a while. Therefore, we must move forward with this model. Is it time to build public residences? I, daily, find myself with mayors who ask to build a public residence, and I always say to them: "If financing finds it for the totxo, fantasistic. The department, at these times, will not allocate a euro to all. And that's what we've said clearly, we've said for the first time. The resources there are for people. For us, it's people first. And we must help in all those fears that give autonomy. What about the waiting lists? I did, personally, call people from a waiting list. The answer was: « – No, I pointed out for another day. – No, I didn't want to go in, now, now. When we have the plaza, often the first of the waiting list does not enter, only the ones with the most delay. And that's true, because people are raising the future. So, all the numbers we have... we have to check out if we look, for now, what's going on and how it's going on. I'll go back to the one who gave it to the beginning. So, same residences... and the same one that I'm explaining residences could explain it from day centers. The theme of concerted places; our intention was to arrange places, we have not been able to for two themes: presupposition, but apart from presupposition you know that the decree of concertation, the Government of the State has challenged it, so we have remained with the bound hands. And we found ourselves with hands tied when it was the personalized attention, the integral attention, that was what we wanted to do. What do we got? Two things: to be able to make ENP or co-workers' places only in those places where there are already co-workers' places, because they cannot open new lines. Therefore, when we ask for which seats there are only free we can ask the centres for co-workers' seats. What's that supposed to mean? That if we can advance in this line all those places that can be converted into collaborators..., there are ENPs that can be allocated to other ENPs. So this is what we're studying, and I think that in short – very short – we can give... Why? Because, for us, it's a priority, and when we have all the resources allocated, if there's a little rickshaw in the department, it's going to go to those resources that we think are more deficient and where people's autonomy has to be prioritized, for our department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on agricultural, timber and forestry policies]] [[300-00095/11]] The aim of the agenda is to ask the Government about agricultural, ramadere and forestry policies presented by the Gruppo Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. To expose her, she has the word "Mrs. Hortênsia Grau".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.36.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, soon will be a year old who took possession... and, therefore, I think we already have enough elements to be able to value its management. We know that we came from a very difficult situation and we value the positive changes that have occurred in your department. For example, what is there to elect the Catalan Forest Property Center, the agreements reached with Fishing... Above all, the attitude of the department, right? , the gauntlets of listening, of coming to terms and making small adventures. But, of course, we have very big reps as the country on the subject of the agricultural model, rowing, food, and we believe that there are also shadows here, counselor. Clearly, it is very difficult, in an inquiry, in fifteen minutes, to put the big issues and, above all, that the intention is neither criticism nor wear, but the will to solve the hard problems and the challenges that we have as a country in order to achieve this: food sovereignty, territorial re-balancing, facing the changes that will entail everything we have to do before the climate change..., many issues pending and that, therefore, we will not all be able to deal with them. Miri, one: access to the earth, for example, and the protection of agricultural soil, a subject that we have been demanding for years. It is the only sectoral territorial plan that has not been developed. The general territorial plan of Catalonia was made in 1995, but the land alone was not protected. It is necessary to introduce a culture of soil, just as we introduced in its day, with the Water Framework Directive, a culture of water, it is necessary to introduce a culture of soil that protects agricultural soil, because it is a limited resource. Counselor Pelegri approved a preliminary draft of land use that we did not like, it was not our project, but, well, it gave answer to a demand that we have approved many times here. So, this... we want to know how this is going. The National Water Uses Pact, all replenishment of irrigation and construction of large Pharaohic infrastructure, taking into account climate change scenes and adaptation and mitigation measures. All the economic impacts... you know what I'm talking about, Xerta-Senia, but basically Segarra-Garrigues. Why? Because we have a problem, and here we're all responsible, everybody... we didn't do well. Nor did it do well to design the ZEPA, which some have all ZEPA and others can water, but it is the problem that we now find ourselves with is that there are no moths – the moth censuses are down – nor has there been access to the Reg. Therefore, we need to rethink all this infrastructure and see how we do the compensatory measures again. And it seems that the department is more concerned about how to avoid Brussels' fines in front of a path that is still not approved. Therefore, another theme: he managed Ramaderes disposals. Consellera, document presented the other day, the Atles de ruralitat de Catalunya. [[The speaker shows a full camera.]] I don't know if the deputies and deputies see it... the bad areas are the areas of Catalonia affected by nitrates. 2008 was these, and now it's the whole cross-section, plus some areas. We have... it's a question that concerns us, that, moreover, it's a question that has to do with salvation, that supposes the reversal of public money, ask it - I ask the ACA, that it has the problem with all the contaminated aquifers, and, therefore, it's a question that we need to address. We know they're preparing a decree, but the issue is the model, in the end, because with this model, the ones that are winning..., the ones that really win aren't the little ramaders, no, they're the integrators, who just give them the claw, the pinso, the medicines and make the greix, and we have to manage the residue here. Therefore, this model is not sustainable. We cannot have a country in which..., in Catalonia we are producing – 2015 data – 42,2_per_cent of pork from all over the State. We have more than one pig per inhabitant. So, we have a problem... [[Rialles.]] The dawn is over. [[The joker laughs.]] It's just that it's true, we have a problem that we're going to have to deal with among all of us. But all this is model and it's very important, and with the motion we'll try to approve questions. But, look, now we're going to what's urgent, and what's urgent is the Rural Development Program – I already told you we'd deal with this issue. Why is this urgent? Because you, the Rural Development Program... are the help of the second pillar, the payments coming from agricultural and community policy. And why, moreover, in this case, on all these EAFRD payments, which are co-financed, a share for Brussels, a share for the State and a share for the Generality, there was an agreement that was taken at the sectoral table on 2 July 2014; there were agreements that were taken here, the last in the last general policy debate, in which we decided, with the sectoral table and with all the groups, which were priority measures. Some measures that, moreover, were in the right line, and it turns out that..., and some quantities were approved, some amounts that were reflected in the financial file and that, moreover, we had money of some measures and put it in some others and, moreover, in the right line, because they were in the line of agri-environmental aids, agriculture and environmental ramifications, alternative fight to plagues, alternative fight to chemistry... That is, no one, that we already agree with this model. But then it turns out, surprisingly, these measurements are skipped and we have a 20_per_cent flap. Clearly, it turns out that the director general of Rural Development, when he appeared to try to explain to us - on the 25th of October, he told us that it is for a theme of money, of Madrid..., but the question is not..., you know, that it is not well because from Madrid the financing does not rise, because the financing will arrive, always up late. It is a decision that you take unilaterally: put it in one measure and not in another. Well, apart from..., the one who executed the EAFRD, until today, is very little, counselor-paid, huh? , here we have the executed and paid –, compared to other years, we go late, we go a little..., therefore, from here..., they remain two months, we will have to spy, because we go very hard. Miri, the measurements that are retaliated. [[The speaker shows a full camera.]] The measurements that are detailed are of taronja color. A document delivered to us by the Director General. Wetlands management, i.e., agro-environmental, management and recovery of lawns, beekeeping, alternative systems to chemical fighting, agriculture, and ecological rowing. They're just the measures... – well, they went to the global exploitation contract – they're measures that go in the right model, they help us fix people in the territories, they affect a lot north, center of the country and south and, surprisingly, they say it's because they have less money. See, the quantity was fixed: 810_millions. And, what's more, the amount there was for the global exploitation contract, if we split... in the previous period, between eight years, which was to be split between eight years, because in the end it paid 2015, and this, between six years, in the end, there are 80.16 million per year. Therefore, you retaliate in these, but in changes, surprisingly, they convoke..., for example, they call for the "autochthonous breeds and beekeeping", and impute it twice in 2016. Change the order... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, I have orders, then I can read it, that if I don't, I won't have time... And they charge her twice in the 2016 pressupost. So it's worrying. And, above all, it's worrying that the director general says in committee, say... – and he can look at the transcript – he says: « To ecological agriculture, precisely, no one has complained. Home! She has not complained about any of the... Registered writings of the majority union that she represents..., she has the sixty-and-a-half representation, September 9th, Lands of the Hebrews; September 23rd, Central Catalonia; October 14th, Lleida's flat; October 17th, Baix Camp. Demonstrations, tractors... the last tractor, November 5 to the Upper Earth. Therefore, complain, yes they have complained; another thing is that, for what it is, it was not possible to hear with the department, that I, I am safe and trust, know it, that they will be in the way of being able to solve it. But, besides, there's an aggravation, and..., that the Director General also explained, is that when one year is done this 20_per_cent reduction, this reduction has to be applied for the next five years, for which we're telling them that these retails won't be from this year, they'll be for every five years they come. If it is not that we decide to change, introduce it to Brussels, that the regulation allows it, and we can change the plan of rural development. But the director says: "No, you would be going to Brussels to change the RDP. Home, you'll be fine. Look, if you're setting up various autonomous communities, you're setting up to change it, because the rules do allow it. That's more, I'll tell you more; our group in Madrid, United We can, we're looking at all the payments, and looking at the hardships between territories, we're looking at how we ask this change, because it's more fair, because it's more fair. So I don't think it's going to happen if it's a landing and from 2017, which is still three years of PDR, it's possible to set the change. Clearly, this situation, who does it affect the most? It's affecting..., I already said it, because, besides, you know that there was also the breakdown in 2015, of the compensations that are paid to areas with natural limitations. Clearly, this line is basic for fixing people to the territory, because it is the people who live in the most difficult territories where we are interested in fixing people. Or it has affected the north, all the mountain range, which they have hooked up to most; the mountain range has hooked up everything, but it has also affected the people of the Lands of the Ebro, with all the agri-environmentals of the united areas, the reddish trees, which, moreover, you know they have the problem of the plague of the burden of the apple, of the burden of the apple. And yes – I see that I'm running out of time – we also see that your department, as well as other communities are calling for the advance of payments from the first sector, the first pillar, the Feaga, or Catalonia, has not asked for this advance. In any case, at the same time, we will continue to advise. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.37.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Serret, Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.38.0	Good morning, Congresswoman. Good morning, President, members of this Parliament. First of all – excuse me, huh? The constipated, I see a little bit so... – I would also like to thank the opportunity of this inquiry, as the honourable Member has said, a few months ago that we are in government and from the very first moment we have tried – and the honourable Member also knows this, because we have not spoken many times – to reorient and give new visions to what is agricultural policy, timber, forestry, right? , forestry, fisheries and in general everything you have to do with the primary sector of our country. We are clear that it is a sector that has many challenges, but also many opportunities, and here is where we should go to do the best we can. We want a model that is of excellence and reference, we work to keep this sector well prepared and above all we want to deploy at most all our skills and draw, right? – you know that we are here with a country project and that we want to build a republic – those good bases in front of a republic. And we're very conscious, and we've said it many times, and here we're going to repeat again, that it's a sector, the mayor, that manages 90 percent of our territory and provides us with a basic need for food, huh? And here are the two great pillars that we need to falsify, and therefore, we have always said, the objectives, the objectives of the country present and in the future, with a vision of the republic, that we want socially just, economically prosperous and environmentally sustainable..., the sector is basic. In these two great elements, huh? , land management and supply, isn't it? , management of the environment and supply of food. And, as you said, we have big reps like society and the country. The climate change; we have to adapt and we also have to make efforts in mitigation. We also have the challenge of globalisation and markets; we need to structure our sectors very well, and we need to focus very well on how the whole value chain is organised in order to cope with these challenges of globalisation, by falsifying what is local production, what is the proximity product, with all the guarantees of the quality and food security system that we have created and equipped ourselves at European level, but also here in Catalonia, and where we also have passes to advance and give more opportunities to the sector. And, obviously, a great challenge too, which is knowledge society, like all innovation, like all this concept of sharing information and giving more tools because society knows and because the sector has more elements to prepare for these future and market challenges. And, therefore, they are great reptiles that we want to take and that we are prepared, every time more, to give it out. With all this, and we've said it many times, but here I come back to say, there are strategic elements, and when we've already made the presentation of the government plan we tried to identify them, and today you didn't point out some and we'll try to give them an answer. One of the basics, and we said it, with the challenge of sustainability, with the challenge of social justice, too, right? , and a socio-economic development, which we have said every time we want small, medium-sized and large businesses in the territory, small farms in the territory and with a good business model... And obviously – you said so, huh? – accessibility to the land is basic, the market of the land is basic. Here we committed ourselves and we're working to develop, surely from that pre-project you wanted, right? How can we implement a law that we want to evolve, we want it to be a law of agricultural areas... You've already talked about the Rural Land Foundation; it's done a lot of work between the Rural Land Foundation and Agroterritori to categorize as well, isn't it? which criteria we need to develop in order to be able to value agricultural areas and then have those tools to define agricultural areas of interest, to define which measures we need to go preserving. We are all developing this, and the compromise as to governance is that in the first half of 2017 a proposal enters this chamber. Another of the great issues that we have always said are as basic as the country, and also with this strategy of environmental management, adaptation to climate change and food supply, is the kingdom, isn't it? : how we effectively manage water in the primary sector and in the territory. From here, we are very clear that it is basic and appropriate to prioritise the modernization of the kingdom, right? This was also the basic position when we discussed it and we showed our opposition to that shell plate of the Ebro that was driven from the state. We need to prioritise all investments in view of the modernization of the kingdom, and that's what we're doing. And also when we plant and when we focus on the Gargoyle Snake. Also when we approach the Segarra-Garrigues we are aware that it has to be a tool to help that in that territory in which we can dispose of irrigation..., that, I remember, 90_percent of the country's rural territory, 60_per_cent forest, 30_per_cent agricultural land, and, of this 30_per_cent, a 10_per_cent irrigation land, and here, in this 10_per_cent, we make 70_per_cent of the country's agricultural production. Therefore, accessibility to food also rests much of this realm and we pose and develop this realm in the territory. And here, obviously, we prioritize what we say before, huh? : that there is a model and that there is a development plan behind this development of the kingdom and that, therefore, there are farms that are betting for this kingdom. Do not work because yes and then see who benefits, but ensure that we have these branches and these pages that can benefit and develop their farms. Give the issue of EPAs and the Environmental Impact Statement. From this government, we have also said some at first, we have been committed to completing the Environmental Impact Statement. Why? Because, as you said, there's a feeling, a feeling that it's executive and that we're not stopping the execution, because, as good as it gets done, so we're going to have a very big problem. And to develop, right? , this compliment of judgment must be supplemented by compensatory measures, as laid down in the Declaration of Environmental Impact which makes Brussels complete. And in this deployment of compensatory measures we are betting..., and the compromise is that 2018 has been able to complete all compensatory measures. At the same time we are in constant dialogue with Brussels to generate this confidence again, right? , of the Brussels execution in the execution of this country, and in the government and in the country itself, in Catalonia, why can we, if necessary, discuss and refocus and evaluate the compliment of these compensatory measures and, if necessary, review them. But we have to do this once we have the confidence that we don't have now and that we have to win. For what he does to the PDR – and then, if he does, we'll continue later; I'll talk about PDR, but I'll talk about it a little more generally, huh? – you've been saying concrete things. First, to give a general idea, as you said, the entire programme of the 2014-2020 RDP is 810_million euros; 810_million euros of which between 2015 and 2016 we have resolved, from all the requests presented approximately now..., you know that we have not yet finished the year, but, in principle, all that we have solved until now are 260,8_million euros, solved, of 810. And in these 260,8 I'm talking about what are the demands of competitiveness measures, agri-environmental measures and others, which are going to farms, eh? Here I would like to add after all that has been resolved in forest management or management of Leaders, which, I feel, are also lines of the RDP, and that what we do not believe we have done..., as you have said, has been prioritised in its moment all those that are between the global exploitation contract, yes, but we cannot abandon or forget these other lines, because, as you know, for the sustainability of our country, we also need to promote forest management, we need to promote economic diversification, and therefore we believe that we are at a limit, already, that we cannot drink more these other lines. From here, 2015 has been implemented..., they have gone to the sector, with direct aid from the CAP, associated and dissociated, 264_million euros; in agri-environmental and sustainability they have gone to the sector 38_million euros, and in competitiveness they have gone to 67,74_million euros, of which young people, that is one of the great priorities that you know we have, both with plans of incorporation as with those of competitiveness that are linked to young people with these plans of incorporation, 39,5_million euros. From here, when we were told the details, the situations that we encountered with..., above all with the agri-environmental aid, there was a reality: there were 38_million euros destined for agri-environmental aid, there were more demands than funding... That is to say, we didn't have any needs, we didn't detail any departures; we found ourselves with more demands than resources. From here, the regulations allow partial compensation. And then I just made it clear how each of the different help lines are. "Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.39.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word "Mrs. Grau."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.40.0	Thank you. Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. I see that I left the paper... we don't have the data, the figures he said yes, but in the case that there were more requests it was only, according to the powerpoint that the Director General passed to us, with them integrated, and, in change, with the agri-ambi..., here there were more requests, but not in the others. But, in any case, I would advise you, I would ask you, if it was agreed... I understand what you are saying, that the Leader programme is important to you, to young farmers as well – they have all been paid, they were in the green – but if here it comes to the sector, with the concert table, it comes to agreements, it changes the whole financial file, as if it were, it comes to agreements in this Parliament, I think that as at least, if they don't respect or vary, there must be, or in the concert table or with the sector..., I can talk about it. Because, if not, that's a lack of trust or thinking that the department doesn't know exactly where it's going... Because, for example, what you've explained now, the director didn't say in his intervention, that it was because they had to make up for the others. So, it's important to explain. Then there's another question. To see, there are some cases, as I said, that for us they are clau; and here I will refer to the theme of mountain ramaders. You know that this is one of the extensive collection that has been painted the most, that has been so much more detailed as the changes in the regulations. But it is that, moreover, it has suffered because, by and large, if we take the mountain branches, for example, on the other side of the Pyrenees, those of the Languadoc-Rossello, and take its financial file, of the same measures, they cover much more than those of Catalonia. This is part of Brussels's rule. Therefore, this is where we have to look at compensatory measures. Or the one I read about the Ebre Lands. In the Lands of Ebro, the agro-environmentals of the land; a sector that, moreover, in the case of the left half-daughter, has been painted since two years ago the plague of the apple carol; that I know that they have been doing things, but that it turns out that what they have been doing is not working. And, of course, counsel, we are very concerned when we feel that in the case of the left hemisdelta there is no longer anything to do, we confine, or follow, to make a confinement..., I mean, we have to get used to producing with the plague, and in the case of the right hemisdelta, where the eighty-hectares have been detected, there we will try to quench the focus. Clearly, we can't tell them this, in the pages of southern Catalonia, a land that is already..., which is precarious, the delta is very precarious– I look at Sergi, because today we are talking about it–, it is a very precarious territory, and, of course, a plague of this type changes everything. Something's failing. There's a lot of money, a million euros a year, but something's failing, because it's always multi-causal, it's true, but the combination of measurements... – desiccating, putting salt water, controls on the machinery – there's something that's not working. You know there was a plan proposal, it was a plan: 7_million, five years, sectorizing. But I wouldn't give up, or go on, 7_million, listen... they gave him 8_million to high school. Ostres, the whole pages of the Ebro Delta, the entire Arro sector, well, it's a reversal. Therefore, in this sense, we think that on the subject of the cocksucker, counselor, they will have to pose there. It is clear that other groups are also working, we have asked for appearances. He didn't answer me either, he didn't tell me the issue of waste picks, that it's another problem that concerns us and deals with us, because it's not better. Every time we have more vulnerable areas, we have more problems. And then what I said to him: the subject of the Feder. We know that on the subject of the Feder Madrid pays such, the co-financing that is close to it has lowered it to respect the other program; all we know is that. But also, for example, in the case of the Feaga, the first..., direct help, the first pillar, it turns out that it was possible to demand the advance payment of 70_per_cent. Other communities have asked for it. You haven't asked for it, because you don't have girls in the administrative reviews, because there's been a problem in the summer for the middle... But, of course, that's a lot of money, that's what Navarra asked for, that's where Valencia, Murcia... Home, so, here, because on the issue of the RDP, which aren't direct income support, there's been this down payment, I think you should try to pay for this first pillar, this direct income support. That's also why one question is: when do they plan to pay for these direct aids? Because here, moreover, there are the helpers covered by the theme of the bed, of the cows said, therefore, that in the case of the mountain branches they would be fine. And, therefore – and I finish, she will advise – we believe that, with consensus, listening to the sector, the most representative entities, with the groups, can reverse this situation. That's what we're gonna try with the next guy, huh? , we will try to reverse this and, above all, to insist on the compliment of the agreements and resolutions adopted with both the sector and in this Parliament, which, moreover, is that they are on the line of improving, because I believe that if we listen to all of us we can improve. I found myself at DO Catalunya on the train today, and she was explaining to me at the cork of the river...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.41.0	Mrs. Grau, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.42.0	Yes, thank you, President. It's important... no, no, it seems silly, but, of course, if we make a plague... if we make a non-chemical treatment to the cork of the ray, we stop throwing insecticide; win the environment, win the air quality, and, therefore, I think it's something that, well, in the end, challenges us all...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.43.0	Please, Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.44.0	Thank you, President! [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.45.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.46.0	Thank you, President. Member of Parliament, we need three-hour interrogations to be able to work on everything. [[The councilwoman's laughing.]] See, you're right, before I neglected to comment... Well, I already said, huh? , that I would just comment on the issue of aids. See, on the subject of help, and then... I stuffed this and I just explained the subject of vulnerable areas and hell of a pome. We're talking about priorities. I want to insist on a concept too; priorities have been respected, not a single departure has been lowered; and yet, on the contrary, we are looking to increase, if we can, those parties of the lines that had been prioritized. However... we have seen that everyone who fulfills covered requirements, nor that it was with the compensation of 20_per_cent, which is a measure at the end that the European Union allows us. Why? Why prioritize, I'm sorry, because we're always talking about public and scarce resources, and you don't want to charge 100_per_cent, do you? And, I insist, he has never been fooled, because the summonses already predict that there may be this compensation if there is not enough resources. Therefore, the lines have been prioritized, yes or yes, and no presuppositional departure has been lowered. From here, as I said, on the subject of ecological ramblings, this first year certainly was very complex, we found that we found ourselves at the level of more than..., not only the one of more demands, but also that, moreover, a different calculus system, and that we were also surprised by the effects that the fact has had in many areas that it is not possible to match the undergrowth. And here what we're doing is..., and before the end of the year, from the Romans, we'll try to make a second turn and supplement the maximum; we'll try, in the ecologic branch, to reach 100 percent of the aid. For what it does to areas with natural limitations, 2015 has recovered much the assumption respect to previous years. Actually, it's already paid for the 68_per_cent advance, and by the end of the year we'll be looking to exceed 90_per_cent, huh? I don't know if we're going to get to 100_per_cent, but we're going to try to get over 90_per_cent. For what you do to the CAP god, we do advance the dissociated direct aids, and on November 18 is paid the 70_per_cent, and, the rest, at the end of the year, before the end of the year, the 100_per_cent. Associated helpers are already a fan, as you know, during the first half of 2017. And, in view of the revisions, we're already working on the 2017 call, and with the unions and other agents we're going to go together, because I'm a vagina..., here too I want to falsify the concept: we need to guide the help to that so that we want to push..., with the policy objectives we want to push. In this sense..., and I am connected to the strategy of waste management, which, as you know, is a strategy to achieve excellence in organic fertilisation and waste management that will improve all that is the treatment on the farm; to improve the maximum that is the application to the soil; to put the maximum control, also, on the part of the Administration, with an annual declaration; to put the maximum that is left out of the knowledge society, much information, both in these annual declarations as in GPS systems, as in systems of soil and water analysis. So, we'll put a lot more support into this. From here we will also guide the help lines of the PDR, in the measure that we can, to reinforce this strategy of better organic fertilisation and management of discharges to help the adaptation that our farms need. And, therefore, the model objective that we have is the harmonization of agriculture and industry. And for what he does to the cargoman, we are allocated, like God, 1_million euros annually. There's a technical follow-up committee, which is what you decide what you're doing; there's an ad hoc group running. And what we have to do, sometimes, isn't so much to think about seeing a lot of money, but good to do. And from here, let's apply a lot more control, let's apply a lot more follow-up, and let's assess what we do, what we do, how we do it, and where we do it. And, obviously, with this integral view of the Delta system, because we also see that the impacts you have on fishing or shellfish are important, and here too we have to put solutions, and we are working on this follow-up committee with all the agents, and, I insist, huh? , with a vision of the future and a full vision of the Ebro Delta. From here, for God's sake, huh? We invite each other to keep working, to look at how we are getting better at all these lines. There are many fears; safety and sanitation are very important, and here we also continue to bet on it and above all working, because, as you know, the plagues do not understand anything– neither of ‘times, nor of assumptions, nor of administrative limits–, and, sometimes, what is missing is the sight of our surroundings too to have more harmonised policies. And that's what we're trying to claim, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.47.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on youth employment]] [[300-00096/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on youth employment presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.48.0	Yes, thank you, President. Bon jour, MPs, MPs, Councillors... Look, Councillor, « Spain is not a country for young people, as if a film by the Coen brothers were, or« Spain is the promised land of youth underemployment are unfortunately some of the headlines that one can read in the press in recent times. And I brought you these two, but I could have brought you many others, because the truth is that there are quite a few going in this line. And it doesn't surprise me; it doesn't surprise me because we are, together with Italy, Greece and Bulgaria, the worst figures we have for young people throughout Europe. Then we will review the figures, focusing exclusively on Catalonia, according to the last Labour Force Survey, that of the third quarter, a survey that shows very worrying data, especially for the group of young people under twenty-nine years of age. In fact, these data shown by the EPA fully coincide with the opinion of the experts, who point out that we can be faced with a lost generation, a generation marked by the crisis, the lack of expectations, the lack of opportunities, school failure and job insecurity. If a few years ago the generation of the children was made known, the young people who neither studied nor worked, now the problem, far from being solved, has been aggravated, becoming known as the generation« ninini, young people who neither study, nor work and no longer even seek. And why? What has happened to make this situation worse? Well, the data from the latest EPA clearly reflect the serious situation in which young people find themselves and the complicated future they face, which, obviously, is directly proportional to this increase in the number of young people and to this increase in the frustration of young people here in Catalonia. Let's see the figures. Let's talk about unemployment, Counselor. According to the third-quarter EPA, the unemployment rate in the age group ranging from sixteen to twenty-four years was in Catalonia in 32,2_per_cent; that is, almost one-third of young Catalans were unable to find work. And we suspect that they are more, because you already know that to calculate the occupation data are not taken into account those young people who are studying. Between the sixteen and the twenty-four years it is very feasible to be studied, but it is also that the young people, in view of the panorama that exists, are extending this stage of study. Therefore, these young people are not being counted, but they are also there. And perhaps there will be those who take comfort in other people's ills and are happy with Catalonia's figures because it is true that they are a little better than in the rest of the country, but they are still the worst in Europe. Therefore, as much as unemployment has been reduced, as we could hear here by a Member of Junts pel Yes, in this same chamber, they are still very bad figures, and much less are figures as to take out breasts or as to conform itself. Look, in Citizens we certainly do not settle for these figures, because behind these figures, behind these numbers, there are young people; young people who have suffered the most from the crisis, young people whose jobs were the first to destroy themselves with this crisis. And, by the way, we have not recovered these jobs; we are far from returning to the figures we had before the crisis. In addition, for young people, unemployment protection, i.e. the payment of unemployment benefits, is therefore significantly low. Why? Because it has not yet given them time to contribute, and therefore this means that they have no income, and because they have no income we are putting them in a very worrying risk situation. And what about those who do work? Well, you don't think they're in better shape. Those who work do so in low-skilled and more precarious jobs, compared to the group of more than twenty-nine years old; that is, so that we all understand each other, contracts garbage, councillor; contracts garbage, which, above all, in more than half of the cases are temporary. This is the first time we've crossed the 50_per_cent threshold of temporality. Look, we may be getting out of the crisis, but where, sure, we're not getting out is precarious. If we look at this data globally, what we see among young Catalans, look: those who want to work cannot because there is a very high unemployment rate; among those who work, there is a high level of precariousness; and among the unemployed, it turns out that they have no protection, that they have no income. This is therefore an unsustainable situation, both of youth unemployment and of job insecurity, which condemns our young people to a very uncertain and hopeless future. It seems to me that what I was saying at the beginning, about the paradise of underemployment, is short. With this picture, I also wonder what we are going to do in order to alleviate the high level of drop-out, because it is another worrying fact that we also have about young people; we have a rate far above the European average, and I assure you that this scenario, because it does not help, does not help to solve anything at all. Therefore, we wondered what was causing young people to neither study nor work, and now they don't even look. I think it's made clear why. But the most important question is not this. The most important question is what your department is doing to stop this situation, what concrete measures are being taken, counsel. I really ask you why I have not just become too clear, and I hope that, with this inquiry, then, that changes. See if you can explain to me what tools we are giving young people to reverse this situation. Tools in Formation? I don't think so. Look, today studying a university career in Catalonia costs the triple that in Andalusia, Galicia or Extremadura. In Andalusia, councillor, where you told us yesterday that the children of the tail came from; perhaps today also tells me that the unemployed come from Andalusia. Well, look, it's three times less difficult for them to study there than here in Catalonia. Tools in Competitiveness? Well, neither. We already know the model of education that you defend. They don't even want to hear about the trilingual system. That is, apparently, that our young people can perfectly master three languages does not suit them. That's how it goes, of course. Incentives of some kind? Nor, if we have just talked about the type of employment young people can access: precarious employment, temporary employment, garbage contracts, I have already told you. And believe me, it doesn't matter here whether you have studies or not, because there is a rate of overqualification of more than 37_per_cent. And I tell you more, it turns out that there are young people who have to delete, they have to eliminate from their curriculum the training they have, because, if not, they do not hire them. I mean, young people who have done things right, young people who have done their homework and who now see how the Administration doesn't do theirs. Entrepreneurship measures, perhaps? Well, neither. Look, what's here is a lot of bureaucracy and little help. We are the autonomous community with the highest levels of public administration: metropolitan areas, county councils, deputies, municipalities, Generalitat... And, by the way, speaking of this, how is the implementation of the single window, councillor? Let's see if we can make it easier for those young people who, with whom it is falling, are brave and dare to set up a business and set up a business. Let's see if we can help them, rather than stop them, which seems to be what the Administration is doing now. The truth is that I want you to explain to me, and I hope – I hope – that you will not tell me that you have no skills, as I read a few days ago in an interview that you gave to the newspaper El País. I'll read him what he said. You said to us: "The work is, we are not tired of repeating it, a social measure by excellence and work; the activity of people, who produce goods or services, dignifies the country. The Government of Catalonia does not have the skills to legislate in labor matters, laasima! Too bad! , you said, councilwoman, pity! Do you have no competence in active occupation policies? What steps have been taken to increase youth participation in the labour market? What steps have been taken to ensure that the labour force profile of young people responds to the needs of the labour market? What measures have they taken to promote youth training, increase participation in higher education? What measures, counsel? Can you explain them to me? And I don't quote these things at random, no. These are some of the guidelines of the Europe 2020 strategy that you assumed as your own. What have they done about it? I imagine you will tell me about the Youth Guarantee and the model that you have developed, unique in the state, as the CEO of SOC told us the other day. I say no, because it is also done in other autonomous communities, as for example in Aragon. Look, youth guarantee programs that cast figures that aren't like to be happy. Judge the data yourself, counsel; data provided by your own department. As explained the other day by the head of the Youth Occupation Area, Mr Quiroga, of the 49,840 youth beneficiaries of the Youth Guarantee, only 19,992 are working. That is to say, we have 150,000 young people standing by and with the guarantee they don't end up working even 20,000. In his star program, as Mr Quiroga called it, the New Opportunities Program, there are 3,000 young people; I repeat the figure: 150,000 young people standing still and it turns out that the star program only reaches 3,000 young people. Good thing it's the star. Look, when we asked them the other day about the degree of implementation of the budget, they gave us as an excuse that, at first, for there was confusion with Europe, that they did not know well, well how they were going to advance the funds... Well, well, it seems that the confusion only affected you, because while here, in 2015 in Catalonia, only 39_percent of the budget had been executed, it turns out that in Asturias they had executed 64, and in Navarre, more than 90_percent. So don't excuse us, please, Counselor. Look, make active policies of occupation, because for that they do have competences; take more advantage of youth guarantee funds; make the youth guarantee program reach younger; also explore other resources, advise: dignify self-employment, promote start-ups, empower the dual FP, analyze the profile of young people, coordinate with the state. In short, stop regretting yourself for the skills you do not have and take care of those you do, because you have a lot of work to do. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.49.0	Thank you, Mrs. Roldán. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.50.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs Lorena. What worries me is that every time we do a committee that we talk about a particular topic, you then ask me to come and make an inquiry, and, I know hard for the other Members who have attended the committee, to listen again to what I have said. It's just that it's always the same week, it's already happened in the previous interrogations. But, well, I'll start a lot different from how I started the other interview, and I know it's hard, because, obviously... you get me an article from El Mundo that says: "Spain is not the country for young people..., Spain, Spain, Spain, Spain. Totally agree, miri; Totally agree. But I'm the General Councilwoman, so I don't think I'm talking about Spain for a minute. So don't worry about it. And of what El Mundo said, still less. [[Voice remorse and some applause.]] You're talking to me about the young ni-nis. Listen, I'm not gonna say it's just a day, but no one's talking about the young ni-nis anymore. That was a thing of two years ago, when I started working on employment programs. Now it's about the young JESP, it's about the young people who don't find work, it's about... but young ni-nis, instead of Europe, the world... I won't tell you about Europe, but about the world, because, besides, it's a statement from the International Labour Organization, which says it's an obsolete theme, an ancient theme, because it's not true that young people don't want to work or study. The other problem is the labor market we have and what we have around it. So let's start changing concepts, because I already know that sometimes words are not important, but words define policies and also define concepts. You're talking to me about the issues we're working on, the issues we're working on, the issues we're working on, the issues we're working on, the issues we're working on, the issues we're working on, the issues I'll read it. The numbers don't match what the EPA said either, I don't know why there's been more than 33_percent of the rate, because, if you look..., it's 23_percent, if you looked at the last EPA; 33 was last year's, this is 23. But, let's talk about the EPA, which is what you want to talk about, at first, right? Active population. Let's look at the dice. It's true, from the active population of under twenty-nine, what does the EPA tell us? What's higher than the general tax on other age fringes, okay? So, a first thing. But what do you say? It turns out that in the occupied population, Catalonia... the occupied youth population grows with more intensity than it does. So, with more intensity. Are you happy? No! No! And we've always said that, and let's start on this side, we don't think we're happy with the data, but we are happy with the program, a program that we have the happiness of many countries in Europe, the way we implemented it in Catalonia, despite the State, and I say it clearly: despite the requirements of the State. And then I will explain why and explain what the European Community has told us. But let's go back to the dice. The occupied youth population grows with more intensity than it does: 25,600 people more busy than the previous quarter and 30,000 more than a year ago. It's not enough, no; but something means. Young people from seven to twenty-nine years are the population group with the least permanence in the occupation, but also with the least permanence in the past. So, what do you mean? That they're the ones they've got the most. And here's where we have to vary the active policies; don't make them manat, that's right here..., to active policies we do have all the competitions, like we don't have them working. We can't do anything about it because they're competitors of the state – luck that we can do soon. The percentage of traffic, therefore, is much greater between the time and that. And, therefore, what we have defined and are doing are active policies that are agile, permanent during the year; another issue different from what the State does, the State all starts them in the same month and ends them another month and young people find a time they can't get in there. We have made them at the length of the year, but above all, we are making them suitable; suitable for each profile and for each sector. Happy? I repeat again: no! We need to change and we need to do many more, but, in principle, data is much better than anywhere else. If we're talking about the contract: 40 percent of the contract that's been made these last few years, during this last quarter of the EPA, is with young people from seven to twenty-nine years, from all fringes, to 40 percent is young. That's not what I'm saying, is it? This is EPA, I mean I don't make up data. And at the time, 8,500 young people in this band told me that the previous quarter..., 34,900 less than a year ago; this leads to a rate of 23,9_per_cent, which represents a 2_per_cent less than the previous quarter and a 5,3_per_cent less than a year ago. So the data doesn't match us, and my data is official. So, then, he'll explain to me where he was dealing with them, clearly, because they don't have to be the same. I'll get into the programs. Before I get into the programs, which I already say I know hard because we can explain it..., and the stars, we said, are star, because they are very different; while having programs that look like the rest of the state, the insertion is completely different, and that's what I talk to any community about. And what you tell me about Asturias and Navarre..., precisely with the Counsellor of Navarre's Work we are always in contact; in fact, we are the ones who wanted to start the whole refugee issue, because, more than that, we talk about it very often. And what I'm going to tell him is that he's... he's telling me about the expense, but tell him about the programs, please; tell him he's copying, and he's telling me clearly, programs that we're doing here to implement them there. Because at the gathering of communities on youth guarantee programs, many people ask what we did to be able to pass them over and copy them, because with the margin we have, unfortunately required... horrific! : difficulties of registration because they come from the State and we can not vary, and unfortunately, above all, the little proximity that allows us, because I remind you that the State is left a 50_percent of the premise of these programs that come here, and that we have denounced it, not only as counsel, all social and economic agents, with full concertation, with a letter to the Minister, but also to Europe. We've reported it to Brussels and we've been... every time we've been there, we've explained it to them. We need to hold them together, and to hold them together we need something that you already know and that we are working for it. But apart from all the youth guarantee programs, which I will then enter, and other programs that we are in business... Yesterday explained one, explained a program and I assume that you were in plenary, a program for young people who have qualifications, that comes the week you see. Therefore, we also work on other programs, because we have made a general planning. I would like to explain the national youth emancipation network; a network that has 294 youth information points of all these themes that you asked me. Now, you don't ask me because I'm talking about college; I'm not the education or business and knowledge counselor. Don't ask me because I'm talking about other issues of the government; ask who you need to do them to. I can be asked about work, I can be asked about social issues and family issues, which are the skills I have in government. Two-hundred-four points of youth information, thirty-four young officers. What's the point? With very clear objectives, with objectives that are: the National Plan, that we have, as a young person, a national plan that agrees with the 2020 strategy, not only European, but with the Catalan Strategy 2020, that we have five points, and in each of these points we have programs: reduce early abandonment of the studies, and I can tell you how far we have reached during this time; recover young people in a low-skilled way, for this reason the programs that I will then degenerate; job placement of young people with qualifications, therefore, intermediation actions that are done in each of these points, beyond the concert we have with all the social agents; generation of information about us working places, and all the knowledge we need. Therefore, the Catalan 2020 strategy, in full agreement with the European 2020 strategy..., we are working. Public policies, then I will explain to you clearly what we mean by public policies, such as women and how we move forward. We're not happy, and I repeat it for the third time, and we'll do whatever it takes to get all the young people to have the rights they need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.51.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the word Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.52.0	Yes, thank you. Good. The other day here, in the previous plenary session, we were told that we seemed to bring the written replicas from home. It is not that we bring them written, no; what happens is that as you strive and insist on answering us always the same, for in the end it is that one already knows the answers of memory. Look, no matter what we ask, she'll advise, whether she's from her apartment or not. If we ask you about self-employed people, if we ask you about guardianship, abuse, addiction, employment, you always answer the same thing. Either they do everything superbly, perfect and they have a thousand projects and strategies, which they're going to put in place, we don't know when, or the blame turns out others have it. And with these arguments we already have everything done. I don't know, it reminds me a little of the ghetto, that with four sentences they make all the songs, and you with four sentences they make all the speeches. [[Greetings.]] Look, the figures you were telling me, that you think I have them, these figures were actually given the other day, as you said, in the Youth Committee. It has coincided with the subject, but to me it seems perfect that you, as counsel you are, come here to give us the explanations that suit you. Look, the figures, you told me that the unemployment figure was 23_per_cent, yes. From 23_percent to twenty-nine years old, but I told him about the section from sixteen to twenty-four, here is 32,2_percent. So the figures were correct. Look, stop making excuses. Make a little more self-criticism. Do not announce any more measures now; do them! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Give us the results. It doesn't do us any good, it doesn't do us any good the other day what the SOC director told us, who told us, that you also commented, that to register for the Youth Guarantee..., it's very complex, which are up to seven screens online, she told us. Look, counselor, Youth Guarantee, young, native digital..., do you really want me to believe that those who aim, young people, can't pass seven computer screens? Really? Look, fifty-thousand registered in the Youth Guarantee, ten-thousand of these have been targeted through the points of attention. I mean, that the other forty-thousands have pointed themselves out to themselves, so hard it won't be, counselor. And speaking of offices, when a young man goes to SOC, is he informed about the Youth Guarantee? Do they have these points of attention explained to them? Because young people and entities don't tell us the same thing, and the data doesn't seem to tell us either. And he's talking to us... he's still talking about administrative complexity, the state's hindrances. You said you weren't going to talk about the state, but when it's to criticize then you are talking about the state. And I remind you..., I remind you that Catalonia is also Spain, I remind you, although some of you seem to live in Narnia, but no, we are in Spain, thank God, still. [[Greetings.]] Look, I told you before that we are the autonomous community with more levels of public administration, with more complications. I asked him about the one-stop shop, he didn't answer me. This is the competence of your department. See, recently, even in your department they had to extend the deadline for the call for grants of the programme«Forma i insereix, because there were not enough entities, with so many administrative records and things that are invented. We don't need excuses, Counselor. It is no use for us to be told how many projects will be implemented if these programmes are not carried out. How much is the budget allocated to promoting youth employment going to be, Counselor? Because if we don't number these projects that you tell us, they can hardly be carried out. Nor is it useful to advertise programs if the results are not good or if, as, for example, we then see things like this, I teach you. [[The speaker shows a full camera.]] The Jove website. Cat puts it: "Do you want to work at Nadal? I'm going to read him what he says, because I've been stunned. He puts it here: "Are we looking for the offers of nothinglenca work? The Internet is gaining a lot of ground in conventional job search systems, so the most direct form is on the companies' websites of the sectors we have just described. Evidently public employment services or temporary work enterprises are also an option. Come on, you recognize that it is better to go directly to companies' websites than to SOC itself. I don't think we need to add any more. [[Greetings.]] Look, I've told you before, but let me insist: school failure and early drop-out, as much as you tell me that the rate is falling, we are among the highest in Europe, and especially for those families with socio-economic problems. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, a report from Save the Children says, I don't make it up: young people who don't study, work, or seek. Call them as you wish: "Nininis or... No, they are not young people who do not want to study, they cannot even study, because we have already told you the price of the university what it is, nor can they access the labour market. A youth unemployment rate of the highest in Europe; young people who are forced to leave Catalonia in search of an opportunity, young people with garbage contracts, young people who, despite having done their homework, see how their dreams and expectations are frustrated. That, counselor, is happening here in Catalonia, that is the reality of our young people. Let there be excuses, let there be lamentations, because this attitude is also contagious. How are the young people not going to go out of Spain, if it is that with the panorama that there is here... We are letting the talent escape. We Citizens, we have hope, we really believe that things can be done differently, with work, going to negotiate. We are the group that has presented the most social proposals, and not as you do, which seems to have joined in the fashion of the ninis, because they don't leave..., well, they don't do or let do. We do, we want to make these proposals. We will present them in the next motion, because the problems of young people cannot wait any longer. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.53.0	Thank you, Mrs. Roldán. Answer the councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.54.0	Thank you very much for your intervention – fanciful, you are right, you will do very well, and we will see it very quickly, not in our country, but in other countries, because here they do not govern, so we will see it perfectly, and we will see what they are doing with young people, and they will take them, and now it is a good thing for the Councillor, that in that part where we do not have skills, for example, in the politics of occupation, in the space of this, of young people, I would like to see that from here to a year there is a great change because, to you, the proposals that they have made... they believe, the fans, and they will do it, because then it will be the way that Europe will not give up the bad news that they are doing. But I'm getting over it. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'll tell you what. I suppose you know that the occupation... Yes; I pass, exactly, on the subject that you have explained, of how you will do it in Spain, the same one that, as you listen, as you carry me, therefore, the papers of El Mundo. I've already told you at first that all I'm wearing from El Mundo photos, or pictures of other things... that I don't think they're going to be brought to a parliament, and I'll make it very clear... that you've made it very clear, so I can also make it very clear. I think there's a part that's young people's dignity and that it's unworthy to take pictures to the Young Parliament when they're between god and fifteen young people. That said, I'll answer to the first one you said. I guess you know, like most people know, the ILO programs, huh? , the International Labour Organization, which says: "Youth occupation is a global challenge. It's not Catalonia, it's one of the top public priorities, and the International Labour Organization has a commitment to work worthy of all young people, because it turns out that young people's data is that 43 percent of young people don't work at the job they want, or they don't have work, or they can't work together. Miri, here we have a big problem, and it's vocational training. That's why we're developing different programs from the professional training that's in the rest of the state; that's why we're for dual training, which is a lot different from what we're doing. Therefore, I also recommend that, in your interventions there, if you can, to see if they help us to explain clearly that dual vocational training is what makes young people better, because precisely dual vocational training is a competition between Education and Work, because it means being able to combine work and education, that it is what young people in Sweden are doing, that they are making young people in Norway... 50_percent of our young Catalans say that they have taken a more precarious job, that they have taken a partial job, because they want to combine it with studies, and that it is difficult to do so because there is no dual training, that is what we are developing. In change, 80 of the young people in Sweden and Denmark are saying they want a temporary and partial job because they have dual training. So, now that they have so much capacity, I hope that this can also change and we don't always have the ministry on top of it that we can't make a difference. That said, I explained it very clearly, we're not happy; I don't do the pump that you say and that's all so good and all so good. That, I don't know where he came from, because, in my intervention, three times, and I repeated it three times because I understood it well, I said we weren't happy with the facts of the day. Therefore, with this reply they say: "Listen, you don't make self-criticism... I think it's clearer than three times to say: "We're not happy with the facts of the day, so it's exactly self-criticism. And how we do self-criticism we change programs and we get better. Work and legal advice to all youth information points; guidance and advice, not just to work abroad, but for the return plan, because people who are working and studying abroad can come back here; self-employment and self-occupation, at all points, at 294 youth information points, will find it; orientation and customization for job search, with a technician at the side. Two-hundred-four points that would have to be much more, and thirty-eight young people's offices, we agree; as long as we go we have more assumptions... we will have increased them, but for now we have the capillaryity of the country solved. You serve as a generalist for information, advice and youth empowerment; you serve as an education, because we have comprehensive policies, with guidance and advice, and you serve as a Youth Guarantee to all, so that they can register. And it seems to me very good that the generality's website carries everything that's right and carries everything that can be information from others. And it seems very good to me, and from now on to all the centers there will be, that there is all the list of entrepreneurs who are looking for a job. Why do you know what's going on? That we're talking company to company, we're in territories, we're at these youth points, we're talking all around and we're with the SOC...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.55.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.56.0	... some media programs they don't have in other places. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.57.0	The next item is the question to the Government on the Catalan audiovisual communication space presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - Constituent Call. [[Interview with the Government on the Catalan audiovisual communication area]] [[300-00098/11]] To expose her, has the word Lord Albert Botran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.58.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs and MPs, our question today is about audiovisual media, but above all we are talking about Catalan countries, this reality which unfortunately speaks more of their detractors than we are supporters of. And we, therefore, apart from talking about it, that's what we're doing today, we also have to do, above all, and that's why a young man with concrete actions will be due. We defend the Catalan countries as a political subject; so we did it in the general policy debate, in the resolution that was approved, but today we want to focus on it especially from the linguistic and cultural perspective and from the central role that our audiovisual communication media play, because a linguistic community is basically a community of intercommunication and, therefore, mass communication media and their audiovisual media play a phonenal role, and because the future of languages is played in their social use, and so it is clear that audiovisual communication media are also determinant. Thus, for any person with minimal linguistic sensitivities, the reference area of our communication media, whether they were private, or community-based, such as – in the case we are dealing with today – public, should be this Catalan space, this area of the Catalan countries. The public sector is vital for a language like ours, minority. Without the effort, therefore, of the public pressure and of the public workers, who since the end of the franchise have supported all this public sector of communication, today our language is much more minority than it is not. It is for this reason, therefore, that TV3 is not, or, better said, it should not be simply autonomous television. The best proof that TV3 and the channels of the corporation are not that is the struggle that has historically been made to bring its signal, its broadcasts, beyond the limits of strict Catalonia, of the autonomous community; a struggle that began the September 84 to Valencia, when one hundred and fifty entities were formed as friends of TV3 and therefore claimed the arrival of the signal. Later, Manolo García, not the singer but a Sweden, installed an antenna to his home terrace to be able to repress the signal. And, all the while, just like the claim, accompanied, the repression has arrived, the anti-talanism has arrived. In that case, in the form of a civil governor of the PSOE – the antiticatalanism to the Valencia Country does not begin with the PP – of a civil governor who sent the Civil Guard to the end of time to close those issues, right? A wave of solidarity, therefore, with good help to establish repeaters. The story that we all know – or do not know enough, this is the other question – of how the associated movement for language, culture and social rights brought TV3 broadcasts to the Valencian country – as, after, therefore, in the case of Mallorca, was the Association Voltor, German association of the Balear Cultural Work, to put a repeater in the Sierra d'Alfábia, after Menorca, after Eivissa, and, in Northern Catalonia, also with the complicity of the associated tissue and of the joints that were able to install repeaters. It is little known – and should have known more – that the effort to get the media in Catalan out of the autonomous limits came from below, it came, like so many other things, from the grassroots initiative, from popular associationism that is in the country's nerves. Against these national and popular conquests there was definitely Spanishism when the generation of 2007 the Government of Francisco Camps fined Cultural Action of the Valencia Country and cut the emissions, not without, again, an ample show of resistance with demonstrations and episodes like the popular wall that prevented the Civil Guard from closing the repeater of the Carrasket at first. This offensive was produced directly at a time when Catalonia was also beginning to lose audiovisual quota with the entry of TDT, because it meant, therefore, that the majority of cases in this audiovisual area were left with large private companies that in their largest case are of reference to the state and Spanish language. It is not by chance, for example, that Navarre has followed the last territory of the Spanish State to implement TDT, precisely to avoid the size of Euskal Telebista's signal. The català in the media of communication of the Valencian country was restored to the final stage with the closure of Radiotelevision Valenciana, Canal 9, at the time, therefore, when the detail began to take hold in the different territories of the Catalan Countries. Also, on TV3; the details that have affected, and much, in the delicate situation in which today our public media are found, in concrete terms, therefore, have affected the closure of the Catalonia Nord correspondentship, also of the Jews and also of the Pyrenees, and on May 31, 2013 it was the last day of work of a team that for decades had been the TV3 news antenna in Catalonia Nord. Because of the mobilization, this, yes, in this House approved a motion which, among other things, said: "To guarantee the full and permanent presence and coverage of Televisión de Catalunya in the Lands of the Ebre, Pirineu and Northern Catalonia. And in the following, therefore, Corporation Control Commission, the corporate then president, Brauli Duart, said that it was working to recover quickly; but that did not happen. And beyond the most well done or poorly done job that the new correspondent that TV3 has already awarded installed in Girona can do, the fact is that not having a permanent delegation implies not having to deal, so many aspects of a reality that can only be known if it is directly involved. From all these events, the struggles for the communication space in Catalonia have revived, as demonstrated, therefore, a manifesto promoted for the unions. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , the Valencian Interunion, the Alternative Interunion of Catalonia and STEI. Basically, what he means is that our masters, our masters, who are in the teaching of language, know the vital need to have communication instruments, because, if not, then what can be taught in classrooms is truncated and evil. And, therefore, these struggles have revived because you see the imperative need to have communication means in the conjunction of the Catalan Countries. They've revived, but unfortunately we've got to start from a bit further away... from a bit further away than we were. They have broken down our defeats, we have gone back, we carry many years without any sign of broadcasts in catalá in various territories, which would force us to be more ambitious now, when we set ourselves back the situations to which we want to return. We can be, because since May 2015, fortunately, therefore, the corrupt and Catalanophobic Spanishism that had governed the islands and the Valencia Country was able to be dislocated from the institutions and our governments are more open and more receptive to working in audiovisual matters with the Government of the Generality. But I'm in charge of this leadership, this leadership that's holding him back, so the most of the three governments are going to have to have their own network of public media. We have talked about history, we have talked about the current situation and obviously we have to talk about what to do and place, therefore, in the form of a motion, the commitments of the Government. There are some aspects in which the government's competence is direct, which is the coverage of emissions. And in this, therefore, there are two types of problems: those that are technical or reverse – for example, in Catalonia North there is a region like the Conflict where not above the signal of TV3, and this is a technical issue – and then there are obviously political aspects, which are the agreements that must be reached with the governments of the islands and of the Valencia Country, around which we know that there is more government activity, but on which we want to ask three things. One, that there is a firm timetable from which to demand the compliment of the commitments. Secondly, the broadcasts arriving in these territories have all the contents of TV3. As you will know, the one up today in Mallorca and the one that would probably arrive in Valencia are the contents of TV3.cat, which are not the same. Precisely those contents that generate a higher audience are those that stay out, such as the great sporting events and movie premieres. And, thirdly, what we also ask is that in these negotiations the dialogue does not follow solely and exclusively with the governments, but with those entities that, as we have shown, are those that have been at the edge of the cano to bring TV3 broadcasts to the territory, and that, ultimately, are those that will age with more firmness to guarantee their broadcasts. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.59.0	Thank you, Mr. Botran. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.60.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen..., Mr Botran, first of all, thank him for this inquiry into the Catalan audiovisual communication space, and also for the clarity of the aspects he wants to deal with, which has already advanced that they are mostly shared, as it cannot be otherwise. We have said on different occasions, and rightly so, that many times we address these questions more from questions or from questions of those groups that precisely..., are not precisely in this shared struggle in the defense of our audiovisual space and of our language. But it is the Government's will to continue to defend the Catalan communication model, and in a very specific way when we speak of our language, of the country's own language. The mission of public media is to offer quality programming and as a public service, but to do so in our language in a context where clearly the català is in a position of weakness, not in equal conditions, not much less, and also beyond the full normalization that we all want. You were talking about public media, private media, and you have to bet on Catalan language. And it is obvious that this sum of efforts, the role of some and others, the political will, clearly, the efforts of professionals and workers. I believe that it is also very useful to do something about your task, long, and this effort, which you define as the effort of bass, of the associated movement, which allows you to bet for this model, and obviously also for the increase in the consumption of radio and television in catalá, defending this model and defending this language. Willingness, therefore – I reaffirm this will of the Government – to implement and consolidate the Catalan communication space in its totality, we have always been in the band of reciprocity, an idea that we have always defended, which has also defended, as it cannot otherwise be, the Catalan corporation, the body, and to which we are open. To talk about reciprocity actually means to talk about the willingness of different actors, in this case different governments. Let's keep thinking that there's still a way to go, yet, and it's obvious that in the past few years we've had, fortunately, good news in that sense. We come from a very dark stage, you have made reference, where this has been impossible, because the interlocutor or the interlocutors of the Government of the Generality have set the opposite. Fortunately, democracy, the ballot boxes, therefore, have resituated, at the level of Valencia and Balearic Islands, clearly, this situation. In the periods when the People's Party ruled, therefore, reciprocity was cut off, it went clearly into this matter. This approach that we make from the government and that we share with some parliamentary groups, clearly with it, is also the one that defends experts, such as Josep Gifreu, the professor of communication theory and professor emeritus of Pompeu Fabra, when he speaks that the replenishment of this Catalan audiovisual landscape, which implies a project involving all the institutions – politicians, administrative, business, professionals – must be an unquestionable priority of cultural and communication policies of the current managers of the Catalan country. And this is an option that we share, as government; that we understand that it is to be made with a great consensus with the radio and television corporations, with the private world – in this case, the producers –; mechanisms that could be concrete in the future with a platform where the different territories, the radios and the public televisions of the Catalan speaking territories, can share spaces of collaboration in different areas, also for what it does to production and the diffusion of contents. And, in this sense, we propose the creation of a technical table to advance in these lines of work. Allow me to make a very quick crossing of this reciprocity. You made reference to the Balearic Islands and the Valencia Country. It is clear that we celebrate as a very good news the return of reciprocity in the case of the Balearic Islands. In this case, in Catalonia, therefore, we can see again the IB3 broadcasts since the 15th of April, there a little before, the different channels of Television of Catalonia. You know that we came from that reciprocity agreement, that of 2009, which was broken and which, finally, we were able to recover. Also, in the case of the Valencia Country, in the last meeting of the two presidents, President Ximo Puig and the president of Catalonia, the clear intention to recover this pact, once formally constituted the corporation of the Valencian radio and television, became clear. And, in this sense, we will facilitate reciprocity from a formal agreement between all two governments and we want and are working actively so that it is well-awaited, from..., as soon as possible, the coming year, 2017. We can talk about other areas where we are also working, with joint information; for example, the southern part of Catalonia, the northern part of Valencia, also with Aragó... You have made a specific reference to the Delegation of Northern Catalonia, and I have had occasion to prove that you also raised questions from your parliamentary group, effectively, to the later Committee of Control of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Media. As the director of TV3 responded in this case, so we understand that the solution and the new model of territorial coverage to which it has come is satisfactory. In this sense, we are convinced that the information guarantee is there. It's true that we come from a great team. I'm also doing this recon on the previous team. But I believe that this information guarantee is still being maintained. And this shows, from a quantitative point of view, the news media, but also qualitatively. He has never failed to inform himself or to inform himself of the reality of this territory. And we understand, I insist, that coverage exists; another thing is that we would like to strengthen it. And, therefore, and in this sense, in the same way that in other correspondents or with other spaces we can speak, too, of the Catalan News Agency as a space in which we clearly also bet because there is this coverage, at the time that this, the presuppositionary mark... – which, as you know, is absolutely complicated, and you know it perfectly well, so – at the time that this is possible, I don't think we would like to keep it. We do not conceive of our country without this space of communication in Catalan, without the key role, in this case, of TV3, or of Catalonia Radio – a public sector that is vital. We... I don't think you've ever heard of TV3 or Catalunya Radio in our mouths as it is not in terms of television and radio in the country, television and national radio. It is obvious that this adjective can also be attributed to others..., surely, other media, but the bet of the Government of Catalonia is clear in this sense. You bet and asked in a very schematic way, which I appreciate, the three elements that I understand will be part, therefore, of the content of the motion that will be presented from this calendar of reciprocity and complementation of this space. I assure you that we are working, that political will is there and that efforts are being made. He was talking at a_second point about the emissions that can cover, so all the contents. I remind you that these contents are subject to right. Do not forget this element: they are subject to right. And this explains, for example, that not all contents, for example, of IB3, as it now refers to the Balearic Islands, not all contents arrive in Catalonia, although this reciprocity agreement is restored and we are working very intensively. And I was also talking about this paper... – we have to..., I understand we have to define or we have to talk about it, maybe, a little more, don't we? – from the role of entities, beyond the role of governments that can, therefore, also contribute to it. In any case, in this first intervention, I wanted to give this global response to its installation, I insist, from the most sincere, but also predisposed defense of our Catalan audiovisual communication space.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.61.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the word Mr. Botran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.62.0	Okay. Thank you, Counselor. Indeed, there are some aspects in which you have direct competences: they are the ones that I have tried to set up and I have outlined; others, they are the fruit of political negotiation, and, obviously, the rights of emission are also. We can sit down with those who have these broadcasting rights and agree which way TV3 could offer them in the set of territories on the top, and not bring international television to Valencia and the islands, but the same television that we see here. On the margin of what we have direct competence with or can negotiate it politically, there is the question of the contents, which is obviously not a direct competence of the government, but of the direction of television and public radio, but that we also want to take advantage of this forum, therefore, to make them worth it. One thing is that the signal comes from a television and a radio in Catalan, which is important, it's vital, as I said, right? But the other thing is that there is a television and radio that reflects the different social and territorial realities of these territories, and that therefore calls the people from there, the potential radios and the potential viewers for their reference television, right? There are few spaces in which the reality of Catalan Countries is reflected. An exception was the space of time, but with Catalonia's North, you also don't see the historical camera focusing on the Castle of Perpinyà, for example, to pose a question of imagination. There's time. There was the program, so, German Cosins, that made his paper. But then a store, for example, like Divendres, which was characterized because one of its sections had this itinerary for the territory, so it came out once from the territory of the four narrow provinces, didn't it? , to go to Andorra. But tell us that, having visited hundreds of municipalities, they could have made a combination of linguistic areas. Not to talk about a lot of other deployments that could be done, right? , as territorial disconnections, if they rise, as in the case of Catalonia Nord. Let's go further, even further, to regain the co-responsibility. We are thinking that there may be a territorial disconnection determined in terms of information for the territories of Northern Catalonia, or to count with more collaborators of the territories of the Catalan Countries in the entertainment or opinion programs of public television and radio, right? I believe, we believe, that this is the only way to overcome the distorted image that sometimes above the Valencian, Mallorcan or Northern Catalonian societies, because there was a moment when it seemed only to be connected with València because there were scandals of corruption, or with Mallorca, so to explain the tourist invasion, and then, suddenly and again, the Catalan society, the strict Catalonian society, is surprised when the PP was forced, the result of a great social and popular movement, which was there, that was lived, but that we did not know, right? That too, therefore, is a duet of our public channels, because we are a linguistic community, but not just a linguistic community, we are a reality of struggles that contain the work of social transformation, and these contents should also be incorporated into our public channels, right? , as well as popular culture, for example, that here we are proud that it is vital and very anxious in the territory, but in the case of the Valencia Country it is so much more. To put, therefore, just a few examples. And finally the aspect that you, counsel, treated as..., has named it, therefore, as a "technical table to study a greater coordination of this space. We are fully in agreement and think, therefore, that it is necessary to point out clearly not only a technical table, but also the need for the strategic unit of this communication space in Catalan. The future, therefore, that awaits us is still of more accelerated changes and more plurality of offer in the audiovisual field, and we will only survive, we will only generate contents of interest if we are strong enough to make them good, of quality and reach the maximum audience possible. And, therefore, this unity between the whole community of Catalan Countries, of potential viewers and potential producers, creators, etc., of contents is a need that has to be planted since then. Therefore, in this line our demands will be guided, in the line of where we have direct competence, in the line of also sailing for more plural and more difficult contents in the conjunction of Catalan Countries, and also in the face of the future in this strategic unitary need of the audiovisual space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.63.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.64.0	Yes; thank you very much. Thank you, Congressman. Indeed, we are a community of many struggles, of different realities, and it is obvious that we must continue to work in this line, also from the highest respect, right? , for the rhythms of each of the territories and the political priorities of the different Catalan speaking territories. But I agree that we need to reactivate this unit and that the different governments need to be able to agree, and I believe that the bases are set in many aspects, to create these mechanisms of collaboration to which reference is made, between the televisions and public radios of the Catalan speaking communication space. And in this sense the layout that you did before and that you have also collected from this technical table – let's say as you wish – is to start, therefore, to actually put on the table many of the questions that have gone out of this question. It's obvious that when I first refer to the rights that exist over the different contents, this is the object of political negotiation, but in the same way, therefore, it implies existence, right? , two different visions that we need to work on so that they can merge into some type of agreement that allows us to extend the possibility of spreading certain contents. I do not think we can now move forward with events, but in any case, we can improve the quantity of contents. You were talking about the need not only to recover correspondents, etc. I'm gonna say it again, huh? – I think I have commented on this before, when we were talking about the delegation of Catalonia North – the regulatory framework is complex, the budgetary framework has been and continues to be complex, but in any case, we are the parent, from the government, and I think we have said it on different occasions, that whenever it is possible and as soon as it is possible we need to strengthen all the delegations – when all of them are all, right? But on the diffusion of reality, of the different realities, better said, of the territories of Catalan speaking I think that there is an important element that we have not considered before, that you have to see, therefore, with the presence of journalists, for example, Valencians or illencs in different programs of our public media, that I believe they also perfectly help to spread these different realities and to put them at the home of each of the citizens who follow the programs of the radio and the public television of Catalonia. I have made a very brief mention of the Catalan News Agency, but if it allows me now to place it, because this will to strengthen the Catalan space I believe that it has also been clearly reflected in the strategic line that is due to the end of the Catalan News Agency, as everyone knows, also of public title, an information tool that, whenever the budgetary resources have allowed it, has also found correspondents more beyond the territories strictly of the Principality of Catalonia. You know that today you have a correspondent in Valencia, and also here – also here – the goal is to be able to reinforce this paper. In any case, honourable Member, I would like to thank you for all your inquiry, the construction, with which, therefore, we agree. I believe that the work is started, the political will exists, the detection of possible difficulties both from a political point of view and from a presuppositionary point of view we also have detected them, but believe 'that there is a clear will of this Government, and I believe that if we also refer to the public manifestations of the heads of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation is absolutely shared, to continue working and strengthening this common Catalan space. And I am convinced that we can find – and I hope so – space too, therefore, to reach agreement in the proper negotiation of the motion that you presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.65.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the Government's action in the fight against climate change]] [[300-00099/11]] The fourteen points of the order of the day is: inquiry on the action of government in the fight against climate change, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. To expose it has the word Lord Ferran Civit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.66.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counselor, advisors, it seems that the weather for the climate change has arrived, it has arrived the time that we begin to face it, however often, as you know, we have many reptes that have been increasing day by day. For a band, you know, therefore, that the United States has been chosen to chair a climate change negator; I guess I don't have to say the name, because yesterday itself looked like the parliamentary papers Donald Trump, because I almost every game when I made an intervention. And the other thing is the fact that we have a Spanish state that doesn't owe respect. And this is one of the great challenges that we have pending, first, because right now we can't go to the Spanish State or the United States, but we do have to stay in Morocco, in Marrakesh, that we have a whole find, right now, to speed up, by different states of the United Nations, the Paris agreements. All this, as you know, is done from Paris with agreements that are down, because when it generates consensus it's always down, but the goal of this finding is to speed up all agreements once and for all and, if possible, to make them more ambitious. In Catalonia you don't see your own, in Catalonia you can't make your contributions to the country you are. Now, of the dues that we agree there, we must be the most applied at the time to carry it to term; to carry it to term, to throw it forward, to do it effectively, and, if possible, to be the best students to make it possible with the theme of climate change. We have the obligation to be so, so many of the skills we have as we want to assume in our own months, because that's what it's all about. Because, on the other hand, the Spanish State seems to want to be the last in Europe to do its dues, so much..., already the recognition for what it does in Kosovo, already with the theme of the declaration of Paris, because the Spanish State, I remember that it has not yet signed the declaration of Paris ; surely it will come true that they were, as you know, working, but now they are not, and that can be done once and for all. In the same way that we know, therefore, that they have an entire legal predisposition from the previous government, a whole legal action, in which they have always gone to stop everything that has been the self-consumption, the democratization of energy, also above all to guarantee the benefits and interests of the energetic oligopolies. There's been this little predisposition. But it is that, moreover, with the facts too, they refer to the fact that the Spanish State is the third European country, the third European country for which, in this case, it has done less dues on the issue of emission reductions. And in this case it is at the podium, because it is the third European country that has increased its emissions the most; concretely, since the year 1990, a 17.54_per_cent. And the obligation you have as a state to place 120_million euros for the Green Climate Fund..., it has only put 1_million. If they do the numbers they'll see that of 120, so that's a lot less than a 1_per_cent. And, in addition, one more risk that we have here, such as being Spanish, must be taken into account. We have not done our dues as Spanish for the European commitments of 20-20-20 and, as you know, we also have the useful lives of nuclear power stations, that of seven of the eight nuclear power stations we have here in the Spanish State, casually, between 20 and 21 the useful lives of these nuclear power stations ended. And what a coincidence it will be, then, that, like we haven't done our dues with renewables, what we're going to do is we're going to pull the nuclear out. And it seems to me that we're going to have to change it, do we, Mrs. Grau? Because the only thing that needs to be renewed is the impulse of renewables, this is the only thing we need to do, because, if not, we will not only not have done our dues, we will not only extend the useful lives of nuclear power, but we will have a hundred and a thousand years to "enjoy among all the folds of nuclear waste that we will have to conserve, for which we will have to age, and, more importantly, we will have to do it with public assumptions that we will have to cut off education, sanitation and infrastructure. And that's what I'm thinking, too, Mrs. Grau, I'm sure you'll agree with me that we don't have to, and more with public money. And, moreover, what is curious is that, while we do not do our dues – in this case I do speak as the city of the Spanish State that I am still – to the United Kingdom, where there is rain, where there is drunk, they have put seventy times more – I repeat, seventy times more – more solar photovoltaic energy than the Spanish State. Rescued countries that have practically failed during these years of crisis, such as Portugal or Greece, have done more dues and work much better on these issues than the Spanish State. Because the Spanish State cannot always function before the climate change, the Spanish State must start changing. But we don't have to wait for the Spanish State to start doing its dues either. We, like Catalonia, must begin to do so; counsel, as you know, we are an autonomous community, but even though we are still more community than autonomy, we must begin to do so. In addition, we are beginning to design this model that we want for this Catalan Republic, which is a renewable energy model, a model where the different sectors that are non-generic emission sources and, in addition, a much more democratic model. Let us learn from countries like Denmark, in which citizen participation in the promotion of renewable energies is appropriate and very important, which also generates balance and territorial consensus. Let us learn from Norway or the Netherlands, in which from 2025 they will ban internal combustion vehicles. Denmark too – back to Denmark – have a 3.6_percent environmental tax. Or Germany, and as far as nuclear power is concerned, which has already been compromised by these dates of 2025 to take full advantage of the production of nuclear energy for renewable energy. Or, last but not least, since we have mentioned it before, also from Portugal: in Portugal, different days at the length of the past year, they have supplied a hundred_per_cent of renewable energies. Or a country that in income levels is very far from what the Spanish State or the same Catalonia is, which is Costa Rica: in Costa Rica the 100_per_cent, not to say practically 99 per cent, of its electricity is produced by hydropower, geothermal and wind power. The volunteerism of businesses and families has run out. It is time, Mr. Counsellor, therefore, for the Government to take the lead, to set an example, to encourage the paradigm shift with new product models, with new energy models, all 100 per cent renewable and with a much more democratic model. And, besides, creating a productive sector that we don't have right now. Here, of the few initiatives that have taken place since the outbreak of the crisis, and also of actions that have gone against precisely this paradigm shift..., they have made that here in Catalonia we basically have a product desert. If we want, for example, to have a battery accumulator at home, so, either we buy the famous Solar City Tesla or we have to go buy it from Puçol, the Valencia Country, which is from the Ampere company. We need to start changing the product model, we need to start changing the paradigm, and that means electric mobility, both public and private. That if we have to duplicate infrastructures, which are railways, which, as we know, provide a deficit service, now, because of the lack of investment from the Spanish State and, more importantly, they must provide more service to the citizenry, and more quality and, above all, more punctuality. That no residue ends in incinerators or avocators, because they emit gases of winter effect. That we enter the cycle of the circular economy, in the same way, therefore, that we have the primary sector, taking advantage of the fact that we have here the agricultural councillor, that we must not only retain the people of the territory, that we must generate wealth in the territory and that we must provide the food sovereignty that we all need as the country, but also that we promote the circular economy with all the residues that they generate and that, logically, we do not follow a font of half in the different areas. Or that the factories or the housings, in order to produce energy for electricity, or to scald or to produce, that neither are emitters. And logically, too – and here we have to lay our dues too, starting to set an example – that all public buildings in this country, or that the fleet of vehicles, therefore, operate one hundred_per_cent in a renewable way. We have to start pedaling with the country. The leading initiates presented for this councillor, therefore, have gone in this line. There is the Advance Bill of Climate Change, which some here, in some places, in this chamber; also the National Pact for the Energy Transition that is being developed; the reports on climate change, which is now the third, or the same Climate Change Office, which already has a certain trajectory, such as the Council Counsellor, also of Sustainable Development. But, as is logical, and this will also consider, counselor, so we need to increase the pedaling because, if not, we will not be doing the Tourmalet. And this Tourmalet, and let's stop pedaling, we'll get him out of the way. We are in an impact society, and in this case of impact of winter-effect gases, with all the variety, that there is a large enough spectrum, while people only think that there is CO2, but there is much more, like half and hydrofluorocarbons. And this impact company needs an impact tax. It needs a model, which is now carbon, that becomes carbon neutral. The old model has to finance the new paradigm, this new paradigm has to arrive as soon as possible. And for that, counselor, we have a lot of fingers hanging. This government must not only make the national transition, it must make the transition of the new paradigm. Let us finish the whole list; here, in Parliament, let the departments assume as their own the strategies to combat climate change, and let us take advantage of the fact that from this small group of worlds, that we are only 7.5 million inhabitants in a world population of more than 7,000 inhabitants, as Barcelona, since it is not in the list of these great cities of climate change, such as the Kyoto, Copenhagen, Paris and Marrakesh agreements, which Barcelona and Catalonia have, although it is not in the list of these great cities, but rather in the form of an example that we, when we are still in the country, can offer it, when we have a hundred or so members of the United Nations – if, as we do not agree on this, then we take the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the example of the fact that we remember, which we are still know that we are not, but that we can still know that we are still know that when we are that we are still know that we are in the reason that the reason that we are not that we are not in the reason that we can' This must be Catalonia's contribution to the fight against climate change, because we have a free country, but not just a democratic free country, not a political free country, but also a free country in carbon and nuclear. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.67.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Civit. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.68.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member – here, now I did not find it, let's say – thank you for this question that we agreed to do between the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for the Yes and the Government, putting in value what is being done at these times in Marraqueix, which is COP22. After a historic agreement, in these times threatened after what happened yesterday in the United States, after the historic agreement in Paris, in which the standards are set, now COP22 is to be able to establish the mechanisms to make it possible that what was agreed in Paris is viable, and with some terms of international governance, and with a very interesting concept, that is the name and shape, that is being discussed at these times in Marraqueix, that means the ability to assign us, all, when the commitments we have reached are not fulfilled, and this is also a very substantial change of layout. In fact, his intervention was in this line. We take responsibility, we want to lead and we are prepared that, if we don't do things reasonably well, we don't want to. Because this is the subject in capital letters. And forgive the force, but this is the subject in capital letters at the country level and the subject in capital letters at the humanity level, at the planet level. And we must be able to move it, with this force, to our fellow citizens. When we talk about sustainability, we want to see what kind of country and planet we leave to our children, and that they are a viable country and a viable planet. We're talking, basically, about this. The climate change is no joke. The impact of climate change is already affecting the daily life of this country in a very direct way. Now... last week, we had a fire in the Alt Pirineu Natural Park, in the Pallars Sobirá, a fire in the natural park, exactly. And that was an unheard of thing. Talk about climate change from a point of view of agricultural exploitations, talk about climate change to the lands of the Jews and they will answer them exactly what it means to change climate and what it means to change climate in the delta of the Jews. We're talking about this and it already exists. I highly appreciate it, Mr. Member, that you have taken over the most important countries, and here I am doing a collective reflection that I would like to share with you. He spoke of Denmark, he spoke of Norway. Allow me – I already know that it is little orthodox that I will do now – but explain to them an anecdote that I explain often. I saw her on July 4th in the Console of the United States. They invited us, some Member of this House was there, and I had the opportunity to talk to various members of the consular body, and I had the opportunity to talk to the Danish Council, and the Danish Council was perplexed by the empty situation of government in the Spanish State. With a very respectful attitude, however, he said: "Escultiti, nous, nous, in our country, explained to me "that we are able to do so – whether it is for a constitutional mandate or for a legal mandate, I do not remember exactly what the planting was – "to make debates of generational abst every five years. Every five years, the Danish Parliament is gathered, debates are held and agreements are reached that must take effect for twenty years, a generational term, which means that governments that govern during this period, in strategic matters, are capable of maintaining a certain line of transformation. And in everything that makes reference to the bioeconomy, which is the new repte that they put on the table, from a point of view of energetic model, from a point of view of sustainable development, this is the key. And we have a very good instrument that is the Climate Change Bill Project. Remember when we did the debate in consideration, the debate in totality, we said and we underlined that this was a starting point. The law of climate change is at your hands, at the hands of 135 Members of Parliament, and we should be able to stick to this law with this generational vision. We should be able, like the country, to establish some standards of the game, a strategic vision that was lasting over time, governments that ruled this country. This is the long-range vision that we have to be pitfalls to face. When Norway, for example, is raised – which is a spectacular challenge – that year 25, let's say, there has been no more commercialization of internal combustion cars, this is an option not to make the government turn, but to make the country in its conjunction. This is the idea and this is the strategic idea. At the general level, it was done in Paris, in a situation that is extraordinarily advantageous for Kyoto. In Kyoto it was more than eight years before the Kyoto Protocol could enter into force; we were less than a year old because the Paris agreements could enter into force. So what they know at the general level we have to be able to plant it at the level of Catalonia. And the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for the 2020-2030 horizons we've defined and we've already set them as Catalonia. We have positive elements and negative elements. Positive elements, a positive fact, that makes us have a hopeful vision: Catalonia has reduced the emissions by 26_per_cent compared to the year 2005. But there's a part of this emission reduction that's given to a strictly conjunctural factor, which is the economic crisis, huh? And so there is a structural part that we have been able to do well with the country, but we have a part that is conjunctural: the effects of the economic crisis have directly called into question industrial activity and mobility; less mobility, less winter gas. And now that we're getting out of the economic crisis again, this is very well known in mobility, you see it, and you see it. Also good news, and bad news. The good news is that these first eight months of the year we have struck the historical record of public transport usage in this country; the bad news is that at the level of private mobility we are still below the highest levels that came before the crisis. The latest emission data in Catalonia in 2014 is up to 13, and they point out that there was an increase of 0.48_per_cent. Therefore, we must be able to make a very powerful effort in this sense. Ethical bet and economic bet, and the basic idea is what you meant, which is a product model change and an energy model change. And we have to explain to the people of this country, and that is not just the government, but the joint parliament, we have to explain to the people of this country that the stake for the environment, for sustainable development, for the circular economy is a hundred_per_cent competition in all orders: ethic, environmental, social, economic, productive. Everything. And so, this is the real revolution that we need to be able to set up: innovation in the best of environmental management, added value, creation of quality jobs and generating jobs to make efficient and responsible use of energy and other natural resources, which means reducing marginal costs. Jeremy Rifkin, some of you have had the opportunity to attend a memorable conference that made the guest for the Diplomacy, in Sant Cugat del Vallès. This is the line and this is the line of work. And now we, with the country, are going to Marrakesh, and we're not going to make observers, but we're going to make a wake, are we? In the best sense of the terminus. Explain that we have clear ideas, that we want more instruments of self-government, but we have clear ideas in this sense. And I finish this first part of the intervention by collecting the contributions made by the deputy and putting in value what Catalonia is doing at the international level. We, just half a year ago, were co-residents of the global network of regional governments for sustainable development, Energy for SD, during the last six years, and we have released the replenishment to Flanders, and we have marked a positive position, and at these times we are global co-residents of the Climate Group, of the alliance of states and regions grouping governments and companies committed to the fight against climate change, and presiding over Europe a few weeks ago. America presides over Quebec, Europe presides over us, Oceania presides over South Australia. We have an important role to play and, therefore, we are not going to Marrakesh to make observers – we are going this weekend – but to lead this proposal. What shall we explain? That we, if we want, can be the Netherlands or Denmark or Sweden or Finland of southern Europe, which we are willing to take on this challenge. Therefore, the law of climate change, which is at their hands, can be this instrument with generational vision. Let's think what we think about the current political context, we have an obligation for ethical responsibility, if we can use those terms, in relation to what they will come after us. Thank you, honourable Member, for having raised this question, and on the second hand what I would like to be able to get into more detail of which is the concrete action of the Government in these...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.69.0	Counselor, you've run out of time. There's a word from Mr. Ferran Civit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.70.0	Thank you, counselor, for your intervention and for your explanations. Last week, the Medi Ambient Commission, casually, so, we visited, with members from here, from this room, we also visited with different assemblies of the round of which was petrochemistry and also a platform, we visited what was all the petrochemical complex of Tarragona. And speaking with the direction of that company, I was very surprised by the fact that the paradigm shift, from little to little, fell to all the spheres of society, to everything they see from the old paradigm, or so, from the old paradigm business. I was surprised that some directives already told me, he said: "No, no, I bought myself a hybrid car. No, no, I have a hybrid car, but if I have to buy after another car I'll buy an electric vehicle. And that's what I think is that little by little between all folds we have to start taking over as a society, as a parliament, as a government, as a whole. Because as a society that has an impact, we have to assume the consequences of our actions, we have to assume that there is a double comptability: not just the famous one of the duty and having it, right? , to see if we can square the numbers, but environmental comptability, social comptability, labor comptability. Because everything we do generates externalities that we have to assume as our own, as our society, as our economy, as our government, to reduce the impact. Because all that means, in this case, therefore, for example, to operate with an oil system, with a coal system, as you know, therefore, to the vast majority of countries of the world where there are conflicts, is because there are these first things that are in dispute for different regional, local and territorial powers. And, if we change the paradigm, we'll certainly also help with the stability and peace of these countries. I, more than that, considering, so... For example, on the other day, they compared the Catalan process with a dictatorship like Saudi Arabia, so surely if we stopped buying it oil from Saudi Arabia would not have the strength it has, so to have this theocratic state in which the rights of women or homosexuals do not have any force. That is why it is very important – and I am sure, therefore, that now in the next explanation, in the next reply, will explain it – the importance of this paradigm shift, the importance of the tasks that are beginning to be done, but above all the urgency of the things that we need to start doing and that are imperative. Because if we don't do this, it won't just be as bad as it is in the country, it won't just be the issue of GDP, but it will also be because of water availability, it will be because of the fact that the costs, for example, of the Maresme, so, surely, we can no longer enjoy the landings as they used to be. Or we'll be talking about the Ebre Delta, so maybe we won't have it anymore because, one, it won't go down that much water for rivers; two, it'll rise the sea level, and logically with temperatures also fire risks will rise across the country. That's why it's very important that we, like Catalonia, are still this hare, that we all wear our hare clothes, start running and that there's not a little bit like the hare and turtle, that the hare is falling asleep, the hare is waiting, that we'll do it tomorrow – we'll do it tomorrow –; altogether, the turtle was very slow... The hare has to start walking, it has to start running, because the turtle will get there. And, if the turtle wants to be the Spanish State, there they are, and then the injured are all folded up. We have the responsibility to be lukewarm, to start running, to start "squeezing, and, our model, that following the Catalan contribution to the world; that this paradigm shift, this intensity in the model change, this will on the part of all actors, of the citizenry, of the government, of the productive sectors – cooperatives, enterprises – or of any sector of this country, accelerate this process. Catalonia has to make the change, and this change has to be to fight the climate change. That's why it's very important that this government leader, that this government empathizes with the consequences of the climate change on the planet and that it's a referent. It's very important and it's in our hands. Therefore, many thanks and forward, Mr. Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.71.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Civit. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.72.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Deputy, us April, and as in the government, we signed the Paris agreement. Obviously, it has a symbolic character, but we wanted to act with effects, with a state mindset, with all the consequences. I spoke to the Minister of the Environment a little while ago, and I questioned her in a committee, which, of course, yesterday the Citizens' Group asked us to attend these committees or sectoral conferences. I experienced, if I may... I recently went to one of these conferences; I had an intervention at a forum in Madrid, and I took advantage of it that I was in Madrid to go there, to see exactly what it was. This... there is theoretically the Ministry of Environment, in this case, with all its staff, and the autonomous communities. There were six autonomous communities– six autonomous communities–, there was no leader of the People's Party, cap; there was no Autonomous Community of Madrid. In fact, it will be the last time that, while there is the Government of Junts for the Yes, we go to a conference of these characteristics; simply, because it does not serve absolutely to re– to re. It's terrible, it's unfortunate, for the king. Here we fixed the joint position in the European Council of Environment. Medi Ambiente de les Balears Councillor, which compacted the position of the autonomous communities, asked to be able to intervene in Brussels, in the council, and the answer is: "Here no one intervenes, here only the State intervenes. Just fix yourself up for what they're serving, huh? These commissions. I asked the minister and said, "Well, why has the Spanish State not yet signed the Paris agreement? He says: "Simply, because we are with a functioning government. But the Parliament was not working, and the Spanish Parliament had the will, it had the capacity to subscribe to it. Simply, there was no political will to do so. That's the theme, and that's the theme. In Marráqueix – this is important – I think we have to conjure up all of us – European states, states of the rest of the world, ourselves, like Catalonia – not to complain about what happened in these last elections to the United States. Scientifically it is unquestionable that there has been climate change – it is unquestionable – and, therefore, more than regret, we must take initiatives and strengthen the position of the planet's joint. That's the basic idea. Meanwhile, what are we doing? You, MP, refer to the reports we are preparing around the Climate Change Office in Catalonia, which is an authentic state structure in this sense. We will now be presenting the third report on climate change, which has a whole series of concrete measures. But the key element is the energy and product model change. And here we do have a little problem we all have, huh? , and they have the conjunct of citizens of the Spanish State, with the Government of the Spanish State, which is not that it is not compromised with these policies linked to renewable energies, but that they make decisions just in the opposite direction. It is unheard that in these moments there is an imposition, a tribute that weighs the self-consumption of renewable energies, is simply unheard of; it is unheard that the game's standards are changed at the same time. Before you said there was a little production in this sense. It is that the production sector there was absolutely devastated by an incomprehensible decision of natural politics from this perspective. The energy model change or we can not get out. But while we, with the limited tools we have, make a very clear bet at the public transport level, and also for the electric car, for the electric vehicle. And explain..., and we have companies that act in Catalonia that make a very clear bet in this sense. In fact, the Department of Enterprise, from the hand of Councillor Baiget, has raised a very important reversal in points of recharging in this sense. We too, like the Department of Lands and Sustainability, are drawing a network of green infrastructure across the territory – this is also very important – and making the economic sectors more resilient to the effects of climate change. Or the proposal to create a market of emission rights on non-regulated sectors such as those that have been able to do, among them, fix themselves, states of Australia, California, Ontario and Quebec. It's unheard of that between them and us internally, at the level of the Spanish State, we can't do that. This is the approach – I finish, Madam President –: we can lead an authentic revolution at the planetary level. Modestly, if we're on condition to do it, do it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.73.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into fiscal policy]] [[302-00078/11]] The 15th item on the agenda is the following question to the Government on fiscal policy presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Ms. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.74.0	Good morning, President. Thank you. Vice President, good morning. I would like to greet some students who are accompanying us this morning, who, if they have not informed me badly, are with the tax law office; this motion on fiscal policy, I hope you are interested. Anyway, we always do that because we care about the citizens, don't we? All we do is do it just for that and to improve the conditions; but, ultimately, I hope that you will come with an extra and an added value. Well, as I said, the Socialist Group asked the president fifteen days ago to call for a change in our country's fiscal policy. We are in many years of a glaring economic crisis, which has generated many inequalities and degrees of very high child poverty, and we believe that the Government of the Generality has tools enough to improve and change this situation. And it can do so from policies that are more inverse, expensive, with public policies that are valid in the social or educational or health fields, but also with the policy of entry; i"in the policy of entry it means to change the tax policy, that is to say to modify some taxes that we believe they have the margin to obtain more entrances. And not only to get more tickets and to be able to make the policies we want to reverse, but also because we have to, we should have a more just and more progressive tax system, in which we ask for efforts from those who have more. And precisely, in our years of crisis, to whom we are demanding the most effort is to middle and working classes, to lower classes, and it seems to us a flagrant injustice. That is why, so insistently, it is true, the Socialists are asking a lot of times in this chamber that fiscal policy is being changed here. We don't have much success, we have to say it too, but that's what we do. The motion we are presenting today, therefore, does not fail to make proposals precisely in this line: to change the fiscal policy to get more tickets, because it is more fair, because we ask for efforts to the one who has the most... I therefore have some concrete taxes. It's a clear question to the government, it's a clear question to Junts for the Yes, to see if there's really any intention to change, it's a desire to change this fiscal policy and go to ask more of those who have more. A few weeks ago, I told you, there was a day that organized the Poor Zero platform on fiscal policy. They call upon us, the parliamentary groups, to make this change in fiscal policy, and they call upon us clearly. I'd like to know what the government thinks of this inquiry, because it was important and interesting what they were asking of us. We, who have seen tax policy motions in the past, obviously do not take place in this chamber because Together for the Yes end up voting the same as the People's Party, and this sum and this pair and this marriage do not give rise to major changes in fiscal policy; we are concerned, because you do not put them on the side of the Poor Zero platform, put them on the side of the right, of the Spanish right, also of the Catalan right, because obviously you know who your allies are. And we'd like to know, now that we're in the pre-press... that so much good is coming soon, because we also have to tell you that we have an approximate date around November 15th; November 15th is already and the assumptions are not coming. I suppose they're spending a lot of time negotiating in Juntes for the Yes, and so is the CUP. Why, of course, is the question clear: where are you located? On the side of the CUP and the Poverty Zero platform and all those left-wing parties that demand a change in fiscal policy, or are you on the side of the People's Party? Are we going to approve this young man today, or are we not going to approve him because you're going to put another round next to the People's Party? Because this alliance is a solid, very solid alliance in fiscal policy. And, therefore, what we would like is to ask them to see if we change this policy once and for all. Because in the end fiscal policy says a lot of what country we want and says a lot of what company we want. And now that you are building a new country, it would be good for you to explain to the people who want to build: the one who is demanding the most efforts to whom you have, or the one who is asking the middle classes and workers more every day that they are passing through. Therefore, it is a clear question to the Government, again, yes, we are a little burdened, but again we ask and ask this question to know what you, who are supposed to submit to us, if you want more tickets to dedicate them to social policies that we so much need, or if you do not want to get more tickets modifying important taxes, such as estates, assets or the IRPF, that is where there really is the size, that is where you have actually been able to hold more than 1,000_million euros of entrances, for the head down. Is that it, or are we just going to change small taxes with what we get 5, 10, 11, 20_million euros? Because this is the chocolate of crying; important, but we want to change the taxes that allow us to enter hundreds of millions more, because this will enable us to improve the educational, health or social policy of this country. What's the status of this government? Where are you together for the yes? I told them: with the CUP, with the left parties, with the Poor Zero platform or, again, with the right or, again, with the People's Party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.75.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. To defend the papers presented, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.76.0	Well, thank you very much. In Catalonia, 20_percent of the most wealthy people are 5.8 times..., or they have more than 20_percent poorer. There's 20 percent of the population at risk of poverty. We could also talk, when we calculate this, about why this poor risk has decreased and how the way to calculate the poor risk index has changed over the last few years. And, therefore, the comparison between years is more difficult to make. And it's that, in the background, when we talk about taxation, what we have to do is talk about poor, unequal, about..., talking about these thousands of families out of the system. When we talk about poverty and inequality and we talk about taxation, we need to talk about sovereignty. On Tuesday, to the Commission for the Study of Measures against Corruption, the Platform's spokesman for a Fair Fiscality was compared and he stated that, at present, in the globalized international mark that we are living, it is impossible to talk about fiscal sovereignty. And, actually, that's right, isn't it? We know perfectly well what the European Union does, how it works, how the markets work and how it is the same regulation of the markets or deregulation of the markets, which causes us to oscillate and modify taxes so as to, presumably, maintain the economy. And it's that we add: it's not that in the international market fiscal sovereignty is impossible, it's capitalism that prevents us from eradicating inequalities and talking and working for the construction of sovereigns. And that's what we find ourselves in. And it is in this framework that we do understand that, despite the fact that no one in this chamber wants to address the necessary debate about what to do to redistribute wealth and how we can guarantee the rights of all, because, for us, the way would happen because public servants were public in truth and because we guarantee that it was managed, owned and provided by all public servants was actually public and not in the hands of private companies. And that this was the way to give access to everyone. We understand that this fund debate is not meant to have, therefore, we understand that the only way we have to start working is to start talking about tax reform. That's why we're giving support to this young man, but we think he's clear of a lot of things, and we're sorry that these things are heard. Because, in the background, when we talk about tax reform, if we don't go to the great theorists of social democracy, when they talk about what the function of taxes is, they talk about ensuring the sustainability of public spending, reducing the inequality and the absolutely necessary and countercyclical role that taxes have to play in order to avoid future crises and, therefore, to promote a model or a sustainable economic system, not as we now have. But it is that, moreover, this motion, for us, obvious the centralism of the Spanish State, obvious that in the current legal framework of the Spanish State it is impossible to make a tax reform of funds, that we do not stay with the wreaths, managing misery, managing the absolutely limited margins of autonomy subordinated to political courts, like the Constitutional Court, that at each tax..., plays to suspend it. So we understand that in this case we are dealing with a part of these taxes, of this limited autonomy that they leave us, but we need to go much further. And, therefore, we regret that the need for a debate around us, as we organize ourselves and how we actually work to achieve not only national sovereignty but, in this case, fiscal sovereignty and economic sovereignty, will be the only way we will be able to ensure that this tax reform works for the sustainability of public spending, redistribute wealth and, therefore, reduce inequality and actually work for this anticyclical paper and to guarantee an economic system that respects the rights of all. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.77.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word Ms.Carmina Castellví, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.78.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. Well, Mrs. Romero has already said, let's go back to it with the same old man – where is he? I don't see her... there, now, I don't see you. What the PSC presents today provokes me a vu deja vu, I mean, since all the points that include this young man have already been voted on various occasions in this House, the last in the general policy debate, where the Socialist Group and the Catalonian Group Yes, it is possible to present a motion for a resolution on taxation in which these same points and others are included, right? It also dealt with the same issues in the ensuing debate by the Socialist Group on the draft law on assumptions and the draft law on measures. And yes, indeed, Mrs Romero, on all these occasions these measures have been rejected with the votes of our parliamentary group. That's what the PSC is looking for when it repeats a second... after this very young man? The photo to do the tweet? We could take many photos of your parliamentary group voting together with the People's Party or with Ciutadans, against social measures or against the process. And, unfortunately, we will soon see the Congress of Deputies as the socialists allow to approve details worth 5,500 million euros or more in the assumptions of the PP and Ciutadans. And this is going to be a maca photo. Mrs Romero, I am particularly concerned about the 2.d point of your motion, relating to better environmental taxation. In the later Ple was presented the Bill of Urgent Changes in Tax Matters that included, among other things, the modification of the tax on the emission of nitrogen oxide to the atmosphere produced by commercial aviation. Strangely enough, the Socialist Group also voted against it. The fiscal, financial and administrative reforms and corrections, including environmental taxation, are carried out by the Government with the Law on Fiscal, Financial and Administrative Measures, the Law on the Monitoring of Presupposition, and Encany, this 2016, as it is known, has not been possible to approve it, once more, for the votes against, among others, of the Socialist Group. Notwithstanding this, last August, the Government approved the preliminary memory of the Advance Bill on the Medium-Environmental Risk of Production, Custody and Dispersion of Toxic Elements and it should also be remembered that the Climate Change Bill is in parliamentary process and includes the levy on rolling vehicles. And it is noted, therefore, the willingness to advance in environmental taxation on the part of our parliamentary group and the same government, to which it supports. We have submitted papers and have not accepted one, therefore, to thank also the willingness to go finding points of coincidence, and the others have unfortunately been rejected. There are other points of the motion respecting which we will vote in favour, such as improving the tax management of the empty housing tax and recovering the tax on bank deposits. A pending judgement of the Constitutional Court and the other that was already approved by the Catalan Government in December 2012. With regard to the tax on bank deposits, it should be remembered that the Spanish Government reacted by approving the same tax at zero rate, so that nothing is paid for this concept. A strafolaria measure that only protects the interests of the financial entities and deprives the Government of Catalonia of recapturing 500_million euros that, if it had been possible to enter, would have avoided the painful adjustments that it was necessary to apply to the departments as sensitive as Salut and Teaching. Look at us, if they really want a review of Catalonia's fiscal policy, help us to make it out of this new country that we're building. Stop trying to make changes to a Spanish tax system that is obsolete and that has retrograde effects, since only the workers pay and we create a new one close to Catalonia, more fairness, more redistribution and more solidarity. At the end and end, the measures that are proposed are pieces of a tax system in which we can only focus on secondary aspects and of which we do not have the skills to modify the essence of its foundational architecture. And, certainly, if these changes are adopted, in any case, the hypothetical results would be obtained in 2018. So, lords and lords, they're already independent. [[laughs and remorse of the eyes]] , for which they will no longer feel the make-up operations of the pac, of the Spanish tax system, that make us regular. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.79.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castellví. Then, to fix his position, has the words of Mr Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.80.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Vice-President and Counsellor of the Economy, ladies and gentlemen. It is also an honour and pride to have students of tax law who can listen to the debates on tax policy that are established in Parliament. Look, the position of Citizens in relation to the motion on taxation brought to us by the Socialist Party will be combined..., our position..., the abstention, the vote against and the vote in favour will be combined. Look, on the first point, they invite us, or rather, they want to urge the government to dialogue with all parliamentary groups. Look, I think it would be good, that it would be positive, that it would be desirable, that it would be good practice, but, after all, listen, you do whatever you want. If what they prefer is to dialogue exclusively with the CUP, then there they are. Look, they say – they say – that the result of that dialogue, what has been achieved is a sort of agreement on budgets based on imaginative taxes. But, look, I, honestly, of the tax imagination of Junts pel Yes, and especially of the CUP, we cannot expect anything other than to jump if the law and some tax misconception. We don't expect anything else, honestly. As for the aspects of taxation that are included in the motion, we believe..., that are addressed, sincerely, in a very superficial, very inconcrete way and, in some cases, even in an incorrect way. In Citizens we want to lower taxes on middle and low incomes, of course, we want to do it! And we're going to do it; we're going to do it through our own system, which is the guaranteed wage supplement. A salary supplement to which we put figures. Look, in the face of the motion's inconcretion, we'll give you figures. To give an example: a family with two members – with two members – that..., and with income of about 24,000 euros, that is, a mileurist income that has a child, not only will they not pay taxes, but they will receive – they will receive – 2,400 euros, that family and that year. Is there anything more progressive? Is there anything more determined about lowering taxes? Concretion in the face of indecretion. Not only with this measure will we lower taxes, but we will also make that mileurist salary increase, and we will make the tax really progressive. With regard to the inheritance and donation tax, you..., we want to redesign it, we want to reformulate that tax, but, look, honestly, not to collect more; you will see if the collection is more, is less or is the same. It is not the purpose to collect, it is to design the right. But, of course, in that redesign, which we think is necessary, what we want to be very clear is that it does not penalize families that have saved and invested to leave an inheritance to their children. We do not want that, and that many times, from what point of view, for in the end it is what is proposed to us. Naturally, we agree with the motion to eliminate and reduce bonuses and deductions. But we also think that other things need to be done, such as reducing kinship groups, also reducing tariffs... That is, there are many aspects in which there are changes that could be addressed. But it is that this motion does not address any of them, except that it is more serious to the great fortunes, always a bit a ethereal concept, rather difficult to achieve, right? , or at least that you have never made concrete. Well, they also want to change the property tax, they say, to tax the large estates more intensely. But here the first question that is raised is: but, listen, what is this great heritage? Where is the great heritage? And then what happens is that they have found support in the CUP which comes to say: "Look, the solution to this is to tax companies too. What a solution! The solution is worse than the problem. Look: here what would be achieved is a double, triple, imposition. Please think about it. It's just, really, at the hands of the CUP, they can only have enough..., what I used to say..., I don't know, is that I don't even want to qualify it anymore. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, what do we get from that measure? So decapitalize companies. This measure will decapitalize companies. And I want to put an end to a subject that you also raise and that I do not understand coming from your hand either. Let's see, get the bank deposit tax back. Do you not know Article 6.2 of the LOFCA? Do they not know that when the State has already imposed a tax on a subject, in this case on deposits, it cannot be taxed later? And that, moreover, precisely..., as a little bit was made at the end of 2012, it turns out that we are not even entitled to compensation. Why? Because it is made by decree rather than by law, the law to which we were bound by the Statute of Catalonia. The wrong things done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.81.0	Mr. Spiny, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.82.0	... wrong..., they appear. Therefore, how is it possible for you to want to recover a tax that you know is not possible to recover? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.83.0	Next, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.84.0	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for honoring us with your presence. Well, go ahead – I hope today is a quiet day – our vote in favour of the motion put forward for the Socialist Group, among other things because, as has already been stated, it is an approach that at some point we have taken together in the general policy debate and that we share. Let me tell you that this debate has taken place many times, Mrs Castellví, but sadly with little success, and not because you vote against it, but because the government, basically, ran away from studying, did not want to enter it. Run away from study – forgive me, Mr. Counselor, I have to quote you, eh? – when the counselor and his team are denied dialogue, even refuse to come. Today we have learned, for example, that the Secretary of Economy is refusing to compare to the Committee on Economic Affairs, despite the fact that we have done so, to account for the implementation of the 2016 assumptions. You have a sense of democratic respect for this rather complicated chamber. And, therefore, we have no choice but to insist on these developments, which, logically, we believe are important. You see, as the government doesn't want to explain what it's planning to do about tax reform, we need to read the communication media. And we note, if we have no case, that the Government is once again, one more year, prepared to give up important issues, such as the reform of the IRPF's Catalan tram, such as the reform of the estate tax, such as the reform of the estate tax. I told you yesterday: we are before a double irresponsibility. National, because it means renouncing fiscal sovereignty, competition, fiscal self-government, which we have, and it is also a social irresponsibility, in so far as it means renouncing a large part of the resources, which would be very good to us. Yesterday we learned from the mouth of Mr Puigdemont that the government renounces the two lives that could allow us in 2017 to have more resources to devote to social policies, that it does not intend to actively intervene in the negotiation of the model of autonomous financing, as if this was something that it could decide on behalf of all Catalans, and that it also turns out that it is not prepared to do tax reform. Look, I don't know which galaxy you're in. I can assure you one thing: the possible beneficiaries of guaranteed citizenship income are the same if you are in the post-autonomous cylinder or in the pre-Republican cylinder. Ms. Castellví, please, if 2018 is independent, that I do not put you in doubt, God 'look at me, why dilate your five years the application of guaranteed citizenship income? With 16,000 million more than we'll have when we're independent they can apply it to you by 2018! I'm listening, I'm not talking nonsense, I'm talking cheating. I'm sorry about that nonsense. I'm taking it back. Stop cheating on us all the time, because you don't even think about them anymore. I mean, we have one of the IRPF's most regressive autonomous tariffs in all autonomous communities. Catalans need to know that the least type that records lower returns is the highest of all autonomous communities, 12_per_cent, and while we have some types that record higher returns that are under, for example, autonomous communities such as Extremadura. We have room for this reform here. We have scope, not just to get more resources, but to make our tax system more progressive and redistributive, which is ultimately the object of taxation. We have at these times, in Catalonia, a situation in which the Catalan heritage ceases to raise 980_million euros each year as a result of which tax benefits are called. Well, some of these tax benefits have the full meaning of the world. We plant them keep them. For example, the exemption of the usual habitats up to 500,000 euros, and others, from this point of view. But there are some that are perfectly questionable and we want to discuss them, and between 980_millions of tax benefits and zero there is an important margin. Because I assume you know that at these times the presuppositional execution of the inheritance and donation tax falls at a rate of 10,5_per_cent relative to the previous year and that more often it produces an important drill in this recaptability. And this is something we want to discuss with you, normally, if you are worthy to accept the parliamentary dialogue with all of us. In Catalonia we have the possibility to charge more of the property tax, yes. You can say great fortunes or you can say high, but we have this opportunity to do so. And you don't want to do it. And I also read for the newspapers that in order not to do so they are willing to invent something ampuloso, like these dishes that they give to the restaurants of love and I can't, that the name is precious and when you see them it turns out that they have neither cool fish nor absolutely nothing. The deposit of great fortunes. Well, we'll see about that, won't we? But as far as he points out, all he points out is that, I insist, he'll have a better name than he can recap. I'm done. We will vote, we have already said..., but we believe that it is essential that once and for all we take this fiscal debate in depth and that the woman does not only condition political balances and the service of other legitimate interests, but the woman looking at the interests of this country's citizens. Above all, I would ask, if possible, the friends of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, with whom for a long time we have shared some of the plans of tax reform, that do not forget when they are to the government of what they had said for a long time when they were in opposition. And, above all, I would ask the whole chamber to apply that saying that "if possible, your left hand – the one who writes the speeches – "knows what your right hand does – the one who votes the assumptions. If that's possible, let's do it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.85.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Next, the words of Mr. Enric Millo, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.86.0	Very Honourable President of Parliament, Honourable Vice-President of the Government of the Generality, Members of Parliament, with regard to this motion of the Socialist Group, because it is clear what we are voting on this motion..., it has basically two points, it has two aspects. The first, which asks us to ‘open a dialogue process with all parliamentary groups, with a view to presenting the assumptions of the 2017 Generality. First point. According to the following point: « To present a tax reform project aimed at achieving a more just and progressive tax system that allows the generality to expand its tax resources. These are both aspects. Planted this way and written so, listen, this could make the most of, I think, all the groups in this room. Now, let's do a little bit of the detail, shall we? I mean, first point, no problem. I have already anticipated that the People's Parliamentary Group will vote enthusiastically in favour of the first point, because who would understand that the Government of the Generality does not want to open a dialogue process with all the groups before submitting the premise to seek the maximum consensus? What's going on is that you and I know, Mrs Romero, that asking the Junts government for the Yes is wasting time. This is a government that does not dialogue, that puts the dialog in the mouth all day and asks for the dialog of everyone, but they are the first ones that do not dialogue. They don't talk so much, but I venture you, Mrs Romero, that maybe they'll get to know each other before the communication media that we have of what is the content of this premise, or of the possible pact I think they've already reached with the CUP. Because this is the second view he wanted to make: the press tells us – I don't know if it's true or not, because like the government and the joints act with obscurantism and opacity... – that the UPC already has a precord closed with the bourgeois, nationalist, separatist, Catalan right. The CUP already has the pact locked with this right. [[Widow's remorse.]] Tea's already closed, isn't it? The CUP deals with the nationalist, bourgeois, sovereignist, Catalan right an agreement... [[Some applause.]] Count! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , as such. [[Rialles.]] I mean, they're done, huh? - You'll get it done, huh? To darken their butxaca, because what they really want is..., you know, what they want, they've already explained it to us many times, haven't they? I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, and above all what they want, then, it is, obviously, that this assumption serves for the split, for independence, that this is the price paid by the Catalan sovereignist and bourgeois right. He'll pay what you have to pay to get independence, that we'll get it soon, that we've already been told, right? And so soon we'll have this independence. Therefore, we are on an extended, extended 2016 budget, we do not have a 2016 budget, and on the doorstep of a 2017 budget. Let's hope so. I've got a lot of guts to see him. I would have liked to have seen him before including the same debate. Why, man! Why is Junts for the Yes denied dialogue with the other parliamentary groups in the chamber to make a premise that is useful to meet the economic and social needs, to fight against the poor, against inequality, and to agree with the groups in the chamber? Why is she refusing to do this? Why do you only want to make a deal with the CUP? Why does the CUP have the exclusivity of the presupposition pact? Well, that's an answer you have to donate Junts for the Yes, isn't it? But that's the truth. Therefore, a premise in which the CUP wants to darken the catalan butxaca and finance the process towards independence. In any case, I tell you that ours is tea. Two – two: "Presenting a tax reform project aimed at achieving a more just and progressive tax system. Okay. I already know that the Socialist Party has, a little, a bad conscience, and that is why it also presents this motion. Because, in the past Ple – this..., these students who were not, at the last Ple –, Together for the Yes no, but Socialist Party, Catalonia Yes it is Pot, the People's Party and Citizens will vote together twice in an attempt by the government to raise taxes and why the Catalans pay more; that we already pay more than all Spain, but the government wants us to pay more. Here we all agreed, and we voted no, and we voted no against the approach I was making to the Catalan Tax Agency. And, of course, someone here wanted to clear the conscience: "No, listen, it's clear that we're not voting the same, and so on, is it? So look: I won't allow it at all; we'll vote for it with you, too. But not yet. Today we disagree on some questions. More just and progressive, I'm sure. Now, how do we get more tickets? How do we get the General to have more resources? By way of pushing taxes and it's already there? Or because of economic growth, more occupation, more wealth and a fairer distribution of this wealth? This is the Popular Party option. Therefore, in everything that I suppose darkens the catalan butxaca more, that they already have it very dark, we would not agree. Now, in a review of the tax system to make it more just and balanced, yes, to be able to fight better the poor and inequality. Now, let's macabar with a petition, Mr. Junqueras. There is one way, it has already been said, that it is important to improve the finances of the Generalitat, that it is to have a new model of financing more just and balanced. You, preventing the error of President Puigdemont, convinced President Puigdemont to sue the table to negotiate, which followed the meeting of presidents and which also followed the table to negotiate a better financing model. Defend whatever you want, but watch out for dialogue. If it's not impossible to reach an agreement. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.87.0	Thank you, Mr. Millo. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.88.0	See, I have so many things to say in such a short time... see, I'll start with Mr. Millo. Home! Mr. Millo, what do you say to me—what do you say to me—that you share things with me, such as that you defend a just and progressive tax model, when Mr. Rajoy, when he entered the Government of the State four years ago, pushed the VAT, pushed the IRPF to the middle classes... Home, man, man, listen to me, it seems to me that it's saying a lot what you say—it's saying a lot what you say—huh? Therefore, it seems to me that we do not share the same fiscal policy. Actually, the other day wasn't a tax increase, was it? That's why we voted against it, because we don't get into the background of the tax policy debate. Look, it's true, Mr. Junqueras, and it's true what Mr. Millo said: you don't want to talk. But you know what I think? That it is Republican Left that does not want to dialogue; it is you that does not want to dialogue with us, because two years ago we sat down with Councilman Mas-Colell; he called us, the Socialist Party; he wanted to talk with us, dialogue, see if he could reach agreement with the Socialist Party. And you don't want to do it; you've locked the doors to the other side of the CUP, you need to know why. But then don't come here and ask us for responsibility because we're voting against the assumptions. If you don't want to talk to us and look for agreements, then don't come and tell us that we're responsible for not approving the premise. The responsibility will be yours and, in any case, the CUP, which is with the only ones you want to talk to. And another thing, very quick. When we talk, all day long, you run away from study, you don't want to get into the background of this debate because tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow, you're independent, and when we follow it, we'll have debates about fiscal policy. So much good tomorrow we were independent, so much so that we could do the debate! [[Greetings.]] But no – but no. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, yeah, and so much; that's how we'll do the debate. But not. Do you know what's going on? That's the excuse you guys have for not making fundraisers, and so much. Now it's tomorrow; if it's that tomorrow doesn't exist. It's that 'now it's tomorrow, no; tomorrow it doesn't exist. And what you have to do is, with the self-government capacity you have... the self-government capacity you already have, it's stretching it to the maximum and doing different fiscal policies, and increasing taxes to those you have most. And don't do what they're doing, which is to put the head under the wing, with this excuse from tomorrow, when we're still independent, we'll do it. No, listen to me, when we remain independent, no; today, there are problems in Catalonia, today there is inequality, today the poor child grows up and today we want answers, and you don't want to give it to us; you run away from study. And that's the hardest thing, that a government can't run away from studying; a government has to give answers today, not when we don't know what's going to happen from here to I don't know how long. Today. And this is his irresponsibility. It is a concrete proposal, which raises problems and answers concretely. They won't vote for us again. They'll line up again with the Party...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.89.0	Mrs. Romero...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.90.0	...popular and not with the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.91.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.92.0	...the Poor Zero platform, with the left-hand matches. This is the pain of this government, which thinks too much of tomorrow and very little of today. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.93.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.94.0	To ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.95.0	Okay. Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.96.0	See, me, it's that I would almost vote for all the points separately, because I have quite a variety of votes. Yeah. Can it be?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.97.0	The dots... I mean dots...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.98.0	Yeah, it's just... it's just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.99.0	...a, b, c? Clearly, I mean letters, because there are only two points, 1 and 2. You mean...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.100.0	Letters.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Letters from the... [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, yeah, points and letters, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.101.0	Everything – everything.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.102.0	Or parágrafes – parágrafes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.103.0	He means everything. Go, I mean points and letters.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.104.0	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.105.0	Okay. Everything.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.106.0	Yeah, yeah. Okay?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.107.0	Okay. If it looks good, we'll do this. [[Long break.]] We'll start the vote. As requested, we will vote all points separately. In the first place, we vote point number one. The vote begins. The first point was rejected by 35 votes to 61, with 33 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number two. The vote begins... sorry. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Is there encapsulation number two, do you want the second? I think the 2 is... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] There's a warrant for number two. Number 2 says: "The Catalonian Parliament urges the Government to present a tax reform project aimed at achieving a more just and progressive tax system that allows for the expansion of tax resources. I, then, from there. I don't know, if you want, shall we vote second, directly? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You want to vote the 2nd. We've voted point number 1, now you want to vote 2a, 2.b? Or, I said..., we give the 2_sun and then, 2a, 2.b. It's all right, we're off to a vote. All right, then. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, so, we're voting the point..., the second. [[Josep Enric Millo and Rocher ask to speak.]] Mr. Millo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.108.0	Yes, he did. No, it is that, in fact, point 2, which ends the sentence..., which has not just read it, has just said: "From, two points...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.109.0	Yes – yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.110.0	...two points, so there's a series of letters. In fact, what was asked before, if I didn't get it wrong, is that we voted the letters, all of them, separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.111.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.112.0	No a i a b, no: a b i a c i a d i a e i a f i a g; all separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.113.0	Yes, yes; that's what we understand, Mr. Millor. Yeah, that's what we were doing, huh? Yeah. End here. All right, then. We're voting for point 2.a. The vote begins. Point 2.a_has been rejected by 36 votes to 70, with 23 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 2.b. The vote begins. The 2.b_point was rejected by 36 votes to 70, with 23 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 2.c. The vote begins. The 2.c_point was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 93 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 2.d. The vote begins. The 2.d_point was approved by 68 votes to 61, with no abstentions. [[Some applause.]] Next, we'll vote on point 2. The vote begins. Point 2.e_is approved by 129 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 2.f. The vote begins. The 2.f_point was approved by 120 votes in favour, 9 against and no abstentions. And then we'll vote for point 2.g. The vote begins. Point 2.g_has been approved by 97 votes to 32, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into public policies respect the foods they embalter]] [[302-00079/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on public policies with regard to the food they are marketing, presented by the Gruppo Parlamentari Catalunya Si que es Pot. To expose her, has the word Ms. Marta Ribas. [[Widow's remorse.]] And ask them if you'd like them to come out quickly and quietly so we can continue with the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.114.0	Well, good morning. Fifteen days ago, in the past plenary, he said to them: "Eating badly sick and kills. Catalonia, too. Because unhealthy nutrition is behind the main diseases that affect our population, such as type 2 diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular diseases or certain types of cancer, and we are talking about scientifically proven data. Because every time it's harder, because the majority... the half of children in Catalonia are overweight or obese, and that's not just a problem with presenting but also of the future, as we did 15 days ago. Because, in addition, there is a clear class in this issue, and it is that the choice of which we eat responds much more to structural causes than to individual decisions. The difference in price between a healthy diet and one of insanity is one euro and mig per person per day, and this is making 44 % of the families in Catalonia unable to access a diet that complements basic nutritional health recommendations. Therefore, it is not an individual issue of attack, it is not only a topic of individual responsibility, it is not just a topic of educational campaigns, but, obviously, it is a matter of public policy making respect. This was, in summary, the one that put them in the past plenary, with the question I made to Councilman Comin, who has already apologized that today could not be in the debate of this young man. And he said to them: "Therefore, to make public policies we will set up a movement that intends to attack who are the causes of all fold. And the causes that we identified, and that coincided with the counselor, were the opacity of the sector respect that it is a good or a bad nutritional profile, opacity sought and sought; the deceptive publicity that is being made especially directed to the children's public, and the financial speculation that it is making this same food sector, which also makes survival difficult, easy access to the market, easy access for citizens to ecological, community or proximity agriculture, and these elements of class bias. It has therefore been possible to make policies, many have to be done, but they must be from the will to make structural changes, from the will to make very cross-cutting policies and, obviously, not thinking of making friends in this sector and in the lobbies of this sector. Therefore, I want to value some of the points of the motion that answer to these causes, to these elements of background. The first point, point 1a of this motion, which is key, is that we should establish which nutritional profiles from a Catalan perspective are based on the criteria set for the WHO and for European directives that are food without and that are insane elements, and that this must be done by the government of public responsibility. And they can't affect this definition of food profiles without or without the lobbying of the sector, because, if not, we'll never create a possibility again... well, some public policies. From these profiles, which is the 1st point of this young man..., a lot of other elements went into the rest of the young man's room, and that's why they see them..., they see this point referenced in many other points of the young man's room. For example – and I highlight some of them – we agree to agree on labels, but with the sector, on clearer labels, of these profiles without and without or regular advertising of these products. And that's to do-trying to have a special impact on the children's public. Another element that we wanted to highlight is limiting access to insanity foods and facilitating access to sans. This is done in ways that affect, for example, the fact that there is no good will, but a real limitation of this type of product to schools and public equipment. And also in the public purchase, which we added from a CUP item. Or, obviously, with elements of taxation, because it can attack with tax policies, such as, for example, sugary drunks, but also unhealthy foods, in order to be able to hold more, not only, more difficult access to these products, but also more resources to be able to make public policies of salvation or to facilitate access to healthy products. And a third element that I highlight, and with this I finish, to attack this class bias, which is the point of the motion in which we claim a child benefit for families at risk of poverty; a benefit of EUR 100 per month for children at risk of poverty, so that we can guarantee all families, especially those at risk of social exclusion, an economic capacity to get to healthy foods. There's a lot of points in this young man. I recognize that there has been a complex movement for the groups to be able to work it, also, obviously, for the Government, but we hope that it can be approved for a large majority. And thank all the groups for the girls, which many, as they must have seen, have been or incorporated directly or transactionally. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.115.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, has the words of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.116.0	Thank you, President. A long, complex young woman, and I want to thank the work of Congresswoman Marta Ribas, among other things, for how long and complex the papers have been and who has managed to do so. It's long and complex, but it has a common denominator. And I think he was explaining it to the insider of his intervention, too, don't I? And let us give it to all those responsible for salvation: salvation to all policies. The object of the present and future well-being does not only correspond to medicine, political will and every time with the intervention of many more actors, because preventive measures are the most important. Some professionals say this: the main determinants of salvation..., one of them is the lifestyle, which is the one that influences the most and most modifiable in prevention and promotion. It is also the genetic heritage, the health system and the environment. The Ottawa Charter, which defines very well what salvation is, says to us: "Pau, education, clothing, food, housing, a stable ecosystem, social justice and equity are required for salvation. I believe that this very definition that the Ottawa Charter does to us is what basically defines the transversality of the measures that this young man carries. And I didn't want to give them a lecture on public health. But what is obvious is that what we eat, not only what we eat, the chemical components that are present in the elaboration, as we prepare, but also the inequalities, the possibility of having access to a healthy diet, the temperature of our home, are still required for salvation, in short, for absence of disease, and, therefore, for welfare. Also the WHO says that friendly campaigns are no longer worth, they call for blunt and cross-cutting measures. And I would like, here, to add something that I was discussing with Congresswoman Marta Ribas: because the government determines who will be responsible, which organ will be responsible for bringing all these basic measures forward for what we want and claim in this young man. Is that where he's bringing it? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And, therefore, it is important to know. Create a proper profile of nutritional profiles. Me, basically, too, here I take the criteria of the Mediterranean diet, together with a tax, and, above all, a great clarity in all that is labelling and components. We must be able to hear all that is planted and what we have in the food we have in our hands. There are many measures that do not require, basically, great efforts, more than political will, such as that to our schools and public equipment we do not have machines that deliver unhealthy foods or that the menus are set with adhesive nutritional criteria. Therefore, this is a subject, as is the subject of inequality. Therefore, my group supports this point on which there is a monthly aid of EUR 100 for the child of minors to families at risk of poverty and exclusion, because at this time it should be remembered that the poor in Catalonia have the highest degree of incidence among children under the age of seven. There are many measures, as they say, and that we share, that with economic implications, also with inputs, we have also wanted, through our reviews, that the assemblies are recognized, and therefore, recollect the assumptions attached in their pocket of promoting healthy food, and also the programs of help to the family that are being made, because it is obvious that the users end up..., the citizens end up knocking at the nearest door and, in this case, are the assemblies. And I am grateful, therefore, that this measure has also been incorporated. There are some issues that we want to highlight: the fact of creating and enhancing a search line already existing in the institute of agro-food production, and we need to create a more accessible market and facilitate access to food without, fresh, ecological and proximity. They think you're important. At this point, only one per cent of the population consumes this type of food and we need to make it much more accessible. Therefore, public greetings, fiscal measures, transparency, and in the end my group had made a remark about malarrangement. It was there to make an advertising campaign about the bill that we have presented, but we believe that we have accepted that you are not in the House because in yourself it is already quite complex, and therefore we are debating it in the area of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.117.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Escarp. Next, to defend the papers presented has the word of the candidate Gabriela Serra, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.118.0	Thank you, President; good morning. Good day you stayed here to feel this young man. To thank Marta Ribas for the effort she has made in presenting this young man, and to regret that the times have been short, that the times have been too fast, too fast and have not allowed us to discuss this process more thoroughly than it would have been very interesting. Very interesting because, more than that, it did do a great job of trying to harmonize the different things. I'm glad, because so many times you say there's a little dialog and there's little relationship – for example, with Together for the Yes – and, in turn, this time you've incorporated motions from the twenty that they've presented, and you haven't left us a few of ours out. Okay. First of all, I wanted to make a statement that we believe it is important, and that is that we cannot agree, since we are talking about taxes, we are talking about taxes, with taxes or taxes that unjustly burden everyone's consumption equally, with independence from the economic capacity that families have and people have. Why? Because we think it's common sense that if we burn each other anyway without taking into account our personal and daily economy, that doesn't impact the same way everyone else and they're part of very unequal situations. A clear example of this injustice: it would only be lacking that we do not engrave capital, nor do we engrave wealth and high returns so as not to decapitalize the enterprises, as Mr Espinosa said, and, in change – and, in change – we dedicate ourselves to encumbrance in a way, equal to everyone through consumption. It's not separate things, I mean, it can't be that, can it? Why? Because substantially we would go for another line – we would go for another line. And that's right, Mrs. Alicia Romero, and thinking about today, isn't it? - That's right, it's not there! – Thinking about today, we believe that if a product is really, the most normal is that it is forbidden, that it is prohibited as weapons are, right? Weapons kill, they're insane, so they're forbidden. Well, less armies. And that, if it doesn't happen, it's not because there is a liberal mindset, of free rational choice, but for something that has already been said:, for economic interests, economic interests that unfortunately create political ties. I can't remember that at our home, in 2013, we had the resignation to establish an anti-obesity tax on sugary drunks due to pressure from the U.S. embassy, and for the conversation that Mr. Solomont had with Mr. Arthur But they had, in which he manifested the discomfort of Coca-Cola, Pepsi, "the spark of life, with measure and suggested to President More that they could cause the US investments in Catalonia. So, that's true, huh? You know, there's economic interest in politics, don't you? Now well – now well – so that we don't..., it seems that you can't ban them, because we don't have enough political strength, nor enough political will, yes, we will create taxes for the production of scrap food, and that they are necessary, but we have to face them from a point of view that you serve to build alternatives. What do I mean, with this? I mean, we'd have to go to the game, among other things, which, for us, would go through three important objectives. One, that the one who is collected with these taxes should go to change the agro-food production model. It is to say that it should be finalist, this tribute, and this means two things: one, recaptancy should go directly to increase the agri-ecological farms in the country, and the other, that the foods that are produced reach the internal consumption of our population, at reasonable prices, as in mass consumption, alternating with industrial beguds and fast food. Starting now. I for the purchase and supply of these foods in public buildings. We have a hard problem, because today there are alternatives to eating healthy and agro-ecological, but at large urban concentrations, you know, they are often very dear. And that's what we remember after we devastated the camp in the last few decades and with a quality production that today is smaller and still facing who can pay more: who pays for the hand. And the worst thing is to deny social reality, because when this happens there are those who later judge morally how the money is spent by the working people and their creatures, as if they can pay the weekly purchase to the Veritas chain, or as if they can pay 200_euros a month for a family cyst without fruit, vegetable, meat, or fish. Therefore, welcome are these 100_euros that we will give, again, to some families. On the other hand, and as far as we think it's important, this tribute, because it's done, has to be a real progressive and impact burden on the big price at the end. And I want to put two examples: one, tobacco kills, and we don't think fast food and sweeteners, which are hypercalorie bombs, so... that's not what we say, the WHO says. And tobacco taxes aren't tiny, they're big. Perhaps some tobacco industry is decapitating, but it is gaining in salvation. So, we're gonna put five cents on a coke, a McDonald's ice cream, some doughnuts, the white chocolate, some frigids with transgenic acids...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.119.0	Lady Serra, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.120.0	Holy shit! Good! [[Rialles.]] What do we mean, then? We wanted to say that taxes must be progressive, that all advertising must be banned... – today we won't talk about imposing taxes on this, we'll talk about banning –, banning all advertising: television and also static. Because you don't feel that we want to label...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.121.0	Madam Serra, it's time has run out...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.122.0	...seems to label...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.123.0	...I know it's hard, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.124.0	Yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.125.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.126.0	You don't have a very important input, do you? [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.127.0	I'm having a hard time. Next, the words of Mr. Jorge Soler, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.128.0	Okay. Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, I'm on condition to say– maybe much more like I'm, like meth, that also – that child feeding has to be an occupation than society. It's a social issue, not just health care, and that's why I have to do a lot. Today we are discussing the foods that make us sick. Fifteen days ago I was listening to the exemplary companies of the Hospital Sant Joan de Deu, presenting the Dese Report Faros, which counted on the collaboration of institutions such as the American Academy of Pediatrics and the Alicia Foundation, to whom from here we take advantage to congratulate them for so good a job, explaining that it has increased the number of children who follow healthy diets, which can cause problems in the development of children in the event that all the nutritional needs of children are not satisfied. We know that pediatricians find that every time there are more families with children who follow a restrictive diet for various, often economic, reasons. We know that up to 80 percent of children do not eat the necessary fruit and 50 percent only eat vegetables once a day and 90 percent do not eat fish every week. I recommend, therefore, the excellent report that covers all aspects of child nutrition, such as feeding the child at a stage of life up to adolescence, food allergies and intolerances, the symptoms of a food disorder, and how to achieve, for example, that children eat fruits, vegetables and fish. There's also a lot of other evidence that we need to be alerted to. For example, in the 2015 Catalonian Red Creu, which incorporates the concept of ‘food security', understood as the situation in which all persons in a family group always have physical, social and economic access to sufficient innocuous and nutritious food to satisfy their food needs and preferences, in order to be able to live an active and healthy life, all directly related to the level of family entrances. It is impossible to comment strictly on the whole motion for its extension, but to speak today of food security and the physical activity that is carried out every week, of what is the shock that the family makes, of who is at the expense of children at the time of doing their dues and, therefore, of family reconciliation policies, of the hours before television and video games, or of how many hours, for example, our children sleep and until what time they are taken. A young man as extensive as this could have incorporated, so you're afraid in that sense. If we come into fiscal matters, we always align ourselves with European policy. We need to combat harmful products, such as tobacco, alcohol and some of the products we are talking about today, but we need to do something global because they are really effective. Every day there can be no new tax in Catalonia, and we would like an agreement with a common proposal for all of them. She didn't feel like she was recording a product here and that people bought it the most fucked up in the community. We believe that in this case fiscal policy is an instrument of community intervention and social change, but we do not lose sight of the fact that education is much more powerful. We agree, therefore, on the good part of this motion, but the calculation, for example, of the amounts we think must be realistic and possible, because we support families who need help, and that is why our bill is in the process, where we intentionally did not define quantities, because we understand that this must be a great pact among all of us. It is very good, therefore, to have a subject like this here, because we are still surprised, for example, that some agitating posters like this to the electoral campaign: "We want a country where there is ice cream for desserts every day. [[Some applause.]] So, I think it's very bad. If I may, I prefer subtly very different signs, but like this: "We want a country where our children eat fruit every day. [[Greetings.]] Look, we understand that this is the idea, that this is the idea where we should go. This is what the WHO believes, for example, in affirming that salvation is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being, and not merely the absence of affections or illnesses. President, Ferran Adrià said that scientific and culinary knowledge is essential because our children are begging in a healthy and enjoyable way now and in a future. Members of Parliament, taking advantage of the time of the dinar, welcomed me with the Arguinano: "A rich, rich and well-founded eat. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.129.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms. Anna Caula, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.130.0	Thank you, President. From our group, Together for the Yes, we want to express our satisfaction that we have been able to reach important and, above all, realistic agreement on the objective of this motion that deals, we do not forget, with a topic of topicality and shared concern: healthy eating habits. Thank you to the promoter of the motion, Mrs Marta Ribas, for her willingness to speak, so that we can reach agreements that will make it possible to begin to resolve this shared concern. Actually, it's not a new issue. This government and its predecessors have begun to work solidly on a set of measures to address this issue; measures that this young man wants to strengthen, and that satisfies us. Let me, however, as the new Member of Parliament, make an incise: there were after long motions, full of points and apart, the motions go lençol. But this one, I understand, goes beyond the lençol. Now that the cold has arrived, this young man is not a lugera Nordic bottom, but he's filled – in plural – with windshields, cobras and a mountain of coats. And it is that, perhaps, according to our opinion, this objective so laudable to focus on eating and healthy habits, a cross-cutting issue, should not be conveyed from this instrument that requires an immediate – as the honourable Member Serra does – which does not agree with the seriousness and depth of what we should discuss. It is a starting point, however, and since the young man asks us to put ourselves on the back, we accept it and say: "We go further to develop and go to the bottom of all sides, and we have faced with absolutely no one build this young man. For the time being, however, we are summarizing our position. Even though the young lady is a member of the Health Department, we also understand that we are talking about the importance we give, like society, to healthy food, but that it also derives from social, cultural and environmental issues, which implies, at the same time, the question about which model of society we want. It is decisive that we work and it is very important that we do it together, because the change of habits in general and food in particular is a central element in improving our society. And this went further and we should also consider the model of food policy, starting with the agri-food sector, a sector that needs to take into account, strategic, since it is also about our food production in Catalonia, where we have aspired for healthy habits and the balanced Mediterranean diet, which is safe, qualitative and diverse. We must help the producers of the territory, who do good things. Therefore, our group also bets on a proactive approach, not just a tax collector, years on the contrary, acting in training and education to consolidate a Catalan society with healthy food habits. We need to know how to convince ourselves of the benefits of a diet based on healthy foods and good physical activity habits. We need to know how to convince ourselves to eat healthy foods and not those that do not bring benefits but problems to our salvation. We need to work in favour of food and healthy diets, in favour of good habits. And we already know that we have to start from the beginning, that is, from the first years of life, since, in addition to facilitating a good nutritional state and an excellent knowledge and growth, it helps to consolidate and export around it the acquisition of healthy habits for adulthood, which was also linked to consumption patterns and also to the negative effects of globalisation. With reference to point 4, I am sure that we will vote for the third time in this Parliament, but simply for what we have been talking about, because we understand that there is already a question that we believe is where, among all of us, we have to work. With reference to point 3, we said that the change in food habits is a cultural change that requires a lot of pedagogy, sure, but also fiscal measures, because taxes do not only have recaptatory effects, they also have the will to change social behaviors. We're working because 2017's assumptions put a tax on sugar beaks. This is the intention announced for the government, but this is not a new element; it has been working for a long time, especially during the last legislature, and it has matured, not only in Catalonia, to make it applicable and effective. Another thing is the food tax, which neither here nor to all European countries where we have been studied are prepared to address it. In short, for the sake of intervention, it is a cultural change and cultural changes are fanciful not only from motions, but also more, as we work and do with legislative measures and with the political will that this government and those who will come. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.131.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Caula. Next, the words of Mrs. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.132.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, counselors, deputies, deputies, well, Congresswoman Ribas, I read – I'll be honest – the title of the young man, the truth is that I was surprised a little bit, didn't I? Why talk so strictly about foods that make you sick, the truth is that it sounds a bit harsh, doesn't it? Because, of course, we can talk about healthy foods, unhealthy foods, healthy people's foods; but to say that they're sick, I think it's creating..., maybe I'm overdoing it too, but I think it's creating a little social alarm, right? And a social alarm that's unnecessary. We all know that abusing, exceeding in certain foods or beguds, therefore, can be harmful to salvation, but from this to tell us that they are getting sick, so I don't know how far, don't I? Finally, in this small young man, whom you are sweeping up, it looks more like a monogram on food policies, which goes from the labelling of products to how we can scan the big distributors, going by asking for a child benefit, etc., isn't it? A short while ago, I rejected the way the motion was finally left, that with the different points that have been put forward and the different transactions that have been reached, so I think that they have been sufficient for the text and, therefore, we can vote in favour of various points or abstain from them, right? From our point of view, the motion consists of two distinct parts. One that we can perfectly assume, which corresponds to points 6, 7 and 8, where we have the table proposed in place to promote healthy food and which, therefore, we share in the cent_per_cent, and as for the first five points of the initial motion, they start from a philosophy that we do not share and if not, I say so already, because they have been modulated through these elements of other political groups, our vote, therefore, would have been against in its totality. In the case of Point 1, what you do is a negative and impossible interpretation of what the WHO says and what the European Food Safety Agency says, which they have later added, right? Both organisms define healthy practices and recommend the Mediterranean diet, which is certainly a heritage of humanity, but what they do not say – I repeat, what they do not say – in any case, is in what way and arbitrarily and discretionaryly, so we can identify certain products and brands that have passed health checks as if they were tobacco or alcohol. In this case, the only one recommended by international organizations is moderation and a balanced diet. In this young man you go further and want to do like a catalogue of foods that can be more arbitrary even though they turn them into an authentic contradiction, because, for a band, they ask for the legalization of drugs and, on the other hand, they want to criminalize Magdalenes or Coca-Cola, don't they? So, it all seems like a little surrealist to us. They also have various points that refer to tax and economic derivatives, derivatives that affect this concept of unhealthy foods and that, from our point of view, remains flowing and that work much more. An example, Mrs Ribas knows that at these times – and she has spoken here – the issue of small people is being debated, right? and, therefore, I don't think it is necessary to sweep this debate today with whether the Generality's assumptions need to guarantee a child benefit of less than a hundred euros per month. Obviously, it's obvious that we don't want it to happen. We all subscribed to it, but up there a moment when it gives you the feeling that you use the weakest to make magic. Because I say this with all sincerity: I believe that this issue should be analysed much more deeply. And I have already said this, as far as the last points are concerned – 6, 7 and 8 – we will vote in favour, because they give a positive view of the issue; before the time to promote access to food without, fresh, ecological and proximity, and to present and develop the public food concentration plan of Catalonia, an instrument that we certainly have for more than a year. And we also see positively, therefore, the points that make reference to the educational and, therefore, also to the health care sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.133.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.134.0	Okay. Yes, obviously, we're talking about foods that make you sick, because language is not neutral, and naming reality makes them emerge. And that's a reality. Talking with some other terms means trying to store it, which is what has been done so far. This is the term we want to talk to, because, moreover, it is the term we want to deal with this young man and these proposals, which are of many scopes but we want the full, the essential point of view to come from public salvation. Because what we have is a problem of public salvation as a result of an unhealthy diet. And, therefore, we already give it to the Government, and obviously we also agree with the PSC: we will pursue that there is someone who is responsible, from this, from behind; this touches many areas of the Administration and the Government, but we hope that when behind there is the prospect of public salvation, that it is who should be leading it, all folded. It is not a concern, Mrs Caula, that obviously if, in fact, I had this great cross-sectionality of respect for the Government and for the reason that we plant in this test, also multilevel tea, and we also plant it in the European Parliament and with laws in the Congress, that is where we would surely have to regulate this, via law, and not from here. Only a couple of reflections. The monthly cents per child do not come from nothing, but from this brutal class biax that has the theme of food and the Fedaia proposal of how much it is that comes to feed a child in a healthy way. And we thought it was right to put him in this young man. And one last thought, the gods, on the subject of taxes. It is the WHO, it is the World Health Organization, that says that a charge of 20_per_cent at least for unhealthy foods, to end, say, with what is an epidemic of public salvation that are causing us especially the sweats between childhood, problems of obesity, overweight, and therefore we have to do something respect. Therefore, the proposal does not arise from the non-res: it arises from the World Health Organization. Unfortunately, today in the Parliament of Catalonia, however, we will not go beyond what is already going on in other places. We could also try to record insanity food, but it seems that there will be an alliance of those who defend food lobbyists, who are in this case in the Junts Government for the Yes, and also on behalf of the People's Party, who will surely be the votes that will make it impossible for us today to record insanity food, and not just the sugary beguds, which has been working for some time and that the lobbyists in their moment [[remorse of the voice]] They put up with it in the last legislature...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.135.0	Mrs. Ribas, you've run out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.136.0	...and now it will prosper. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.137.0	...you know that. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.138.0	To ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.139.0	How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.140.0	From points 1, 2, 5, 6 and 7. These people can vote sencers. And after voting separate also from points 3.c, 4.b and c and 8.a, b and d. Ah, and also the 3rd, b, 4th and 8th.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.141.0	Do I repeat it to you? [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres said: "Yes.]] The 1, 2, 5, 6 and 7. Then he told me the 3.c, the 4.a, 4.b, 4.c... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres says: «Q b i c.]] Didn't she say that? [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres said: «No.]] So, 4.b, 4.c, 8.a, 8.b, 8.d... What did he say next?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.142.0	3a, b... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, I gave him the 4th, but to vote no..., these people can vote in groups, and the 3rd, the 4th and the 8th is another group, for us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.143.0	But it's the same, because if you don't... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres said: "Yes, of course.]] Oh, come on, I reckon you did tell me on the fourth.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.144.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.145.0	Fourth. So, the 3rd, 3.b and 3.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.146.0	Yeah. And the 8.c..., a, b and d.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.147.0	We'll repeat it again before we vote, because canvas. All right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] I'll repeat again, Mrs. Caula, why ask me the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, I repeat, I will repeat what we have been asked to vote on separately: point 1, point 2, point 5, point 6 and point 7; then point 3a, point 3.b, point 3.c, point 4.a, point 4.b, point 4.c, point 8.a, point 8.b and point 8.d. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The 8th. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right with that? [[Pause.]] Separately, all of these. So, anyway, we'll start the vote. We'll start by voting on it as Mr. Carrizosa asked: 1, 2, 3, and then we'll go... okay? [[Pause.]] We'll vote for point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 117 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 118 votes to 9, with 9 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 118 votes to 9, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number seven. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Next, we'll vote on the third point. The vote begins. Point 3.a_has been approved by 35 votes to 9, with 83 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point 3.b. The vote begins. Point 3.b_has been rejected by 34 votes to 69, with 23 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 3.c. The vote begins. The 3.c_point was approved by 118 votes in favour, 9 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 4.a. The vote begins. Point 4.a_has been rejected by 35 votes to 60, with 32 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 4.b. The vote begins. Point 4.b_has been approved by 118 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 4.c. The vote begins. Point 4.c_is approved by 118 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 8.a. The vote begins. Point 8a_a was approved by 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 8.b. The vote begins. Point 8.b was approved by 127 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 8.c. The vote begins. Point 8.c_is approved by 104 votes to 23, with 23 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 8.d. The vote begins. The 8.d_point was approved by 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. [[remorse of the voice]] If that's what's left of it... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you have it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, fantastic; we're done. The session is suspected up to two-quarters of four. [[Widow's remorse.]] [[The session is suspected to be three-quarters of a half-and-a-half and eleven-minutes, and is taken two-quarters of four in the afternoon. She chairs the President of Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who is assisted by the Secretary General and the late Miquel Lluís Palomares Amat.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.148.0	It's part of the session. Very nice late. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into primary health care]] [[302-00080/11]] The point of the order of the day is: Motion following the question to the Government on primary health care, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mr. Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.149.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President, again. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. I have already explained more than once that I have entered politics with the illusion of being able to work on the issues that Catalonia is likely to be improved and that it is here where, with dialogue and consensus, it can be made possible. And that's why today, I recognize it, for me it's a very happy day. I am satisfied here, proud and very pleased that I was able to bring to debate one of the themes that for me justified leaving a consultation and working as a servant for this magnanimous institution. Renoir said that the work of art has to capture you, embolize you, behave you... And with politics it happens the same: attract, motivate, captivate, until all life ends up feeling this, your own work of art, shaped and transformed by the events and efforts of all who at the same time work for this construction, forming a great work in constant evolution and transformation. We're bringing to the plenary this central point of call for a reform for primary care. I said here, a few days ago, that I was in a primary attention that I felt completely proud of, because I told you that I was proud of her. I want a truly inclusive and integrated primary. And I desire a holistic primary that is present at all stages of life. And that's what the inquiry was about, and that's what the motion was about: simple in its essay, but ambitious in its implementation. I would like to say that everything that has been discussed here so many times about the empowerment of primary care, about all the centres that are running in the territory, is reviewed together, and that the origin of a reform like this is not the leader of the council, the political party, that does not follow the reform that Ciutadans promoted, but is led by the users and the professionals, who are the ones to adjust the model of primary care that we already have. Because they can do this reform they need our support, a great cross-cutting pact that demonstrates to the citizenry that Parliament can unite in everything that makes us stronger, fairer and more without. So they also heard me talking about the four pillars that I need to work on because this primary has a good base of support. And I'm not talking about the economic percentage that we're targeting, that also, but I'm thinking that we need to make a determined and firm bet to have a good clinic, a competitive search, a quality teaching and a top management. We never lose sight of the fact that it is the citizens who take advantage of this primary attention and that it is the workers who facilitate this excellence, and therefore it is them and for them that we have to make these changes, these adjustments, a reform that improves on all the axes I describe. Moreover, I need to do it because I need to talk about the contracts of the workers, where precariousness has been established, and I need to talk about the DPOs, the professional career, and so with a wide range of themes that are on the table to solve. There is no doubt that in this century we talk about competitions, about the whole portfolio of services that we need to put into practice. It can't be that health care management doesn't stick to straightening out, to define exactly who does what and where. Any company that wants to operate well needs to be clear about its skills, the possibilities, the ability to resolve, and this, in a large health institution, should be done if we do not want to offer it more than is already in some places. Dignifying and putting order to the primary attention could be the summary of a young person like this. It is necessary to understand well and in depth all the dimensions that the primary care has and all its potential to exploit, in order to be able to concretely where to direct the changes. And that's why I insist that we do it from the sensileness and professionalism of who is to lead the great changes that, in this case, I insist, must not be the politicians. The next few years are waiting for us when, undoubtedly, chronicity, home care and community care will be the key to the needs of citizens and media, at the same time, for health excellence. To the question before the present motion ended my first round of words asking the Ple a question; it was the following: can the primary attention count with you? Today we have the answer: yes. We are willing to make great changes to keep the primary care we need. Let's do it together, let's do this reform, let's do a new primary care for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.150.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. Next, the words "Assumpta Escarp", of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, have to defend the papers presented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.151.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, all of you. To thank Deputy Jorge Soler for the presentation of this motion and, above all, to open the debate and to bring back the debate on primary attention. On November 27, 2014, all parliamentary groups approved a motion that said: "To see the need to strengthen primary and community care as the nuclear element of the health system and better for the citizen in order to respond to a large part of the population's health needs, providing it with more resolutive capacity, specialized attention and diagnostic tests, and as a flow manager and facilitator of continuity care with other health and social services. Year 2014. From here on, there was a movement that is today absolutely up to date, as is what we are debating today and as are many others that were approved. This is the meaning, as I said, of this motion and of the papers presented by the Socialist Group. We have asked to incorporate that it is a gift or that it is equipped with primary care teams of the ability to manage hospital agendas of diagnostic tests and specialists. It is an important, complementary and necessary decision to reduce waiting lists. We have also incorporated a plan for the integration of health and social services, especially for the care of dependency. In short, all the reason for this is to get out of what is very much in the imagination of the collection, we are too "hospital centerists and we take little account of primary care; we use the mouth that is the strong pillar of the system but we don't give them a mechanism because this is it. From the community perspective, all scientific evidence shows that those health systems that have a greater orientation to increase the focus of primary care improve the health outcomes of the population, satisfaction, and provide greater equity and better use of health services. But today we are where we are and we see ourselves with the need, in this Parliament, to express our support, recognition and thanks to some professionals. Why? So, because in the next five years the Health Department has reduced the primary care assumption by 20_per_cent; because the ICS, responsible for the 80_per_cent of the primary care, has lost 1,064 people in five years and more than a thousand nurses. Thanks to the compromise, dedication and effort of professionals and workers, these details have not caused an obvious deterioration in the quality of care. This is our reality; the reality of the non-repossession of retirements, the non-covering of falls and the non-covering of day-to-day reductions per maternity, together with the reduction of services, schedules and specialties in many centres in Catalonia or the paralyzing of planned investments for the construction of our CAP or to complete the health map. So you need this young man to ask for one more time – and, if it can be, with a calendar a little faster – the strategic primary care and community plan, which responds to the current challenge: we live longer and we'll be sicker, and therefore we need to rethink and plan what changes are bringing to the system so that we can adapt to the new realities. And this has to be accompanied by an investment plan that prioritizes compromised investments, which in many, improves current infrastructures, technological renewal and the incorporation of the new technologies. It is in this sense that we appreciate the presentation of this young man, that at the same time we appreciate the facilitation, as always, of Congressman Jorge Soler to attend to the papers presented. It is a simple motion, as he says, but it says everything he has to say and that the Socialist Group has tried, with its own considerations, to expand on what seems to us to be the most priority: to have real instruments and tools, basically to lose this value that he gives to him as "hospital centerers and focus on primary care, so on proximity, and also recognition, and so on, whatever comes from recognition, of our professionals, men and women, who make every day the primary care, care and well-being of the citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.152.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Escarp. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.153.0	Thank you very much, President. Members... Mr Soler, in the previous question you did a half-for using water, and we have to tell you that, in this half-for, therefore, you have managed to bring water, therefore, to the mill, and therefore we are all fully satisfied with it. In that question, the councillor also thanked him for the construction of his intervention, and so let's say that now he is also grateful not only for the construction of the young person, but also for the rest of the groups for the construction of his studies, because, if all the young person is breathing, so that the primary sector must have a consensus, it would not be a shame that in this Parliament the parliamentary groups would not agree, precisely, to achieve this consensus. Notwithstanding this, I also told him that we feel more comfortable with the initial writing of the motion, because, if what we say, and also the motion, is that this process is to be done through a process involving professionals, you don't really feel that we here, from Parliament, are starting to mark who these lines of action are to be. The councillor in his intervention has already pointed out that primary care was one of the basic sglaons of our health system and that 1987 this country made a major reform, its first major reform, and now we have to continue this reform, but the councillor also recalled that this must be considered and agreed. And before the young man and the young man's content, both in his first point, as in the second, as in the third, you talk about taking over just this primary sector and its professionals, and that's what we want, what we want to do and what the government wants to do. And the counselor reminded him that this was to be with consensus, with concrete measures, that are operational, timetables, and with planned resources. And for this reason, the councillor had already announced that the month of April had begun to work on the work of this possible plan, some work that had been done with the collaboration of patients and professionals, with a participatory methodology, which must lead, precisely, to a better of primary public health, but also of the community, with very concrete objectives, such as defining the service portfolio, giving economic and human resources, better of the payment system, the size provided by the professionals and advancing in a more resolute management, with the basic objective that all of us want from our health: that there should be resources, therefore, available and affordable, guaranteeing universal access to health, public attention and adequate quality to a just and equitable health. It is for this reason that we have approved most of the points. And, referring to point 4, you ask that the councillor come to compare to Parliament, and he, on his own motion, has already asked to come to compare to Parliament so that he can begin to exhaust those basic elements of what this project should be. We also appreciate the views of the Socialist Party and Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. They talk about having synergies, synergies with public health services and also with social services, and obviously we will also vote in favour, because the government is already working on interdepartmental plans policies to be able to work on this. They talk about socioeconomic indicators, and obviously we will also vote for them, because what we want is to try to reduce those possible inequalities that exist in salvation and that many times can be accompanied by these social or cultural differences. And that's why we've added the term "community greeting" to the whole movement. We also appreciate the deal they made with the Socialist Party regarding the fact that the assumptions were final, because we understand that salvation is not a static department, patients go from primary care to hospital health, and therefore it would be difficult..., and we believe that, as the final wording remains, it is much easier to compliment. And, as it cannot be otherwise, we also thank the public workers for their dedication, especially in these past years, because this primary care, hospital care, of salvation in general, has not lowered the quality of life. Therefore, we will vote in favour of all points of the motion, including the papers. We will vote in favour because we believe in this public sanitation, we believe that we have a good public sanitation, which is still better. Mr. Soler, however, recalled that these changes are to be made without protagonists, and that is what the Government wants, that is what the Joint Parliamentary Group wants for the Yes, without protagonists, and that is why we believe in the processes of participation. Let the professionals be the ones who decide what health and this primary care should be like, and I'm sure we'll all win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.154.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cervera. [[Greetings.]] Next, has the words of Mr. Albano Fachin, in representation of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.155.0	Thank you, President. Just as the people who preceded me have done, I would like to thank him for this proposal made by Congressman Jorge Soler to talk to us, to put on the table the issue of primary care. Because it's always good, because it's never enough, it's never much to talk about primary care, especially when we see what we're talking about. Because it's true that we all agree that for everyone..., and everyone accepts and makes their own the fact that primary care is very important, that it has to be the place around which a conception of the health system revolves. It's also good that this Parliament puts on the table you're afraid they're going to pick up something that's often not retrograde, which is popular wisdom, isn't it? The popular wisdom says: "Prevention is better than cure, and primary care in this sense has much to say. And it's also good to talk because very hard things are going on in primary care in our country. There are these lists of hope that are not only a technical problem, they are not only a human problem; in the end, we are in front of an incentive to become a mutual. This, in any bar, in any tabletop, everyone talks about it. If you go to primary care and you don't have the ability to access it in some reasonable terms, then the option of making a mutual is always there. And it's also important to talk because – the counselor knows it and I think we all know it; Mr. Soler knows it too, because he's worked there – the working conditions of the primary health care workers are terrible, and that's how it is, they're terrible; that's when we get along and try to fix it, huh? But today they're terrible. The professionals who are cremated – I've already said this once here – who don't have time to do their job well, who are crying because they're wondering if they're sending people home without the attention that people really need; that's what the primary care teachers tell you. And, therefore, that's good news. And we read the contents of the motion and it's talking, well, about taking primary care, supporting the workers, analyzing and planning globally... I don't think anyone here can vote against this, and we won't do it either, we'll pick up this motion. Now, I want to do some thinking. Clearly, when the motion says: "Urge the government to analyze and plan globally the issue of primary care, I am concerned. We're wearing a year of government, and now we approve of this? Ostres, I understand that the government was already doing it, I want to think that the government was already doing it and that today, therefore, we give a symbolic recovery to continue doing it, I hope. I don't think the government says, "Ostres, look at what a good idea Ciutadans have had, because... I hope that's the way it is. The second question, the second... This is a complex issue, we're talking..., if we say that primary care... – oysters, I'm going to stay out of time –, if we say that primary care is so important and we see that the health care system is such an important issue, and we see that there are a lot of conflicting views here about what it does to the health care system, that we all approve that it can mean two things: that there has been a miracle and these great disparities that we have at the time of thinking about what is health and health has disappeared by magic or that, despite all the good will of the young man, in fact what we are doing today is not doing anything else. Why, if not, how can we all agree, when we see in the morning the huge difference there is at the time of hearing that it is a health system? We saw it today; in this Parliament it is seen and has been seen many times that, well, the world at the end, and this Parliament in a certain way, is divided between a people who believe that salvation is a commodity and a people that we believe is a right. And so now it looks like we're all on board. It's okay to agree, but it makes me think that everything that we're doing today may not mean anything. Because before Congresswoman Escarp was talking about the year 2014, she was quoting something from..., in 1978 the Alma-Ata conference in Doha..., she was talking about everything. This is 2016, and we'll approve it, and we'll approve it together. But let me keep looking at the time to put up a lot of expectations. There is a time to work, to work and to think together what we have to do; let's hope that once and for all, then, you serve for something, and not just to look at the workers and say to them: "Hey, count on our support. Let's hope this time I've served for something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.156.0	Thank you, Mr. Fachin. Next, to fix his position, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.157.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, well, let's take another look at the current primary care system we have in Catalonia, this time in the hands of Ciutadans. And, well, I won't be as cautious as Congressman Fachin was, because I'll say clearly, won't I? , which seems to me that Mr Soler, who presents us today with this young man, I think he presents a little ambitious, with little « success, with little commitment, I suppose, because it can be approved unanimously..., and that we celebrate it – Mr Soler, but he gives us the feeling..., and I say it with all the respect and all the affection that I have, and you know it, but I think that they often come here to please the government, rather than to give them serious commitments. Look, primary care is the backbone of healthcare, filter, and union with hospital care, and, still, it's the most abused area of Catalan sanitation. It has been said before: the Department of Health has explained a 20_per_cent of the assumption in these last five years, which has translated into wage cuts, retailing of professionals and fewer care resources. The Metges Union of Catalonia, March 2016, made the following diagnosis: the ICS ambulances have lost 1,064 faculty in five years, a 15.6_per_cent of the staff; as for nurses and administrators, it is estimated that the ICS has lost around a thousand nurses and about eight hundred administrators; as for medical visits, the professionals have gone from making 3,827 visits per metge and year to doing 4,491 in 2014, which is a 17_per_cent more. Therefore, I believe that everyone here agrees that primary care is undermining, therefore, an urgent surgical intervention, to equip it with more tools so much from a human point of view as material, but that, doubtless, before a first test has to be passed, right? And this first piece of evidence... and it hasn't been talked about here, but I think it's the update on the service portfolio. Because we're in a company that's not the same as 30 years ago, right? And that he's wrapping himself up in forced marches. Actually, I think that's what I've been saying in the various committees we've had on Social Affairs, when we're talking about residences and day centres, right? : the fact that the hope of life in Spain and Catalonia is one of the highest in the European Union, therefore, obliges us to redefin many areas, among which it refers to health care. Another of the important questions to be analysed with a magnifying glass is the territorial issue. No one can be unsatisfied, much so that he lives in sparsely populated areas, stretches of the municipalities and larger or smaller towns. This is the government, and it will coincide with me, Mr. Soler, who is the government and, concretely, the Department of Health of the integral plans, right? : great protocols, monograms..., in short, good intentions; but that is on good intentions. The counselor stayed with the cobblestone when he announced last April a plan to reduce the waiting lists to the hospitals with 100_million euros; a plan that was truncated, because his partners denied him the support of the assumptions. But the months have passed and now it still points out that in short we will have assumptions and, therefore, you will be able to pull this plan forward. Well, going back to the House, we will vote in favour, it is obvious; but I must admit, Mr Soler, that your proposals, which we will vote on in a few moments, do not have much recourse or directly affect the patients. We're talking about taking primary care, analyzing and planning health needs, but don't concretely say how; they say that the same needs are for the same resources, but they don't say how. What can be more interesting is that the Government is obliged to submit a comprehensive reform of primary care project, but neither with this – nor with this – has the Councillor, who has already expressed in response to his inquiry that during this month will present the basis for this new plan to the Health Commission. We will see whether it completes or not and whether it will then serve to bring forward the real reform that is being demanded. And, well, I don't want to finish my intervention without showing all our support as a People's Party to all primary care professionals for the task they are developing and for the patience they have before this government's lack of sensitivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.158.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. Next, has the word Mireia Boya, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.159.0	Ben; good morning, everyone. Continuing on with the motions for sanitation..., of the hotel, we have them here, we have them in committee, but for so long we have them in your partial and segmented form. We would like them to be global, so that we can make a radical change from this which I was a sanitizer of today's country. Aué toque was primary attention and was community salvation. Of course; we can do this, not at all. We're late and we're here, then we're here. My first thought, Mr Soler: we did not accept any of our amendments, and look how far we could go and not ask for any radical changes, but we did not accept them. E............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Well, hey, hey, hey, Maugrat this, I'm in agreement with most of the points, and I voted for them. He is unique, that I am so generic, that concretely so small, that we are obliged to do so, because we think that it was his motion that does not include some of the aspects that are very important to us and that could lead to radical changes in demand and to the power of artenher, to bet for that title, management and public provision of this health system of the country today. In the first place, we will talk about the health terminals, and importantly, it can only be obvious that social differences, and the use of this way is determinant of this greeting, as in the past, in the present motion, we are not less than a euphemism. Alavetz, looking at which sectors of this population are cut short, is the effect of this crisis even more so. And let's stick together, please, because we wanted to assume, of a cop for all, it was real, we wanted to speak clearly of a cop; otherwise we did and went back to heaven with euphemisms, and then we ended up not making a lease. If we want to speak of empowerment, we will give primary attention and salute to the community and then become a real Catalan health system. In relation to this, tanben, it is not a question of talking about possible pathologies, but of making it clear that in ester it is not a year of espitallary intervention. In duesau loc, we shared the need for your overall planning of all was primary attention and was community greeting in Catalonia, as well as being specific locals. You know very well as well as methog that you are not madeishes need quartets that you saw in Pedralbes that you are quartets that you saw in New Barris or in Ciutat Vella. And, therefore, you want to ensure that in global planning you keep in mind different realities. And, in a sense, talking about 'globalisations' seems very unclear. In the third place, it was reform that was integrated into what are possible actors, as far as possible, as far as attention is concerned, the timetable to incorporate, so far, in this reform, is associations of malautes, associations of vesins, all those entities that may have a good cause to say, and incorporate as besonh, as needed, and as objective was prevention and promotion of salvation. In what way, five plans for reform of the Commission for Salutation of the August Parliament, apart from adding to the plan of work, a cavalry that is incorporated as it will be valued, and in the current line tanben anauen are our amendments, isn't it? To make it clear that the conditions are to be implemented, to be followed, to be evaluated, to be incorporated from a first moment. And this was a man who wasn't just here. From then on, he's been finely refused, and here, frankly, we were led to think that he's willing to do better, if not, they were partial. Talk about socio-economic indicators, we'll find that I'm a redundant shinau, if I'm economic and what I'm social. It is economic causes that have resulted in society, which seems to have evinced it. And, still, it's used as a concepte, and if it breaks down, it's education, it's occupation, it's a lot of clothes, tanben, it's people, it's families. And that's why we've already planted so many explicit months and talked about social inequalities, a lot in compda, tanben, causes such as gender, origin, ethnicity, etc. And finally, it's important to make it clear that you want to work on this primary care and community health of public ownership, management and provision, then guarantee it was fair air access and now its use. They repeat, repeat, and repeat, and we are weary of this, and enquire again. And speaking of health which has a public management and supply title ester, it is a yellow bed which, when it comes to the water, was water, ladies and gentlemen, a golden tanben of a public ownership, supply and management ester. And he's still in the country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.160.0	Thank you, Miss Boya. Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Jorge Soler, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.161.0	Well, thank you very much. MPs and MPs, first of all, let me thank you for all your work, so you've made it to get what I think we're about to get today. Okay. A brief comment to the company of the CUP: if I understood correctly, you were criticizing that we did not accept their reviews. It's just that I understand that they should have been introduced first. You have not submitted papers, and that is why this Parliament has not looked at these papers. I mean... [[Some applause.]] But, really, we don't make an effort in this sense either, if you want to work in this sense, you know that this Member is happy to listen to you and to speak with you. I, in this sense, have no problem. Continuing with Congresswoman Xandri..., well, ambitions... – I think, huh? And with the same affection that he knows we share and that I have – ambition is to achieve things, huh? Ambitions is to be realistic, it's to be effective, it's to get that maybe other parties – that one doesn't vote and that one doesn't share, so, their ideals – do what one and his voters do to advise him. So I'm surprised that you talked to me, therefore, about being ambitious and realistic, especially you, who know perfectly well that we are certainly going to get reforms that you, your group, might not have, huh? As for the sensibility of the young lady, so if I recognize them, right? , intentionally, it's meant to be conciliatory. I believe that in this Parliament it is easy to understand that who has been working in primary care for 15 years, could have done something much more complex, and, intentionally, has not been so, because precisely what I wanted to do was to reform this. In Catalonia, then, yes it is I can thank you..., thank you for your care. I think you're pretty sure. Actually, this comment that we've incorporated, personally, we love, huh? And, therefore, we have done so. Socialist MP... as always, with you, well, reaching these constructive and dial agreements are easy. Therefore, I thank him for his flexibility as I appreciate it, in this transaction that we have done, that I, for example, on the subject of the finalist assumption was absolutely in agreement, I know that you have yielded a transaction in which, perhaps, I would not, initially, have agreed; but, well, in any case, I know that you, I and some other groups would be aware that this assumption is so the day that, in the background, we will have to make the general debate of the assumptions that are presented. And I finish – very quickly, President, if I may – by addressing, in this case, the Government, to whom the Government has represented: thanks for all of you, it has been very easy, very nice, therefore, to negotiate this motion with you – is the first and has been very good. In any case, we have always incorporated this community salvation thing, a brief comment: we have incorporated it, simply, because I have had the feeling that you wanted to look at all our points. I, in particular..., I'm a doctor..., when they ask me: "What are you? I'm a family doctor. Clearly, my title, exactly, my title says: "Metge specialist in family and community medicine. Many times, the family doctor, we did, even though we did, doesn't mean we don't feel comfortable talking about community...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.162.0	Mr. Soler...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.163.0	I'm done, President. That's why we accept it, even though the subject...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.164.0	...is that he's spent a lot of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.165.0	Thank you, President. Thank you all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.166.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. We're calling it a vote. Miss Boya, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.167.0	Your request was a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.168.0	What do you got?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.169.0	1.b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.170.0	1.b. All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.171.0	Two, three, four bis and five.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.172.0	I have been asked to vote separately from points 1.b, 2, 3, 4a and 5. We'll start... we'll vote on those points and then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] So let's go vote. Start voting for point 1.b. Point 1.b_has been approved by 117 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 118 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 118 votes to 10. Next, we'll vote on the 4a point. The vote begins. Point 4a was approved by 117 votes to 10 with 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 118 votes to 10. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The Ministry on Primary Health Care was approved by 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into children's education]] [[302-00081/11]] The agenda item is: Motion following the Government's inquiry into children's education, presented to the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. [[Widow's remorse.]] To expose her, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Please, ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence so that we can continue with the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.173.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. "Today, as at other times, the most difficult task in raising a child is to help him/her find meaning in life. We've sorted these words... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That the microphone doesn't work?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.174.0	Don't you feel it? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause and voice of the background.]] Congresswoman, try it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.175.0	If someone doesn't understand, then I'll explain it. I have sorted these words from Bruno Bettelheim to start defending my young lady because I understand that they reflect very well as we consider it to be education. For us, education is a fundamental part of people's lives and for building a fairer and more equal society. And we believe with the right to have a quality education throughout our lives beginning with our first childhood, which is what we are talking about today. And that's why we want to universalize education from zero to three years. It is, at the same time, about egalitarian educational policies and reconciliation of work and family life. But to universalize education from zero to three years the first one we need are resources, and since 2013 neither the government of the PP in Madrid, nor the government of the Generalitat here in Catalonia dedicate a euro to schools in Bressol. And that's why we, at the first point, do what we do is ask for funding. On the other hand, scientific evidence shows us that education first has a positive impact on subsequent school success, and also on social skills. And this positive influence is especially important in the network of disadvantaged people, who are usually the least esteemed in their families. And that is why we consider that these families should become users of the schools in Bressol. In this sense, we can talk about predisposing policies, since it postulates the treatment of inequalities before it is necessary to compensate these inequalities for the redistribution route. So let's not consider that education spending is a expense, but a reversal that can save us, for example, a large part of the money we spend on school children. For this reason, there is an increase in public places from zero to three years and guarantee their gratuity depending on the level of the per capita income of the family. This measure, in addition to being for the benefit of the children, helps to reconcile work and family life, and we already know that, unfortunately, when we talk about this reconciliation we refer above all to women because they still come upon them. We also want to establish a plan to substantially increase the proportion of children of less-favoured families who have access to education before the age of three. On the other hand, if we really believe that child education is very important, we need to recognize and value the work of the people who work there. And it's the administration's job to do it in the best possible conditions. Unfortunately, it's not what's happening today, as educators and auxiliaries consider that they have little recognizable and poorly paid work. We cannot continue to have auxiliaries that cover 400_euros the month we keep more political syringuites and higher than anyone else. It may be recalled, moreover, that once Mr Puigdemont is president, we have more responsibilities, but we also have more barracks. And what we're asking for is more bats and fewer corbats. And because educators can take care of quality for small peer-reached education in the classroom and an increase in auxiliaries and vetlers in the schools of Catalonia. Finally, we want to ensure that most of the students are educated in their mother tongue and that is why we ask to ensure the presence of Catalan and Spanish in all classrooms from zero to three years. And, by the way, we also want to get old because of the presence of spiders in Val d'Aran, without going to the detriment of other Mayan languages. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.176.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sierra. Then, to defend the papers presented, has the words of Mr Antoni Balasch, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.177.0	Thank you very much, President. I'd like to start – I'd like to start – with some very quick previews. First, we would have liked to be able to negotiate, which we have not been able to do. And I guess and I trust that, with the will of City, one day we can do it, because I'm sure it's his will, but we haven't been able to do it. We have accepted proposals or not accepted them, but we have not been able to talk, and we have had some proposals with other groups that could be agreed, from reality, and we all have, and we have been able to make some transactions I think very positive. It's a very fast preview. One: a few days from now the assumptions will be approved, and the assumptions there is what there is. If we want to deceive or if we want to generate false expectations of the citizen... who wants to do so. We don't want to do this from Junts per el Si. We want to approve and we want to go with rigour to what is being paid and to what we can give to the citizen. If we deceive them... we generate expectations to the most needy, to the weakest, that we cannot give them, and we are missing them, I would say, to the first principle of ethics, and political ethics, and human ethics. In any case, each of you is responsible for what you take with your votes. A previa. The other one. I would like to highlight the action of the Government since always with the immense effort that has been made at zero-three years, an effort that has made the tuition rate increase from 33_per_cent to 36_per_cent, practically, and that surpasses the objectives of Europe, that is, that it is a will not only of a government, of many, therefore; that it has made a curricular order from zero to three, an effort of method, pedagogic to attend not only to the conciliation that is being given here, but also to attend to what is social cohesion and also to attend to the educational quality. Important. One more thing. From this point of view, places have increased; more places have been asked for, many have increased: from fifty-eight to sixty-nine, from 2010 to 2015, in a time when there are no resources. And, incidentally, when it was done, there were twelve thousand empty places yet to be occupied, because they were done in places where there was no demand. So, oh, and so much, if we want, of places, but they have to do the way they play. And this is our will, too. And, therefore, in the case of the Joint Committee, which is the fourth previa that it wanted to do, the LEC speaks of co-responsibility, and you foresee the Joint Committee on which these issues are addressed. What do you mean? Representatives of the Catalan Association of Municipalities, representatives of the Federation of Municipalities, all agreed to respond to the needs of the local world in zero-three education, which is the responsibility of the local world. The department, like the co-responsible, brings money. For what? For the buildings and for the places. But who has the staff is the municipal world, the gatherings, which we know well enough about who we have. Say these words, say that we, in the joint committee, have a policy of third parties that has always been granted: one_third pair, one_third group, one_third department. He has always been granted and worked on this line, and, therefore, there is an agreement. And it's also a social charge. Why? Because with the money that I'm paying the whole lot that I have, I have it all for free, and who else I can pay for social charges, which we think is the fairest and most redistributive cause. So we, with this concept, have tried to make agreements, and I should say a lot of things, but in the time that's left, I think I'll be very fair. A first: it's talking here about making some supplies..., contributions of 1,600, 1,800_euros to each adjunct per school square. Okay. We have introduced, as a theme that has been accepted by Juntes for the Yes, I want to emphasize, a theme by Juntes for the Yes with which we ask the Government of the State to return the contributions or contributions it made. What's this? Eighty-nine million euros coming and not coming now. I'm asking you to do a math exercise: 89_million euros, seventy-thousand school places, if you divide it are 1,200_euros per square. That is, if the State does what it did in 2010, until 2010, we would have it today; we can't have it, because the State has withdrawn it. And it turns out that the Government of Catalonia, which has to deal with the three-six without the help of the State, with the contribution that it made, that it is not there, above, it has to make the effort with zero-three, and here we make the letter to the King, asking it all because someone will pay for it. We're still responsible, please – we're still responsible, please. I'm running out of time and, further away from getting into details, I would like to stress, well, that there are conflicting points. There is a contradiction between the 1,800_euros we want to donate and the gratuity that is offered in the second place; someone explained it to me. There is a great contradiction when we ask for more euros, that there is no, and we ask, that it is asked to the quarter point, that the staff increase. I mean, we don't have any money and the staff will grow. And who has to increase it, these people? The assembly. Who has to pay for it? The assembly. So... I spoke to people from the Federation of Municipalities and the Catalan Association of Municipalities this morning, who were gathered, just in a joint committee, and are scattered about the cost that this will impact on the assemblies. I ask them to put a point of signy, a point of common sense. That is why we would vote in consequence of these arguments. And what we are doing, President, is calling for a separate vote on the 1a point, from the apartment to and from apartment b. And we ask, if it's possible, that in point 2, there are two different paragraphs, which can be voted separately, if they get out. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.178.0	Thank you, Mr. Balasch. Next, the words of Mr Eva Granados, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.179.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, I would first like to thank Mrs Sierra and the Group of the European People's Party for their inquiry into children's education. We share this priority of educational policy, we say that Catalonia needs more investment in educational policy and that we have very important problems in the education of our children and young people; we always talk about more investment in the education chapter, more scholarships; the problem we have of school segregation, and the third due are pending, the third priority is this child education, the first stage of childhood education, zero-three. We followed Mrs. Sierra's inquiry to the councilwoman and found that we missed some of the things that came out in that inquiry and that we later did not know how to read in her young lady. And I also make the comment that maybe it's okay for us to talk about the process when it comes to it, but I think they're always incorporating it into all the debates, all the public policy debates. And I believe that the question of zero-three, the question of child education, well it deserves a substantial debate on the same policy. For us, for the Socialist Group, the education policy and the zero-three policy has a great importance for what makes the inequalities to be removed; we know that the profile of the poor in our home now is no longer the great woman, who was a few years ago, before the crisis, now is a creature; that there is social determinism in our country, unfortunately, and we know that by the name of the books that the seas have read we know what the future of their children will be, and we also know that the percentage of immigration and the collection of immigrants will also mark what the future will be. We know that zero-three education is strategic and that it is what it can – what it can – allow to remorse, therefore, these questions, more, that they have to see with the inequalities. Personal development, social development, emotional development, and also cognition pass because children and children, infants, babies, can also be at school. And, therefore, this educational stage can be a lever that generates equal opportunities, but unfortunately our country is an area where inequalities have also been reproduced. We have an education rate still low; it's true that it's over the middle of Spain, but the last few years have run out: if 2008 was the second autonomous community, at these times we're the earthquake. And unfortunately there is also a determinism of who are the children, the babies who are going to these schools, and, therefore, Spanish origin, high and busy studies..., are the children of the families who are predominantly occupying these places. And, therefore, we need – and I think the young man here has an impact on it – to have this promotion of families that have special difficulties. I want to remind Mr. Balasch that he was now talking about the realities and what it can be and what it cannot be, and we are very much in agreement with making serious interventions and votes, but that we have a law of education in Catalonia that is still in force, that I know, no one has repealed it, and that this law that tells us is that there is a financing of the first cycle of child education..., and that the Department of Education..., unfortunately, of the government of Convergence and Union and..., that we have an abandonment of the responsibility of the Department of Education and the government of the Government of the Government in this teaching. That's the reality. And I think if anything... and that's why my parliamentary group thought that it was accepted by Congresswoman Sierra. We say: "Let the law be fulfilled. It doesn't make up much more in child education, but what we need is that what we're actually predicting is done. And in these moments there is a government that is not fulfilling the laws of this Parliament. And concretely the Law of Education of Catalonia, the Government of the Generality does not take it into account. That's why we fixed on our agenda, and it has been accepted, that it is back to this co-responsibility, to these three parts that we had done in our country, that they have to see with the families, with the Department of Education and with the municipal world; which is not now being done because the government has decided, therefore, to step out, to leave this commitment and this legal commitment that it has for what it does to children's education. For what he does to the rest of the youth, we... he already gave it to the principle that I think Ciutadans has an obsession with the subject of language, and here they put it even in childhood education, they incorporate it. We don't want to go in and talk about the language either, when we think there's no problem in our country's schools. And it is obvious, and we would agree with the proposal, with the motion made by Congresswoman Sierra, for which she makes the study of demand because there are more places and because there is a proportion above all of the least-familiar families, which are those who are present mainly at the schools in Bressol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.180.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Granados. Next, there is the words of Ms.Jessica Albiach, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.181.0	Yeah, nice late. We also want to start agraint to the Ciutadans Group, and in particular to Congresswoman Sonia Sierra, the motion that today presents us about childhood education from zero to three years. We think it's a very important issue. We believe, too, that it is a very recurring topic, which we talk about a lot, but that we have never, at last, just put solutions to it, and maybe today is the day we put the wire in the needle. What we find at zero to three is a desolating panorama. On one side, we have a lack of public places in the city hall that have a lower level of education and more hard work. It is true that Mr Balasch commented that there are still places left, but it is that they are where they do not fall and where they are needed we do not have them. Therefore, there is a mismatch between supply and demand. And on the other hand, what we find is a lack of public funding. The ministry is certain that it closed the door, in cascade the Generalitat also did, and in the end what we are finding is that they have ended up centrifuging the costs and ended up from the families and municipalities, which are already quite exhausted. And this happens, too, as Mrs Granados commented, incompleting the Catalonian Education Law, which clearly states that the Generality has to finance the Bressol schools with an economic module of 1,600_euros per square and year, and, more than that, remembers that there was a compromise with the assemblies to arrive at 1,800_euros per square and year, which has not been completed. And the consequences are very clear, and it's that the families that most need schools in Brazil don't have them, because they can't afford them. And here are two debates, which I think we need to do. One is the function of bressol schools. Practically, it is very clear: those families who have to work with and have no one to let the children take them to school in Bressol. Now, we might have to consider whether this is the best way to reconcile, or we might need to extend the reductions in maternity and paternal care, or give economic aid to these families, so that some children of six months or a year should not be tied up and adapt to adult schedules and should not, presumably, be taken to social spaces when what they really need is the affect and safety provided by the family. So let's think about it and plant ourselves if we don't distort certain processes by trying to get infants and babies to adapt to adult times. The councillor, formerly Ple, spoke of the virtues of child education to prevent future school drop-out. It is true that he has studied, in Complutense there are a few, that they say that schooling at two years and not at three times the school income of the children. If as it seems, therefore, the Bressol school would not only have an assistive function, but would also have an educational function, we would have to set up a band, if we had to fix some objectives or a program for the Bressol schools, but the other, perhaps, is that we have to start considering it as a basic service, and as a basic service, that would open the other debate, which is that of financing. If it's a basic service that helps prevent school failure, it wouldn't go so far in the line of financing a social fee, but of the total gratuity of the service. Yes, I do in a progressive way, because we know that the economic situation we currently have in Catalonia is not too early. And, finally, to say that we would vote in favour practically of all the points the motion has, and also to thank the incorporation of a theme that for us was very important, which was approved in the Social Emergencies Plenary, and that is to promote a program of better scholarships also for the Bressol schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.182.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Next, has the word Mr. Carles Riera, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.183.0	Thank you, President. Well, we're talking text books today; we're talking zero-three education today. It is obvious that the theme of education, that the theme of public education, is a central and central theme in order to advance towards the ideal country model for the majority. Yesterday we had to oppose his initiative, in form and content, as we had occasion to debate in this chamber. In change, today, for what it does to the theme from zero to three years, we think we can start making some passes already from the same time. First of all, we consider that in this exceptional legislature, right? As we often consider it exceptional, we must bear in mind that the decisions we take, from the point of view of legislation, politics, assumptions, are not only measures that we must think about in function of the autonomy that we manage at these moments of the short term, but that they must point to the country model, the model of society, the model of state that we want to build. Therefore, we must think with a strategic mindset, with a structural view and with a country view. The education issue is central and will define us as society and as the country, and it will be a key issue to determine whether we really get a country for the majority and a country for everyone, and a country that is worth it. And from that point on, education from zero to three years, as has already been said enough, I will not abound, it is also a fundamental and central question for equal opportunities, for equity, for the reconciliation of family, work and social life of most families, and it is a particularly sensitive issue for those people in families who mainly take up the reproductive and healing tasks, now as they do most of the time. Therefore, from a point of view of equality of opportunity and equity, not only for the children, but also for the people who take the reproductive pocket, it seems to us to be a fundamental and essential issue..., to give it importance from this very point of view, both at this autonomous moment and in the future, let us hope that soon, that we want to build as an independent country. Therefore, we, as a general principle, as I wish for the future and as we think of this country that we want to build, because of the strategic importance that education has from zero to three years in the field of education and in the social field, we clearly aim for a universal, free, public system, to which the whole population has access, clearly and decisively. So let no one act or worry more about the account, because we are also aware that from here to this object does not come up immediately and with a single pass, but comes up with firm passes and decides that we must start from the same and know where we are going, without doubt or confusion, but they are aware of the reality that we must go through. Therefore, of course, we also support the content of the motion, with which we commit ourselves to the short term, first of all, to require the State to assume its responsibility, first of all, as a matter of principle; secondly, to carry out reasonable amounts of funding for the zero system three years after it makes the Generalitat assume its responsibilities which it has already undertaken for it without overloading the assemblies and without overloading the families, on the contrary, in favour of those families with more social and economic needs being able to access immediately and without exclusion from this type of teaching. Therefore, we approve of the content of the motion, which we will vote in favour with this double perspective: general principles of the country model where we want to go and short-term actions that do not only resolve immediate situations, but also point to the right path. In change, what we can't do is accept his proposal in linguistics. I suppose you don't surprise them. Mirin, the general philosophy of linguistic immersion in the educational field, and in all educational levels, is a contrasting linguistic model, successful, solvent, internationally endorsed, with extraordinary results. And, for that matter, it's no invention right now. A very reasonable political principle is: that's fine, don't spat it out. Anyway, dig in there. And if anything we have to do is improve this philosophy, fine-tune it and apply it to all levels of education. Therefore, if they allow us to do so, we will not vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.184.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. Next, has the word "Mrs. Marisa Xandri", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, to fix its position.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.185.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members, Councillor, Councillor, well, announce that the People's Party will support this young man, that he claims to bet on children, on our children in Catalonia, on the youngest in our society, that they are our future, aren't they? We share each and every one of the points that come forward, that call for a firm commitment from the Government to child education. Because, in the end, here, what it is all about is prioritizing at political time, and we are very clear that education, sanitation and welfare are basic pillars of our society and that institutions have the obligation to age there. And you can criticize the government of the state, you can obviously do it, they're all right, but here we're talking about a competition that's exclusive to this government. It's exclusive. And, therefore, those responsible for how it works, how it is managed, the education of children from zero to three years, I repeat..., we talk about the fact that it is an exclusive competence of the Generality. That said, we should pay back in time. From 2009 to 2013 the investment in this area was reduced to half, until it reached the 2015 assumptions, which did not collect any departures to finance the lars of municipal infants. The previous year had set aside 45_million for the Bressol schools, but in the 2015 assumptions, as I said, they disappeared. In fact, Councilwoman Rigau had already done three years which pointed out the need to prioritise the expenditure of her department on compulsory services, and child education, obviously not. In this sense, Rigau entered into negotiations with the four deputies to pass them this expense. In principle, it was agreed to take only 50_percent of the cost, but finally it was decided that the deputies would pay the entire bill. The network of municipal schools, which belong to the assemblies, should be financed, according to the regulations, in equal shares between the Generalitat, consistories and families. But this system jumped into the air when Teaching, which had to pay 1,800_€ per year per place, decided to reduce its contribution progressively until it reached the current 875_€. In order to compensate for this, the assemblies had to inject more money into it and, in a general way, the quotas paid by the families were considerably increased. In short, a misconception from the economic point of view, which has affected, as I said, the consistors and families. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary for the proper assumptions to include a zero-to-three-year education game until it reaches the 2009 levels. I share with Congresswoman Sierra that you have other priorities, including her rupturist syringuits and the over-dimension of public bodies. Okay. The second point of the motion calls for an increase in the number of places, so as to ensure that you are free of charge according to the level of income per head of the family, with the aim of facilitating the reconciliation of working and family life, another question that is very much discussed but that if we do not seriously pose ourselves it will be impossible to achieve. Conciliation, the magic word and the word recur, but it is necessary to address some of the different areas if we want it to be a reality as well in terms of how schools are managed. Another important issue is the fall of birth, here and there from the State, and from the European Union, which will have to be addressed in depth and which is obviously outside the debate of this motion but which must be taken into account, because we are not doing well. As for the third point, which speaks of establishing a plan with the aim of increasing the number of infants in smaller families... socio-economically disadvantaged people who have access to an education before three years old, we agree, but we regret the lack of concreteness, because it makes sense that this can remain in a toast to the sun. And, therefore, we ask the proposer of the young man to do a thorough follow-up that this plan can accomplish. And as for the professionals and professionals of the schools of Bressol, we share that it is necessary to increase the number of auxiliaries and vetlers, as well as to guarantee educational pairs in the classrooms there we need. There we don't call pommes don't call, but there we need it, it's obvious we do. Finally, and on the margins of questions of finance and education, the proposed group asks that trilingualism be guaranteed in the centres, as well as in the Aranes in the Aran Valley. We share it in the cent_per_cent, simply because the infants of the stage of childhood education are the most adients to acquire languages..., with the same ease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.186.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the lady Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.187.0	Thank you, Madam President. I will start at the end, for the last point of my young lady, because it is something that everyone, or almost everyone, has talked about, and it is the point at which it is talking about guaranteeing something as fair as everyone has right to have an education in mother tongue, which is a universal right of infants according to UNICEF, and more, according to UNESCO, there are more than a thousand international studies that recognize that mother tongue is a promoter of learning. And it's very necessary... because I brought them a real schedule from a family that after they got to court what you don't give them..., they got classes of Spanish, one of psychomotorism, another..., free friends and, finally, a very important assignment, which is habitable to get out. This is what they have of their mother tongue after a court ruling, because before they had nothing to do with it. What's the problem because students can be educated with their mother tongue as UNESCO and UNICEF tells us? Then, Mr Riera, look, they can repeat it, repeat it and repeat it, but it will not become true: the Catalan model is not a model of success, there is no international study that I say it. And if the tea, one or many, like I don't know them, you take it away from me, leave it at my desk and I'll get there with a lot of attention. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The success model? The syndic alert of the creation of a classist system in public education. Is this a system of success, ladies and gentlemen of the UPC? What are the most curious criteria in time to establish what a success model is. For what you're doing to the papers..., look, Mr. Balasch, you can't come here to do the angry song, and much less to tell lies, because I've met with you, as with all the rest of the spokespersons, and that's why I've accepted papers from all the spokespersons. What I'm not going to do is accept the ideas that you like so that after the government doesn't have to bow to the assumptions. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] their obligation to cover children's education. After... – I don't have time to talk anymore – I accepted, as I said, reviews from all groups. I agree with these items because I think they actually served to make a more complete and accurate text. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.188.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.189.0	To ask for a separate vote, Madam President, on item 4 and item 6, which could be voted jointly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.190.0	Mr. Balasch, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.191.0	For allusions. Before, however, let us make it clear that we would like a separate vote to be taken. I have already said that the 1 bis point, separated from and separated from b, separately, and, if possible, from point 2, each of the two paragraphs separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.192.0	He told me about the 1 bis point...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.193.0	The paragraph to and paragraph b, voted separately. And then at point 2 there are two paragraphs; if possible, vote on the first and second paragraphs separately as well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.194.0	And at point two too, he's got it and the b...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.195.0	Yeah. [[Pause.]] And if I may, now, for allusions... Simply, very quickly, the LEC, it is certain that you foresee the financing, and the financing, when the Generalita has not been able, that I have already said before, because it has had to answer to pay the money coming from the three-six..., an agreement has been made with the deputies because you make an 875_euro contribution for each school place to the joints. Just to make it clear. And one example that I have left is that with the increase in the number of staff that is expected, in a small town with very few children and two classrooms, the increase of one more person will make the number of children unviable in some towns. Let them become aware at the time of voting. And then, for what it refers to to Mr. Balasch's lies, in this case I myself, say I didn't say no lies. Yes, I've been told, the papers... and, therefore, we've met twice, right, and I've been told the papers that have been accepted and not accepted, but we haven't been able to negotiate a deal or go in to discuss the background of each of the points. Thank you, President. [[Several Members are asking to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.196.0	Yeah. We must first ask the authors of the motion, the deputy Sierra, if he accepts this vote of paragraphs 1 and 2; of point 2, paragraphs 1 and 2, which Mr Balasch has asked of us. Then we'll give the word to everyone. Mr Balasch has asked us for a separate vote, from 1a, from apartment to and from b; after 4 and 6, and then from point 2, to vote separately on the first and second paragraphs. But, anyway, that's one thing he has to say to us..., he has to say..., it's the..., he has to tell us... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, huh? You want point 2 to be voted on together with the two paragraphs. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. Now yes, Mrs. Albiach, why do I ask...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.197.0	To ask for a separate vote from point 6, which could not be voted as requested by the company...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.198.0	Together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.199.0	No, no, it's separate; that's why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.200.0	All right. Mr. Riera...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.201.0	To ask for the separate vote from point 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.202.0	Okay. So, we'll do a separate vote on point 1.bisa and 1.bisb; then, point 4, point 6 and after point 2, but the two pars together. Does that sound good to you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Did you ask for point 5 too? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Therefore, it will be 4, 5 and 6. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.203.0	Also point one.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.204.0	Point one, all right. Therefore, we repeat: point 1, point 1.bis.a, 1.bis.b; 4, 5 and 6, and point 2. Right? [[Pause.]] Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's start the vote. We'll start by voting point number one. Start... [[Sonia Sierra Infante asks to speak. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] I'm sorry... ma'am Sierra, I'm sorry, I didn't get fixed, say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.205.0	For allusions, it's brought me back to allusion. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.206.0	But 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.207.0	Menys. Look, Mr. Balasch, you have to learn where the limits are and when you tell them it's not no. Thank you very much. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.208.0	Let's start the vote. [[Widow's remorse.]] Let's start the vote. Please, please, let's get started. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] It's okay to have a good time, but we'll start the vote. We'll vote for point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 122 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on the 1.bis.a point. The vote begins. Point 1.bis.a_has been approved by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point 1.bis.b. The vote begins. The 1.bis.b_point was approved by 69 votes to 62, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 52 votes to 62, with 17 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 69 votes to 62, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been rejected by 33 votes to 72, with 26 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 2. Paragraphs together, first and second. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 62 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The Children's Education Movement was approved by 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Department of Interior]] [[302-00082/11]] The new item of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the Department of Interior, presented for the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose it has the word the lady Mireia Vehi. [[Widow's remorse.]] And I would ask the honourable Members, if you please, to leave in a hurry and in silence. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.209.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, I'd like to greet the guests. Thank you for being here, I am the pride of many of us. With your tireless struggle you have managed to place on the country's agenda many of the human rights violations that have been donated to you. The motion – we talked about it the other day – sets out the truth, justice and reparation as the foundational elements of the construction of a police model based on the foundational respect of human rights. And what we're wearing here today and we exposed the other day with much more detention is a model layout. And as such, allow me, Mr. Counsellor and the rest of the other members of the Council who accompany us, to make a small retrospective of what has been managed by the Council in which we carry a year; a simple retrospective and of concrete cases, of four cases. The first thing we would like to put on the table is that we have already exposed it to the control session, that it is the repeated episodes of illegal relocations involving the General Police and some companies linked to the extreme right and that you have already committed yourself to resolving with the utmost speed. Another theme that shows the management, the political focus of the management of this Council of the Interior are the multiple fines that arrive to various spaces and organized activists on the Law of Citizen Security, better known as "the law bites, and that the disobedience of the same form part of the annex of the declaration of November 9 that in this room Joints for the Yes and the Constituent CUP decided to pull forward. And in another of the areas of the council, a bad name' oasi autonome, which are the legal services of the same council, we would also like to put on the table a couple of cases that, in our opinion, show the management that is concerned: one is the judicialization of the people who suffered the citizens' leisure web of their ancient homologous, Mr. Felipe Puig, which continues to exist, and the other is the demand for arrest, announced yesterday, to a marriage that resisted a disclaimer. We want to put on the table that the marriage had the age of sixty-three and fifty-nine years and that it was in a situation of despair. I'm talking, I'm explaining this a little bit to illustrate the kind of resistance that you need to show. And, therefore, what we have come to question is neither the impeccable management of the judicial services of the Generalitat nor the impeccable function of the head of this office, but what we come to talk about and what we come to question is the political focus of the council, the political focus of the high-level management of security in Catalonia. And that's why we're planting this young man. And what we find is that the department and the council are refusing to take on an observer for the control and the guarantee of human rights to the security forces in Catalonia; the expulsion of the movements involved in the case of Benítez, even if the council is obliged to take action, beyond the judicial sense, for disciplinary reasons; it does not accept the application of a European directive on the rights of detainees, and it does not accept only the directive on the table, but also a complaint from the syndicate; it does not accept to stop using techniques of dispersion in demonstrations, but also to be technical in the hands of an authoritarian system, and it does not accept to recognise the damage caused to people and families under custody. This, along with criminalizing the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra – we want to make it clear, recently we make it quite clear, we are criticizing the political management that is behind the consultancy – brings us to three possibilities, three possibilities are hidden. The first is that you don't want to, counselor – and others – a police model that respects human rights, and this thesis, we say, would worry us. And in the case that this is true, we ask him: what model does he want, what model of advice and what model of police? The second option is that you do politics from pride, it's to say, like..., as it has on various occasions: "We can't bring certain things forward because this presupposes saying that the Squadron Mosses as they are, as they are... This still worries us more, because which logic has this, Mr. Counselor? There can be no public policy from pride, and fewer policies of security. And the third thing I'm supposed to say is that you want a police model that guarantees human rights, you want a council that has this focus, but you don't go to the council, you run the unions. This is a theory and a thesis that we have manifested on various occasions. And if that were true, would we ask you one more time, Mr. Jané, who leads the council, you or the police unions? As far as the three possibilities are concerned, it seems politically desirable. In fact, they should explain to the country how the Interior Council is refusing to have democratic mechanisms to control violations of human rights, and how the Interior Council systematically criminalizes social movements, and how the Interior Council is listening to a debate about the Squadron and the functioning of the State..., i.e. the General Council – I forgive – instead of assuming the political debate that is being held there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.210.0	Thank you, Mrs Vehi. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word Lord Lluís Guinó, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.211.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs, let me make two previous before fixing the position of Junts for the Yes for which he makes this young man. One that has to do with the defense, another time, of the work and the task that develop the Squad's Mosses in their areas of competence. Such a time, it is not usual, is certainly not necessary, in certain countries, that we are continually, in the parliamentary sphere, in the plenary of this Parliament, having the need to express the work of the Mosso d'Esquadra in a comprehensive way, because neither of the meths nor of the masters in a specific and special way at any time. Therefore, it has the effect that, from a parliamentary point of view, from a political point of view, it is certain that if it is very common to participate actively in parliamentary session and defend the politics and the pocket of the Mossos d'Esquadra is because, in general, from a political point of view and from a point of view of political dialectics, we certainly have a problem. We will continue to defend it, even more so to assume that the exercise of police functions is complex, difficult and that what they call themselves, of course, is parliamentary support; but they also call for measures and mechanisms that the Interior Department must put in its disposition to avoid many of the questions posed by the CUP Group on this motion. Because Congresswoman Vehi said everything we didn't accept from this young man, that it's a lot of points, but he left and forgot what we accepted. And we've accepted that transparency mechanisms should be in place and applied to the Squadron's Cross, according to the Transparency Law, and if, at a certain time and in concrete cases, a more compelling concept of transparency is to be achieved, it is going away. We shall vote in favour of this. And it is necessary that the police, even from an internal perspective, have mechanisms to apply this transparency. We defend the role of the Greuges Synod and accept everything it does through the anti-torture mechanism to precisely veto the rights of detainees and all those questions that may arise, at a certain time, in judicial proceedings, which, of course, the practice of some police, obviously, is not of any use. But, somehow, generalizing the doubt throughout the whole body, the collection, as a consequence of the actions of very concrete police, is not the best way to politically justify the need and existence of a police body from a country perspective. We also defended the repair. We approved in the commission of rubber balls a protocol to repair all those victims, basically – not just the case of Esther Quintana, unfortunately, but others, in all cases – of all those people who suffered an injury as a result of the use of these ballets; even so it came to suspend the use of these ballets. Therefore, from this perspective, this Parliament has been sufficiently, in some way, sensitive to what was raised from society and from those plataforms which at a certain time clearly raised a concern from an objective force perspective. Therefore, we also defend that it is repaired and that the protocol is applied, and that it is applied, to a greater extent, with retroactivity. We also advocate that the protocol you have to see with the downsizing of detainees and everything you have to see with the area of detention applies. And if I can modify the protocols, we agree to modify them. And if we agree that the practice of these arrests is done more intensively with these protocols, we agree to defend it. And, in addition, the same squad movements have an interest that these actions, for their own personal assurance, and for all that, of themselves and of persons held in custody, may have the protocols that protect them. And also, obviously, if it is, in a way, subjective a wrong practice, there are mechanisms; not expecting there to be a complaint of the person affected, as point 2 says, but it can also act of offices. And this is also accepted by the Group of Joints for the Yes, accepted by the Department of the Interior and accepted, I think, the same steps as the squadron. We've come to a lot of agreement on this young man. We have also talked about repair and how to end some very exceptional cases that have to do with people who have or suffer from mental illness. We are aware that, more than the same police force, there must be the necessary safety mechanisms to avoid precisely situations such as that experienced by a couple of years ago here in Barcelona, at Plaça Molina, which is a case that at that time has already generated, precisely, that we elaborate and that we work as a protocol and that we take into account, precisely, these problems. All of this will be approved and supported by Junts for the Yes, thinking of the better of the police body. We clearly defend an integral police model, in which, at a certain point in time – which will be properly laid down, which is the new law of the police – local police can also be incorporated with this integrity. And we defend – I insist – a transparent, democratic police. And who, certainly, executes bad practice, there are sufficient mechanisms today to somehow sanction and bring to term, somehow, the need for better...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.212.0	Mr. Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.213.0	...and we defended, and finally, quite clearly – just a question that has to do with the formation–, we defended that the Police School of Catalonia, somehow, prepare the squad movements in the perspective of the defense...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.214.0	He's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.215.0	...of human rights. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.216.0	Next, has the word Mr. Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.217.0	Thank you, President. We all know that our parliamentary group does not always agree with the CUP Group - Creed They are in the debates on security policies, but I must say today that yes, that it is true, that one thing I think we do agree with the Creed Group is that anti-repressive policies are a very important part of security policies. And to speak of policies of full-pulse security that the axes of our country's anti-repressive policies are clear. It is clear that the CUP has presented us with a motion of seven points and a few subpoints, and that our parliamentary group, in order to improve it, we have presented nine papers, of which we have been able to agree or deal with points 1, 7, 10 and 17 of the motion, and that we have presented other papers that have not been collected and that therefore we will abstain in points 2, 3, 4, 8, 9 and 11. And it's a reality that more than half the time we're voting for it, but there's another part that we're abstaining from. And various things about the motion: first of all, I am glad that you recognize the Synod of Greuges, which must do an old job in this camp, and I want to remind all the parliamentary groups that after that we will have to be consequent at the time of equipping the Synod of Greuges with the assumptions necessary to do this job, because democracy costs money, as an illustrious member of the CUP reminded us the other day. And to say that Catalonia has things to worry about. For example, today, Director Batlle, who accompanied us from the rostrum, sent me a letter of reply to a written question I asked a few weeks ago about the 14th of September dislocation of this year to a family with children. I was told by Director Batlle: "The squadron moves have acted correctly; I don't think the protocol needs to be reviewed. And yesterday the president of my group asked the councillor – I also ask him, and I take advantage of the time that the president of my group has before asking him - I do - that the Government of the Generality is withdrawn from the particular accusation of the denunciation of the Andrade street, 2011, which is called for activists and family members five years in prison. What do I mean? That I announce that our parliamentary group will present in this Parliament a proposal for a resolution on the revision of police protocols for intervention in cases of denunciation of families with children, because yes, this protocol needs to be reviewed and, therefore, it is a matter of concern to us. And I also have to say that the dislocation of Plaça Catalunya, the famous police operation of the dislocation of Plaça Catalunya, or the police operation before the enclave of the Parliament, of this Parliament, or the cases Benítez or Ester Quintana have done much harm, to the prestige of the police of Catalonia. It's true, it's not this government and it's not this councilman, but they've done a lot of harm to the prestige of the police in Catalonia. And we know that some of these operations were the result of wrong political decisions and, therefore, yes, we want a democratic police, and 'police and democracy' are not two contradictory terms. Perfectly, in an advanced democratic society, police and democracy must be the same thing. And the solution to this is more formation, as the motion is said; more code of conduct, as the motion is said; revision of protocols when it is called, and there are cases that it is called, as I have indicated, and also transparency. Always transparency, from cameras to the publication of police dispatch data, is a dissuasive fact, which we also support. Therefore, we shall vote in favour of and for ourselves in two places in the House. And good work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.218.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. Next, the words of Mr. Alberto Villagrasa, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.219.0	Thank you, President. Let's see, the truth is that this motion seems to us to be a misconception and a lack of respect for the Mossos d'Esquadra. And I have, yes, to recriminate first the party that gives support to the government, that you have entered the game of the CUP. Just seeing this motion, just seeing the, you, by the spirit surrounding this motion did not have to have negotiated anything; you had to have voted against this motion directly. And it's true. And we wanted to counter this motion with an amendment that no group wanted to sign, which simply said something as simple as: « The Parliament of Catalonia, familiar with the great task of the Police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra, shows its support to its members and recognizes its professionalism in the execution of its duty to veto the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia. And two: "Urge the government to defend the Squadron Squad from attacks on its image by making it complete with its deity. We know badly that no group has signed it, because I think it was perfectly manageable by any group – except for the CUP, of course. And one, in the end, takes the motion that you present and the first thing you read is..., which you can read is: « Against impunity and violations of human rights by the bodies of squadron mossos. I from here, throughout the motion, a suspicion of bad practice, continuous abuse, violation of the law by the mossos d'ésquadra is planned. And in the end it defines what the CUP safety model is; that is, there is no model – there is no model. If there was a model, its model would be to have the police tied with their feet and hands – tied with their feet and hands – to guarantee impunity for those groups that alter the peaceful coexistence of our streets, as happened in Can Vies or in Gracia. Because behind this motion, this is what there is. And you are shielded from saying that the police must comply with the law, that they comply with it, but precisely you want them not to fulfil their functions precisely to allow those radical groups to fail to comply with the law at large. And no; the police are to ensure that we can freely exercise our rights and enforce the law. And if a judge tells a person who has to go to testify, however mayor she is of the CUP, she has to go to testify. And he doesn't stop her, he accompanies her to testify, because at no time was she locked in a dungeon. Because, in the end, the law is the same for all, and the being of the UPC gives no one a range of impunity, even if you believe it is. Or, for example, if a Republican Left Councillor in El Montmell is arrested allegedly related to a four-thousand-plant marijuana plantation, it is because he allegedly commits a crime. So, I ask: what is your model of coexistence? What is your model of social peace? Is this your model? This one. [[The orator shows a photograph to the chamber.]] Is this your model? Is this it? What do your fellow Arran colleagues do? , paint a shot in the front of the Head of State and the President of the Government? Is that your model? Inciting hatred and violence? Do you justify that? The other day he came to me with a chalk to justify I don't know what. How will you justify it today? With a brush and a pot of paint? Is that your real model? Really, by painting targets and shots to anyone's head... it has nothing to do with democracy. And I hope you, this, condemn him. And I'm finishing up. I, look, as long as you continue to make proposals in favour of the impunity of the radicals and against the image of the Mossos d'Esquadra..., the People's Group will face us; face and side the defense of the law, the defense of freedom and the defense of the security forces, and, in this case, of the Mossos d'Esquadra. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.220.0	Thank you, Mr. Villagrasa. To fix his position, Mr. Carlos Sánchez of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.221.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Counselor, deputies, deputies... look, this CUP motion is based on falsehoods, unique and exclusively falsehoods. We might agree at some point. But seeing that what they want is to discredit the work of the Catalan Police, I already announce that we will vote against most of the points. We're not going into your dirty game. We, from Citizens, have been and will always be at the side of our police officers, since, without any doubt, we have an integral and democratic police, comparable to any other European security corps. Look, you yourselves are discredited in your motions, in your interventions, always questioning police actions. You are the crutch of the Convergence Government, which gave you support at the investiture session, which you voted in favour of Mr Puigdemont's question of trust, which you will most likely vote in favour of the budgets. You, who ultimately mark the Catalan political agenda and who are the new partners of the Convergence Government, publicly ask the Government of Catalonia and the Councillor of the Interior, Mr Jané, that the Mossos d'Esquadra, guarantors of enforcing the laws to all citizens alike – that obviously includes the councillors of the UPC – disobey democratic laws and orders of the judges. Of you, ladies and gentlemen of the CUP, I am not surprised, as you not only defend the professionalism and good work that the police of Catalonia do day by day..., but also use it blatantly for their ideological and political purposes. What worries us about the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, and I suppose and hope that to the rest of the groups in the Chamber, is that the gentlemen of Convergence and the Republican Left can vote in favour of this text that to Citizens seems to us to be a total attack on the democratic system and the police of Catalonia. What are our policemen going to think, that every day they risk their lives to take care of all of us and defend our rights and freedoms, when they see that the Government of Catalonia supports part of a motion in which many of their actions are called into question? You, ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, have on several occasions called our police officers « torturers, « murderers, « repressive police and other niceties. They have a councilman here, in the City Hall of Barcelona, Mr. Garganté, who will go to trial for wanting to blame a police officer of the Urban Guard for something he did not do, to assault a keeper, when he himself told the doctor that the injuries he had had caused him to fall by fleeing from the police. Clearly what you are looking for is a space of impunity for all these actions described above. From Citizens we hope that the Government of Catalonia and the Councillor of the Interior will not enter this game and defend, as they have always done so far, the good work of their police officers. Of course, from Citizens we have had and will have, as you all know, respect and solidarity with the victims. It is clear that we want you to be investigated, as is already being done from the Home Office, if a police officer does not comply with the law. But that's what public institutions and judges are for. Yes, gentlemen of the UPC, the judges, those you publicly ask both the government and the councillor to order the mossos to disobey when you are interested in them. From Citizens we have always defended and we will defend human rights, but you, who fill your mouth to respect those rights, are the same ones who called a slave in the Garriga, in front of the house of the leader of Citizens, Albert Rivera, when he was with his wife and his daughter. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, look; here it puts « CUP, it is signed by you. Finally, you want to draw a reality of the police forces of Catalonia that is totally false, but we will not allow it, from Citizens. Fortunately, we have a police in Catalonia, and in Spain as a whole, democratic and that respects the laws scrupulously, as it cannot be otherwise, because, as police officers – and here I am going to speak first person, since my profession, as you know, is that of police – we are obliged to comply and enforce the laws. This motion offends me deeply and I am convinced that the rest of the police, not only from Catalonia, but from the rest of Spain, I would even dare to say that from the rest of the world, it offends them as well as me, deeply. Thank you, President... Mr. Counselor, deputies, deputies. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.222.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Next, the words of Mr Carles Castillo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.223.0	Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon, company and company. Good afternoon, everybody, we're here to discuss a CUP security motion. Well, about security well, no, because the unconscious I think brings them, and they say it directly "Motion on the Interior Department." I would say better 'Motion against the Department of the Interior; you can already smooth it out as you like and say what you like, because I think that's what it is: canya, lenya, fire and crash at the Department of the Interior; his obsession, his pym-pam-pum, his black beast. And here's the key, because we can gather, as we do, some of the points in which his motion concretely takes place, of course we can – and the progress we will –, but we can't accept this motion globally, from the very beginning, for which he translates, for which he distills it, because it's not a motion about citizen security or security policies, it's a motion against the Department of Interior, it's a motion against the Mosos d'Esquadra, no more or less. It is a young man, company and company of the UPC, in which they intend to install the permanent suspension, with which they want the doubt to be deployed above all else. That, too, is true, with an aura, which is also known, of not having cut a plate in his life. We don't believe each other either. But, look, the double card is very good in life and as in philosophy in general, but when you have the responsibility for that public you have to be responsible and lay down the things when there are elements that accompany the doubt, and we would find, above all, that, at the slightest doubt that there is about a concrete action of Mossos, act with force and investigate and bring to light all the negative elements that may have been influencing and turning the operation of what we are talking about into a bad practice. They'll find us here, no problem. If not, companies and companies, doubting is irresponsible. But, of course, this is what you learn to rule, and I understand that you still don't have this view; as much as you influence – and do so very much – on a government, it's not the same as being co-responsible to or with the government. That's why you run away, when you can, because you're aware that you can't keep what you say. It's legitimate, that's all, but I think it's a good thing he says it in his parliamentary office, too. You play to never rule, and therefore play to move 'in a purely theoretical context. They have given up changing the reality outside of the language; in the language yes, here they do change it. But you have given up changing the rest of the reality, because this is supposed to sometimes lower your own plans, and you are not willing to give up your supposed theoretic, utopian coherence. This young man, ladies and gentlemen, is a minor general cause against the body that must guarantee security to the country, and they claim to undermine the credibility and confidence of the citizenry in it. And here they won't find our complicity. And they will not find our complicity as they have found that of the Government of the Generality. And we also want to denounce it and say so clearly. Lords of Junts for the Yes that give recollection to the Government, Lords of the Government, at some point you must say no to the CUP – at some point you must say no to the CUP. Maybe it was this moment, considering that we're talking and asking about the whole Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad. But no; you have agreed, you have actually agreed to this discrepancy. The very honorable president tweets a few days ago, where he hears the CUP drawing when Mossos d'Esquadra acts by court order. By court order, huh? And the CUP, which is not really angry, because they must be good minions, decides to "resolve, between comets, their inconsistencies to raise this government and its future assumptions of dreaves, causing hosties..., forgive, slapping the government in the face of the Councillor d'Interior, thinking that they clean up or store something. Mr. Jordi Jané, are you aware of this? We are. This in the background is a theater, where the disagreements of the UPC and the government will be you. You and exclusively you will return these keyboards to change the CUP collection to the assumptions. Well, you and the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Are you ready to play? Not us. And I don't think the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad And they start to be sick of this strange cognition in which they play to be angry with each other when they make light statements, as happened in this young man, to change from a future approval, which we will see, of the presuppositions. Explain this to the squad that every day they do their job and they do it well. Explain this to people who sometimes expose their lives for our safety, if they happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.224.0	Thank you, Mr. Castle. Next, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehi to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.225.0	Thank you, President. Well, I don't know if this is our opportunity to attack the Interior Department, or it's an opportunity for all groups in the chamber to criticize the CUP, which seems like you've got a lot of winnings. Another previa. We're not going, are we? , against the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, we have said this to the iniciator; we are challenging political management or we are criticizing political management. In fact, we have made a motion – constructive, under our perspective – because we could be challenging a police model in which in many things we disagree and do not agree. That's as good as it gets. I've got a little time; I'll be quick. Together for the Yes..., all that is accepted – transparency, revision of protocols, respect for the Catalan Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture – are things that you are obliged to do for you. And we don't try to generalize praxis; what happens, we understand that a single violation of rights is harmful to all citizens. That is why we insist on these aspects. In Catalonia Yes, it is Pot... – quickly – on the dislocation of the Andrade road. Well, you've voted not at one point, or they say they're going to go away at one point, that it's precisely about managing citizen security, and on the Andrade street it's been a lot of that, but we can talk about it at another time. No, we didn't accept it, and we already explained it the other day. We challenge the totality of your party's security policy. You're the one who's taking us to the National Court. You're the one who gets the biting law out of your hand, and so we understand it's not worth it. In Ciutadans... what you said about Mr. Garganté is a lie, and we would appreciate it if you would withdraw the statement about an elect of our party. Actually, the case is much more complex. And about the slaves as forbidden elements... it's the law bites, other times, that forbids them, and we already understand that you, now, support the PP government and therefore need to be justified. And the PSC... neither against the department nor against the Mossos, I've already said it. I don't know... I want to ask him: for you, responsibility is to avoid violations of rights? Why are we ruling the government, huh? , in many municipalities, and we manage security, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.226.0	Thank you, Mrs Vehi. We're calling it a vote. It's nsha asked... Mr Nuet asked for a separate vote on points 2, 3, 4, 8, 9 and 11. [[Look Vehi and Cantenys ask to speak.]] Lady Vehi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.227.0	To ask if it would be possible for you to get up the 15th point before you vote, the Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.228.0	Yes, we read it – yes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Coscubiela, tell me these points can be voted together, huh? All of them. [[Lluís Guinó and Subirós ask to speak.]] Mr. Guinó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.229.0	Yes, we would call a separate vote from the first point apart, which is: a, b, c and d. We would call the separate vote..., or the joint vote of a, b and c and separate d.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.230.0	Point one, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.231.0	Yes... [[Carles Castillo Rosique asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.232.0	Mr. Castle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.233.0	Yes, President. To ask, too, that I have lost a little, separate vote from points 1, all subgroups, 3, 4, 5, 6, 11, 13 and 15– 3, 4, 5, 6, 11, 13 and 15.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.234.0	Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.235.0	And the subpoints of the first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.236.0	Yeah. We've been asked to vote... first we'll vote on point 1a, b and c together. They're all good, voting for, b and c together, point number one? [[See "No.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Therefore, it should be point 1.a, 1.b, 1.c and 1.d. So, all separated. Then, on the 2nd, on the 3nd, on the 4th, on the 6th, on the 8th, on the 9th, on the 11th, on the 13th and on the 15th. Okay? [[Pause. Lluís Guinó and Subirós ask to speak.]] Mr. Guinó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.237.0	Couldn't we, for one, vote them one by one? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? It's that we end up voting them one by one, practically. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.238.0	Okay. There's the 10, there's the 12, there's the 17..., that these can vote the rest of the young man in a vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] But no one... I've been asked to vote on point 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, 1.d, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, l'11, 13 and 15. No one asked me on the 10th or the 17th... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The 5, yes – the 5 there is. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No... 5 isn't there. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, they did ask for it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, you want us all to vote separately. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They're said ponts, huh? [[Widow's remorse.]] It's said points, we're going to do votes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Before the 15th... before the 15th, we'll have the reading that Mrs Vehi asked of us. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.239.0	If I can help downplay the votes, from point 1 to b, c and d could go together in a single vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay, so, nothing; I tried.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.240.0	I think we tried, huh? So, let's get started. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.241.0	You see, we could vote... yes, we could vote en bloc on 7, 16 and 17.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.242.0	It's the same.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.243.0	And I kept it in bulk, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.244.0	It's the same, leave it now, and vote it all, because... I think... [[Widow's remorse.]] Come on, come on. All right, then. First we'll vote on point 1.a. The vote begins. Point 1.a_has been approved by 99 votes to 32, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 1.b. The vote begins. The 1.b_point was approved by 83 votes to 48, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 1.c. The vote begins. The 1.c_point was approved by 83 votes in favour, 48 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 1.d. The vote begins. The 1.d_point was rejected by 21 votes in favour and 110 against. Next, we'll vote point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 88 votes to 32, with 11 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 10 votes to 110, with 11 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 71 votes to 48, with 11 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected by 21 votes to 94, with 16 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 83 votes to 48, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number seven. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 98 votes to 9, with 23 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8_has been approved by 88 votes to 32, with 11 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 9. The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved by 88 votes to 32, with 11 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number 10. The vote begins. Point 10_has been approved by 99 votes to 32, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number 11. The vote begins. Point 11 was not accepted by 10 votes to 110, with 11 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 12. The vote begins. Point 12_has been rejected by 37 votes in favour, 94 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 13. The vote begins. Point 13_has been rejected by 21 votes in favour, 109 against and one abstention. Next, let's read... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, 14 isn't there. Next, we'll read point 15, as we've been asked, and the vice president will do it, and then we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.245.0	« Repair and guarantees of non-repetition. Fifteen: The Catalonian Parliament urges the Government to publicly recognize the damage caused to dead persons under police custody and their families, to those who suffered cruel, humane and degrading leaflets in the case of 4-F.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.246.0	Let's go vote this number 15. The vote begins. Point 15 was rejected by 21 votes to 110, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 16. The vote begins. Point 16_has been approved by 99 votes to 9, with 23 abstentions. And then, we'll vote for point number 17. The vote begins. Point 17_has been approved by 99 votes to 9, with 23 abstentions. We're done here. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into support policies for families]] [[302-00083/11]] In any case, let's move to the twenty-first point, which is the motion following the question to the Government on support policies for families, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Mr. Fernando Sánchez. [[Widow's remorse.]] And ask, please, the deputies who are in a hurry and in silence so that we can continue with the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.247.0	Thank you, President. absent councillors..., have some thanks that the first words that the President of Parliament always says, after announcing a young man, are: "The deputies, who are in a hurry, please. Yeah, well, it's always had an impact on me. But, listen to me, three weeks ago we presented an inquiry into family policies and we did it – and the absent councilwoman would remember – with clearly constructed hope, willing to give some passage to improve what we said was the first ecosystem of human life, which was family life. When I raised this intervention and the inquiry, I thought, "Listen to me, is this going to come out somewhere? If you don't read it and come up with a year here about or..., if you don't... No, so, listen'm, let's think of something that's really useful for families: a young man with very concrete, plausible measures, making reality to what Mr. Jorge Soler earlier announced as the new maximum that we could put on the frontispiece, which is... – well, one thing is to lower the level – but he said, "Being ambitious is to be realistic. So, I followed this board and made a very realistic, very concrete motion. We would have been better off, surely, if we had presented an ideological motion, wouldn't we? So, I wouldn't know who to talk about the heteropatriarchy and we would have started a deconstruction of the family night... well, that's all... we would have had a good time, and another day we can do it. But in this case it was a very concrete, practical and useful topic, realistic and consumable. And that is why, instead of presenting a full-fledged motion, we have introduced a revolutionary thing, which is a five-point motion, five-point very simple, five-point motion that..., even some parliamentary group has said to us: "In increasing the presuppositional parties. You've put in 30 million, put in 70. And I say, "No, we're holding on to 30. The Ciutadans Group said to us: "Demanin 70_million and no. 30, for the schools Bressol. Demanin 70_millions for universal child-to-child performance. And we kept to 30, because we had the hope that the government parties would lock in the domestic CUP, so they wanted to do something positive, but they preferred not to – and then I'll talk about it. So we made a realistic proposal with three main axes. First, fight the poor. As we say the other day, there are 23_percent of families at risk of social exclusion, 7_percent of families with severe material deprivation... And then we asked 30_millions for the universal game for children to care for to make them lower, for families with more problems, for those who need them most, who need a transfer, an injection of money to be able to cope with their situation. But let's say the other day: there are many Catalan families who have economic problems, and they suffer because of that, and this was the first measure. But we also do: we have a demographic problem in Catalonia, of the sustainability of the welfare system. And there are many women who tell us: "We would like to have more children, but they can't; they can't because of economic problems. Well, we've already approached him. But for lack of reconciliation... – Fabián, are you there, today? [[Pause.]] No, I was there. Hourly reform [[Funnel veils]] "Before I was there," conciliatory; we spoke no more than a moment later than today's plenary. We're planting... And here I want to make reference... – because you have overtaken me, Mrs. Albiach – we ask for more subsidies: 30_million at the schools in Bressol. With the tripartite there were 90; we asked for only 30. You said something surprising before; listen to me, I'll buy it. You see we're both conservatives. You said: "The little children that they need is a family environment, and not so much the day-care center. You broke the speech your party had made so far in this matter. But we go further, and we say: we guarantee schools, because women can immediately join the labour market and have no reason to have children because they can stay back. We work for co-responsibility, we work for conciliation. And last but not least... it's no concern, I understand that ecology is an absolutely conservative measure, to preserve the environment, is to say that in the end we can find many points of agreement. The third point: we talked about low returns, we talked about a universal need to reconcile, and the last one refers to middle classes and demand... There are many families who tell us: "We can't get to the end of the month. So, let's help them out a little bit by reducing the cure of children or the cure of people who are great at work. This young man with five points is what we have proposed, with all the good will that is approved and to come to terms. I'm loving your positioning. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.248.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word the lady Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.249.0	Thank you, President. My group cannot avoid a strong sense of perplexity in seeing the People's Party's sudden interest in support policies for families. In the previous plenary, and now also, it was paradoxical to hear Mr Sánchez in his question to the Councillor – and now explaining it – say that we have to talk about the poor, vulnerability and exclusion from the families, as if the Government had not been in the office of Mr Rajoy who denounced the part of the Law 24/2015 intended to deal with the denunciations and the poor energy before the Constitutional Court, which finally fell on it. It was unusual, it was unusual to hear Mr Sánchez say that Catalan women could not have the name of children and girls who wanted to have inhumane working hours, when Mr Rajoy's government was, helped by the former Convergence and Union, which, in 2012, with the modification of Article 41, stuck to companies the unilateral ability to change substantial working conditions, forcing workers and workers to accept unfinished or stupidly fragmented working days, incompatible with conciliation. It was also unusual to hear Mr Sánchez say that with a fertility rate of 1.3 there was no pension system possible, when it was Mr Rajoy's government, with the help of Convergence and Union, which allowed for an occupation of such poor quality that the new contributors to social security did not reach the minimum that we would need to maintain the system with good health, or that they allowed the new regulation of the part-time contract which enabled all types of fraud to be supplemented with hours; for example, the fraud of making contracts of twenty hours and forcing the double without declaring, situations that certainly affected much more women. It was indignant to feel, today too, and in the past, to Mr Sánchez to wonder about the schools Bressol, when the lack of places of schools Bressol, or also the lack of places of residence for the third age, or the excessively short hospital states, have their origin in the laws of presuppositional estabilitative, which have forced brutal shortcuts in social expenses and which have been transferred to the autonomous communities and to the local administrations. It was irritating to hear Mr Sánchez fill his mouth with the word "family," when the People's Party filed an appeal against the Law of the homosexual marriage of Mr Zapatero, or who voted against our group's motion for a resolution to guarantee the assisted reproduction of women with a female pair or without a pair. Family, deputy? Whose family are they talking about? From the inherited family of Roman society? A heterosexual man – the father's family – the woman's captivator and the children and the girls? A large part of the citizenry is not in favour of this model of patriarchal family, the name of which, of course, derives from the word 'famulus', which means'slave', and which sums up the sense of ownership that is used to working in this traditional type of family. We are many and many citizens who understand the family in a much more plural, comprehensive and egalitarian way. For all these reasons we do not believe that the PP has any moral authority to claim support policies from families. For what it does to my group's position with regard to the motion, we will vote in favour of point 1, bearing in mind that we consider it a transitory glue, while not above the approval of the law of the single child benefit. At the same time, we would like to remind the People's Party that at present there is a social security benefit which is set at 291 euros per year, or 24 euros per month, and that if they want to improve it – which is desirable – they only have to stop voting at the Congress of Deputies against the proposals they are making in this sense. We will also vote in favour of points 2, 3 and 4, despite the fact that we believe that the last two points are only a toast to the sun, that they will not have any effect while the labour reform is not reversed and the social expenditure of the assumptions is increased. And, for what he does at the fifth point, we would vote against it, because we totally disagree with the possibility of a new tax benefit. Setting up a 300_euro per person-to-person upgrade on the IRPF's self-contained tram entails a significant fall in the generality's public resources and is also a regressive measure, as it benefits any family independently of its level of income and wealth. Redistributive policies have to be long-term through spending policies, no entrances. Finally, we want to insist once again: the People's Party must review what it is talking about when it refers to support for families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.250.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lienas. Next, the words of Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.251.0	Thank you, President. When we talk about support policies for families we can talk about many things, in fact we talk about many things; it is so general, the theme, that it is very difficult to specify. But I think that in this young man there are some of the most important issues that we have at this time. Still, it is very difficult to understand that this proposal is being made by the People's Party. In fact, it is very difficult to understand that you are demanding of the Government of the Generality that they do not require of the Government of the State. Because you from the state can also make family policies that benefit families in Catalonia. They could also set aside a vital minimum income and, therefore, make families with fewer resources secure their basic needs; or make all the opposite of what they have done during these years, that it is zeroing the parties for people with disabilities, that it is zeroing the parties for fighting child abuse, which is also giving, and very importantly, supporting families. They have reduced to a minimum the programs of support to young people, to the attention of immigrants. All this is also family politics. And now that you have more influence with the new Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality, the Catalan Dolors Montserrat, I would ask you, if you please, to convey to the Minister these needs, which are very important for Catalonia, and therefore also that you from the State can make social cohesion policies and support policies for families. But, as our will is to build and, therefore, if we have good proposals from ourselves, we will give it back to you, I have already carried our vote in favour of almost all the points, less the last, of which you have proposed to us. Why? So, because we think they're important, these 30_million euros, to get back the child's benefits because the government of Artur Mas, the year 2011, was the first performance it was charged. And a few days ago the councilwoman told us, it's a pleasure that they had already paid everything they had to pay, six years later, that's to say, all those rights recognized to those families who had to pay them also for the same decision to leave without effect that help. We have negotiated this point with the People's Party, because we want to get that benefit back; we want to do it until we get the PEUC out of the way, which is this proposal for the City Law that is to be debated in this Parliament. But let's also make one thing clear. So, we have always said that we are in favour of reducing the number of social benefits we have at these times, which are more than 155 benefits. And, therefore, our proposal, from the guaranteed income of citizens, is that these 100_euros vagin to the guaranteed income of citizens; 100_euros per child, from the third member. Therefore, in the measure that we can achieve this, we will already give ourselves, let's say, for satisfaction. But as this, for the time being, we don't know what's going to happen, and the proposal that came to us from Junts for the Yes went absolutely counterproductive, we have made this deal with the People's Group. The second point calls for another time when this Parliament has already approved. And it's hard for the government to make the speech of wanting to protect families and put zero euros in the schools. This speech is not understood, it is contradictory and fills in the policy of fireworks of headlines to which we are ill-advised. For us, work and family reconciliation is a big issue and we are working on time reform, and this certificate of companies that provide programs in this sense seems a good initiative. And also the fact that the SOAFs are being included in the Social Service Portfolio. Already with the approved motions we could already make a new portfolio of social services, because we have not proposed many, but we are still waiting for the government to start the renewal process of the Social Services Portfolio that they themselves also approved in this Parliament. The point we can't find out is what sets the 300_euro bonus on the IRPF's autonomous tram. Why not on the state tram? It would be a way, perhaps, for the People's Party to exemplify its commitment to families. It's what I gave him before: you can also make support policies for families. They test and see that the answer is very good. And, finally, even though it is not part of the content of the motion, and even if it is not, the councillor, but there is the parliamentary group that gives recollection to the government, I would like to – and it is also a matter of supporting the families – reminding it, to the councillor and to the government, that fifteen days ago they told us that it was still too much of an hour to present itself as a popular accusation to the judges of the Marists. It's been a month. I don't know what we have yet to wait for. Is this government going to be presented, as did this Parliament, as it was voted two times in five minutes, and the two times together for yes voted against it, that this government is present as a popular accusation to the judges of the Marists? This seems to us to be giving recollection, indeed, to family policies, especially of infants who are in difficult danger of vulnerability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.252.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. Next, has the word Ms. Laura Vílchez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.253.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. We all belong here to a freely chosen family, and we all feel it as an important part of our lives. And it's not just my appreciation, but the CEO confirms that the family is one of the fundamental pillars for Catalans. On the day of the inquiry preceding the motion before us, Mrs Bassa, in response to Mr Sánchez, wanted to make clear the importance that the families have for this government with an action that had already been due to the end, which was to be put « families – the word « families » – in the name of their department. After this, the classic empty announcements, press wheels without concrete figures and without calendars, one more. And we're already wearing more than a year of high school. Let us already announce plans over the years and start quantifying and scheduling concrete and specific family support policies. Our group did it, did it, and I will continue to do it. Last March we were already presenting the Law Proposition to guarantee a child's benefit to the younger age group. This is not an announcement: this is action. And we're already hoping that you'll summon the money to start working, because it's necessary to invest in childhood. The data asks us: we have a very high rate of inequality and a very low birth rate. We bet on it, and that's why we started the Commission for Children with a motion for a resolution where we asked that the Generalitat arrive at the current European average of investment in children, which is 2.2_percent of GDP, and that Catalonia invests only 0.9. But we need to do it now, and we want to see this increase reflected in our assumptions. We want investment and facilities, to make it easy for families, to take the experience of being pairs, that we can afford to have children and to keep them can guarantee the coverage of their needs and our needs to reconcile work and family life. Put it easy, guiding, accompanying, giving a hand, assessing the vital circumstances of each of these families. It is also easy to put it in the hands of entrepreneurs, peppers, micro-entrepreneurs, self-employed people, because it is possible to adjust the working hours of their workers to rational and flexible times. Put it easy on children, that all have the same opportunities to access children's education on equal terms. Since today, and with the young man we approved a moment ago, we have a little easier. And women: we don't want to be bad mothers because we want to continue with our professional career. As my companion Sonia Sierra says, in a magnificent article that I recommend you to read, "The club of bad mothers. The conciliation still takes place on the women's table. We work to reverse this trend and work to get a real co-responsibility. To achieve all this, we want effective, active policies that reach the butxaques directly. And that's why we have to invest, but, Mr. Sánchez, we have to do it decisively. I assume that because of the nature of our discussions, you must have understood that your proposal seemed to us to be completely inadequate and that we agree that we have to invest in childhood, that we have to invest in families to ensure equal opportunities for our society, but we need to do it well and once and for all. We won't vote for anything that makes us give up this target half way, and this young man, from the start, put us on the road. Therefore, with the accepted statements, we have seen that the original text has improved significantly, and that is why we will support much of the motion and abstain from the points that have seemed to us to be lacking in ambition. For these last few moments, we'll see each other around here and see each other in Congress. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.254.0	Thank you, Mrs. Vílchez. Next, has the word "Mrs. Gabriela Serra", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.255.0	Good afternoon. Having children today has been one of the most important poor risk factors, said the Foessa report on the intergenerational transmission of the poor. This same study states that the probabilities of falling into a poor situation during adulthood have much to do with the situation suffered during childhood – and this is an impacting fact – especially in the current context, where the poor have increased throughout Catalonia. And that's because we realize that even for those who give the present crisis to an end, as the government of the PP announces, we would have the certainty that the poor is an inherited fact and that the families to whom neoliberal policies force them to live free are making the poor of the future, unless we address the causes and do it immediately. Attacking the intergenerational transmission of the poor means working substantially in four areas: education, employment, occupation and, indeed, the material conditions that these families currently have. And this happens to invest resources and policies in various areas. Some examples: to ensure that education is reversed – it has already been said – from zero to three years, making it free until compulsory and post-compulsory education; to establish a system of universal public health and that medical care does not detract from the good will of the administration of return, but rather becomes a universal right, as was the case before the decree of the Government of Rajoy, as reminded by Mr. Fernando; to bet on a policy of fair redistribution – or, then, a new taxation –; to guarantee a housing, and this, beyond the imperative need to enhance the social housing stock in Catalonia, passes, without a doubt, to limit the pre-employment policy, to ask for a new tax –; to guarantee a housing, and this, beyond the imperative need to enhance the social housing stock in Catalonia, and to ensure that the government, without delay, secures the execution of the administration, secures the execution of the administration, and secures the execution of the administration, Finally, special emphasis is placed on supporting single-maritime families, as well as the large families; and ensuring this has a considerable impact on reducing the risk of poverty, such as the rate of child poverty. We understand that your proposal does not complete these minimums, neither intervention nor necessary policies. Its proposal to strengthen the Catalan Bressol schools, not only above, to equate the loss caused with the withdrawal of the Generalitat's contribution from between 1,500 and 1,800_euros per square. Nor do you say anything about the need to establish a model of school for the whole Principality, as well as a total gratuity for families throughout Catalonia. We are voting on a proposal that includes two measures for the distribution of returns, including that of the Socialist Party, but in no case is it progressive, for which reason it does not take into account the abysmal differences of family returns. And it respects the performance per child in charge, and they don't even get back to the 2011 levels. On work reconciliation, it might seem a good idea for us to better rate public resources to companies that apply conciliation measures, but without a specific plan that looks at the thirty-five hours per week as much as possible or protects women from labour discrimination and without a time-based reform, this is a very small measure and with very little impact. And lastly, respect the SOAF, in order to strengthen it, as it seems to me that it wants to make its proposal, it would be essential to rescue it from the concertation or privatization that the Generalitat has used to implement it, and integrate it into the basic social services. Otherwise, we don't think it's going to fulfill the job you're supposed to do or build a tool for the social workers of the social services. For all this, and in coherence, we will vote against the proposal you have put forward. Two things to finish... – I have one minute left, I can't believe it, I can't believe it! –, two things to finish. Mirin, lords and lords of the People's Party of Catalonia, stop making efforts to present these types of issues, motions, proposals, PR, right? , because only if you stop appealing to the Constitutional Court to paralyze, hold and annul laws such as the Law on Bank Taxes, the Law on Energy Poorness, the Law on Nuclear Power Plants, the Law on Equality between Home and Donation, the Law on Taxes on Empty Habitats, the ILP on Housing– these only in 2016–, possibly a large part of the families with need, of the impoverished families for this neoliberal system, would be very grateful to them. And you allow me to make with something that I'm very sorry to say to you, you talk about bullshit on the front. I would say to you that there are traits that you, sometimes, with these policies that you make, with these policies that you defend, with the economic, social, genera policies that you defend, you do it with a frontal bias. A front line to the right, to dignity, to freedom and to the maintenance of the lives of many families and many people who suffer poor, who suffer inequality, precisely to live in the world we live, who are not just people and who are not free people. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.256.0	Thank you, Mrs Serra. Next, the words of Mr. David Rodríguez, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.257.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs: Before I went into detail, I would like to tell Congressman Fernando Sánchez that I knew so well that it would be my turn to defend the position of Junts for Yes in this young man, so I entered into it with the will of dialogue and hope to reach some agreement. The truth, however, is that once we took her in custody, we understood that we could not give her any type of support and that we would not even present papers, even more so than if we obtained sufficient parliamentary support to ensure that our position prospered. And we decided on a matter of coherence. Therefore, I am already making progress: our group will vote against his proposal because this, and let me say it with all the kindness that can be said, is a small trickster. I know very hard personally for the proposer because I am convinced that he has presented the proposal of good faith, but you present it to the People's Party and, therefore, the PP asks us, according to him, a motion on support policies for families. And it does so after the measures it has implemented from the main institution that governs and that it has ruled until today with an absolute majority, which is the Government of the State. After demanding details from the Government of the Generality, which, as you well know, 80 per cent of its budget is destined for social policies, and to establish spending suspenses on the Generality and the joints that limit the possibilities of these administrations of hard-to-term social support policies, therefore, also to families. You are perfectly aware of the reality of the Generality's accounts and, above all, of how many of the state's institutions are lamina the possibility that the government of this country can make effective the policies that they have now claimed. Do they really want to give support to families? Donations, do not impugn a decree of poor energy that was to be an aid to the most disadvantaged families in this country. Meanwhile, in a situation of prolonged pressure, the government has more than doubled this year's emergency aid for families with children in a situation of poor energy. Do you want to help families with infants from zero to three years old? Do they really want to? So, they keep it easy: they only need to recover the contribution that the State is making to Catalonia with this purpose and that they completely suppressed 2012. With that amount you could satisfy the totality of the proposals that you are making today in this House. Look if it's easy. So, if they want it, if they really want it, they know how to do it, and I can assure them that the Government of the Generality will be happy to be able to do it in the long run. Enguany, with an extended assumption, the Directorate General of Families has expanded the network of guidance services and attention to families with five services to the municipalities of the country. Thanks to the programme contract with local authorities, families with children at risk will be able to go to social and educational intervention services, programmes for vulnerable families in the form of education, education, education, etc. have been increased. Since the Encany department, the pending costs of universal aid have been paid to families with children in the years 2010 and 2011. A total of 147_million. They seem to understand perfectly what that means. Do they really want to help families? They want the Generalitat to finish the necessary policies to do so? So, call it resources. The resources that you, from the State, deny, failing to fulfil your commitments to the Government of Catalonia. Do families care about dependent people? So, incomplete the law when the government of the state should bring in 50 percent of the law of dependency, and, in change, this is only 18 percent. It doesn't seem like we're looking for parties to include the assumptions of 2017, they'll soon have the opportunity to do so in the debate of assumptions, and there we'll need to talk about expenses, and entrances, and, therefore, we'll need all priority, government and opposition, and there we'll show who are the priorities of each. And if we're talking about entrances, we can't afford the way the state has done to prevent the application of our taxes on the part of the generality and so we can offer social improvements to families as well. If they even approve the zero-type bank charges to prevent the Generality from pulling it forward! Do you want to help the families? Do they really want to? Withdraw a labor reform that has caused poor families to suffer from labor. I don't make any more lists. And I have to tell you that I can only hear your young man as an attempt to make you believe, even though you may believe it, but your group has not so far shown that they are concerned about the families of this country, and, frankly, we cannot accept it, for injustice and because you have not helped the families of the Government of the State, nor have you allowed it through your incompliments with the Generality, the laws that you have approved in Madrid and those that you have not allowed to draw forward here. If they want to prove that they believe in families, their group has the tools to prove it. If they don't let them serve, they cheat. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.258.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr. Fernando Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.259.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Thank you for your interventions, for the papers... sorry, it's three minutes? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. I take criticisms and contradictions, but after Pablo Iglesias overcome them very easily; it is to say, quote Gramsci, and say that we all have to ride our contradictions, and move on to another topic. [[Rialles.]] Mrs. Lienas, you spoke about Western marriage; perhaps you like the tradition of Eastern polygamous marriage better, which you never talk about, but well, I understand that the concept of family has to evolve and, indeed, has to be reformed and changed. I would like to thank you, too, for the thought that you have given us; in Ciutadans and in the Socialist Party. We agree, we have reached a deal with the Socialist Party at point 1 that enriches the text. We've come to a deal with Ciutadan's third item referring to our fourth point. I'm sorry you told me that our text was little ambitious. Home, read the motions that you submitted this late, saying that ours is a little ambitious maybe it's a little distressed. I am sorry, too, for the truth, that Juntes per el Si has been taped in the trenches of harm, in ideological pressures, in the obsessions of the processions, escort, and hagin said: "To the PP, neither water. Because then, when they have a presuppositional interbank, when the CUP leaves them stuck in a theme, they have no way of putting the banies in the CUP and practicing ideological promiscuity with the People's Party. [[Greetings.]] Then they come, and they trick us, and see if we talk. So, look, this isn't a good way to get to agreements that we're asking for. Vote against, Mr Turull, of what we say. Ask... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, no, but you're the group spokesman, listen to me. Let us ask – let us ask – to develop what the Generality is already doing; let us say: "It is well done, make a little more. No! No! , against. And, finally, Mrs. Serra, forgive me for saying it, I think you haven't even written this part of your text yet. He spoke of trets. You've lived in conflict zones, and you know what bullshit is. He's got it; I mean, he's got it all around him. We know that very well; we have been to many funerals, too, for trets. Therefore, if it seems to you, we are bringing language and image of the strands of our political debate. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.260.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mrs. Lienas, why ask me the word? [[Pause.]] We're calling it a vote. For allusions, thirty-seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.261.0	Mr Sánchez... – is'msent? , yes – I told him that we were against the patriarchal family and were in favour of a much broader, more plural and equitable family. What you mentioned about the polygamy I assume is a joke, because it's a form of patriarchy even more exaggerated than the one I was quoting. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.262.0	Mr. Sanchez... [[Pause.]] Mr. Sanchez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.263.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.264.0	Why?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.265.0	Mrs. Lienas, I, only, wanted to say that you denounce patriarchy, but of some forms of patriarchy you never get to talk, I don't know if it does them for or because they don't want to hurt sensitivities, but they are, as you said, the clearest and roundest form of patriarchy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.266.0	A separate vote has been requested on point 5. Can we vote points 1, 2, 3, 4 together and then separately on 5? Or the other way around? That's to say... because if you ask for a separate vote from point 5. All right, all right, [[Pause.]] So, let's start... Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.267.0	To ask for a separate vote?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.268.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.269.0	Els points 2 and 5, for one band, and 1, 3 and 4, for the other.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.270.0	Mr. Pedret is telling me no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.271.0	Points 2 and 5 could not be voted in a voting group; the 5 should go separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-10-2502.272.0	Therefore, we can vote together 1, 3 and 4, which was asked by Mr Carrizosa...? Then we vote on 5, and then on 2, if it looks like it. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, go; we're voting points 1, 3 and 4. The vote begins. Points 1, 3 and 4 were rejected by 58 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been rejected by 35 votes to 72, with 23 abstentions. And now we're voting point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected by 9 votes in favour, 82 against and 39 abstentions. Already in the fall... I guess we're done. The session's up.
