ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.1.0	It's part of the session. [[Draft Code of Conduct for Deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia]] [[221-00005/11]] The next item is the draft Code of Conduct for Members of the Parliament of Catalonia. Once they have been processed by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and in agreement with the Board of Spokesmen, let us move to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to determine their position. In the first place, has the word José María Espejo-Saavedra, of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.2.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Catalan Parliament, I intended to start my speech by categorically stating that today was a good day, and not just because the session is over and many of us can also go out to rest, which I believe we need after some things. I was going to say that it was a good day because, with the code of conduct that we are going to adopt today, this Parliament was doing an essential exercise of rapprochement with citizens; a good day because the politicians that we work here would make transparent these marble walls within which we usually shelter; a good day because with this code we assume and accept that politicians, like citizens, are responsible for our actions, and we are responsible for our actions precisely to the citizens and with a clearly increased and special responsibility for which everyone else has. But I also referred yesterday to this code of conduct and I said that, unfortunately, we were starting wrong, we were beginning to fail, even before we had approved it. Some Members began to slip away with a legal trick of their responsibility to the citizens. By means of a legal trick, they deliberately and explicitly took advantage of a privilege, of a privilege that politicians have, of a privilege that no one else enjoys than those deputies in their status as such, which is now an abuse of law, or what is now a fraud of law, as I said yesterday; something that those Members themselves today approved of being prohibited in this code of conduct. That's why I can't say today is a good day. I can only wish it, and I wish it – and I wish it –: I hope it is a good day and from now on Members do not rely on their status to do what the rest of the citizens, the rest of the workers, cannot do. Because – and I'm getting a little deep – that's what this is about: the citizens are our bosses, the citizens pay us the salary; the citizens pay us the salary and it's a good salary, and we have to earn it, and we have to be accountable to them for what we do. And, of course – and I think that is obvious – if we demand that citizens comply with the law, it is unworthy, and I repeat, it is unworthy that we skip it. This code is basically a tool for two very important things: transparency and prevention. From now on, politicians will have to report on our activity, on our meetings, on our votes to every initiative in this Parliament, and answer for it if we do not. No Member will be able to use his office to obtain privileges, gifts, prebendas, or to favor his friends or relatives, as unfortunately we have seen in Catalonia also for many years. Members will have to strip themselves economically, and all citizens will be able to know whether or not Members of this House have interests that can influence their position on each of the initiatives we discuss here. For all that today can – perhaps – be a good day. But it will not be so if we speak grandly of transparency, responsibility and codes of conduct and, at the same time, we defend ourselves and hide ourselves in privileges that you have to be a deputy in order to violate the laws that the rest of the citizens do have to comply with. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.3.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mirror. Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.4.0	Thank you, President. Advisers, Members, Members, the Socialist Parliamentary Group took part in the work planned for the meeting of the Committee on Rules of Procedure in which it was finally approved this code of conduct which amounted to the consideration of the plenary. It is true that this is an obligation deriving from the Law of Transparency, approved a while ago. Worked on the table sis. There was a sufficient text drawn up when parliamentary groups such as these began to provide their views. Our parliamentary group certainly did a few things – I think I remember that there were exactly three of them, the points we presented to the code of conduct – because, in general terms, the text presented, at the Bureau's initiative, therefore, already contained those elements that we considered essential. What is true is that, in the course of the debate and with the input of all the parliamentary groups, some of the difficulties that the practical application of those forecasts could present, and I believe that with the competition of all the groups, the text has been improved, so that it is now a realistic text force, which can sometimes cover some of the needs that, from the point of view of transparency, from the point of view that Mr Espejo commented, of the Members and Members of this Parliament, therefore, were necessary. Now, we're not being naive, because with the contributions that this code of conduct certainly does, it will prevent that, if there is a fraudulent will, who wants to escape from the predictions of the code of conduct I find the way to do it. This does not mean that we seem to be futile, that which is regulated in the code of conduct; quite the contrary, we believe that the definition..., beyond what is strictly possible, could say « code of conduct, that which has to do with the type of relationship which is required of the Members and Members with the other Members and Members, with the citizens, with the groups which tend, in all that has to do with the regulation of the conflict of interests, we believe that an important progress has been made: the same definition of what is to be considered the sphere of the interests of the Member or the Member of Parliament, which went beyond its particular personal interest, and which is to those interests which may be connected by reason with their parents, so that they are involved. We also believe that there is a need for a sanctioning regime, and we also believe that it is necessary to regulate procedures through which the Bureau may, on its own initiative or by some other parliamentary group, require information so as to try to make it more difficult to conceal a situation that may be conflicting, from the point of view of a collusion of stakeholders in the development of our tasks. All this is very positive, we think it is a step forward; therefore, we will support it. Now, let's repeat the message that you don't make us believe, the approval of this code of conduct, that we are all... or that we can all be calm, because it won't be possible to have a situation like they're trying to avoid. No, no, the situations as they seek to avoid, unfortunately, will continue to be possible, and, therefore, what is at stake is a very attentive attitude towards the assembly of Members and Members, to the organs of this Parliament and, obviously, also to the assembly of the citizenry. The later difficulty, the later mention we want to make is the difficulty that exists because this code of conduct, obviously, cannot force third parties, beyond the narrow sphere of the Catalan Parliament. This is something that has been very present in the debate and it is something that must be taken into account if we are to regulate more broadly these circumstances that may affect us in other areas that, with the force of law, may force third parties out of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.5.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. The words of Mr Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.6.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, I think we have good news today, the Rules Committee and the different members of the Bureau think we've worked well and agreed. This does not mean that all the items that everyone has submitted have been incorporated; our group has presented various items that have not been accepted in the end. But, globally, the work that has been done, the best of the Rules, satisfy us. That is why we will vote in favour of this proposal. Today we are doing nothing other than completing the law, the Law of Transparency, the 19/2014, which in its additional fiveth provision mandated to this Parliament to do some dues, to develop a code of conduct that concretely concerns transparency, access to public information and good governance. And that's what we're doing. The syndic, a few days ago, in a report, reminded us that these duets did not yet have them, and today we are catching up. We are particularly happy with two things. First, the regulation of conflict of interest, which in this code of conduct takes a step forward, and this Parliament needed it, because it has had hard episodes of conflict of interest in the past. Therefore, today we know that the control of the interests of the Members and of the surrounding Members, who may collate with the general interest, will be read with a larger magnifying glass. And that is good, in a way, and as a minimum it will make it difficult for those Members or Members who do not adopt this minimum ethical standard. We are also happy with another idea: the idea of the public agenda. Today, who we talk to – especially if they burn us – and who we don't talk to is converted into a public element if we are deputies and deputies. Therefore, yes, we must give to know our agenda, with whom we sit, which affects us at the time of taking our decisions. Therefore, your agenda, our agenda, is a public agenda, must be known. This must cause interest groups to move publicly, too. It's not, in some way, painful, to be part of a group of interests. What is reprehensible is that this group of interests defends private interests in a hidden way and significantly alters the opinions and votes of Members and Members. Therefore, we also believe a mechanism, not absolute, but it helps us, in this pocket, to make it a little better. I said before: there are fears that we have not been incorporated. We still think that the commissions and the functioning of the committees of this Parliament are better. We ask for commissions and commissions, but sometimes we don't attend, and we don't go. And that's a fact that possibly the code of conduct should also regulate and punish. Well, it may be for another ton and for a better amount of the current code of conduct; this could not be incorporated at this time. But, I repeat, I think we're launching a message that's not bad enough to launch it. In the past, a lot of mistakes have been made, but today we are taking a step forward to make no mistakes. We're still on this line, for this line they'll always find us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.7.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. Next is the words of María José García Cuevas, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.8.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, a code of conduct defines the rules of conduct of an organisation to maintain and enhance its prestige, to avoid improper behaviour or that the organisation may be used for purposes that are not lawful or contrary to its priority values. To succeed, a code must be credible, realistic, impartial and well-consensuous. Everything applies to our Parliament, which as an institution must maintain as a priority the observance of legality, from institutional loyalty; it also has it as a qualified duty. We are for these principles, for defending transparency and ensuring the exemplaryness of our behaviour as Members, but we have doubts about the effectiveness of achieving these objectives with the final text of the code; doubts raised as amendments and also as reasonings that we have defended in the working sessions, sometimes – the least – with more success than others. Next, we will discuss the most important ones. First amendment: it is difficult to understand that the agenda should not be updated to discredit Parliament; but that it should be seen as acceptable, prestigious and consistent with the priority values of this House, that Members, knowingly, act against the legal framework, discredit or insult other institutions, urge to disobey or pressure the courts or manifest an explicit and determined will to breach the law. Yesterday we had a very serious demonstration of this, because we already know that our responsibility does not imply adherence to all the contents of the legal framework, but it does force us to comply with that from institutional loyalty. And this is the democratic basis of the prestige of this institution and of the trust of the citizens in it, because it is what protects us all from the arbitrariness and tyranny of a short-term majority. We believe that we did not want to accept our amendments in this respect, because the objective of the code is not credible, because absolutely unacceptable and scandalous behaviour in democratic terms, which unfortunately took place here, is being protected. And we also appreciate a lack of impartiality, because we do not escape that the code will protect some partisan actions: the road map of the insistence and disobedience..., suspended by the Constitutional Court, but to which neither the Government nor the two parliamentary groups that strongly positioned themselves against these amendments ours, Junts pel Si and the CUP. Yesterday we had an unworthy sample. To protect and protect these partisan actions and clearly contrary to the priority value, to the qualified duty of this Parliament, demonstrates the partiality of the code, its political favoritism, and therefore the impossibility of treating all Members objectively and equally. Yesterday we had another pitiful sample. Other aspects that we raise as amendments. Firstly, because of credibility, the code must not be extrapolated in its powers or scope of action; third parties who are not Members cannot be obliged and involved, nor must it be the Member's responsibility to fulfil an obligation they do not have. Thus, article 15 obliges the deputy to know and declare all the interests of his or her grandparents, parents, brothers, children, father-in-laws, brothers-in-laws, spouses or cohabitation partners, and his or her grandparents, parents, children and brothers. The Member must know and inform of any company, association, social network with which any of these persons work or have a commercial relationship. It seems unrealistic to us. Or, Article 18, seems to us to interfere with the privacy of third persons, over which the Bureau of Parliament has no jurisdiction, to compel the Member to apply for and submit statements of income or property or any economic information relating to the activities of his grandparents, parents, brothers, children, spouse or partner, grandparents, parents, children or brothers of the spouse or partner, even if there is only one relationship of coexistence. Or ask for documentation about business relationships, regarding customers or suppliers of any business, of any of the people I have mentioned to you. All this seems to us very interventionist and an intrusion into the private life of people outside the Parliament, without having competence and that we do not think it limits the action of a corrupt – who will always be able to use a testaferro with which he has no kinship. Moreover, imposing on the Member responsibilities and obligations that are not dependent on him is unrealistic, unfair and very ineffective. Another thing is a judicial investigation, which obliges all citizens, but Parliament is not the judiciary. Acting as if it were is improper, discredits the code and is cheating on the lonely. We also believe that reducing the salary to a Member who is compatible with another activity, article 13, is inconsistent with the existence of compatible activities. The measure, far from encouraging the dedication and quality of our work, we believe it encourages the professionalization of politics, which is the negative thing. That is why we abstained in some articles, we keep our amendments alive and we regret that today we ratify a code that is not as realistic, credible, impartial, consensual and effective as we would have liked. And above all we regret that this code supports improper conduct, and that we believe that it detests, and much, the public institution that consents to it. Yesterday we had a show that this code was born touched by arbitrariness and partyism. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.9.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Next is the words of Mrs. Anna Gabriel, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.10.0	Good morning. Banca Catalana, case Palau, Cargo, Generalitat Lotteries, Prenafeta, VVM, Work, Tourism, Planasdemunt, Casinos, Grand Tibidabo, Ferrovial, Europraxis, Estivill, etcetera, etcetera i, unfortunately, etcetera. Someone may feel like starting out like this is great, because, in the end, we're talking only about a code of conduct for Members and Members. But, to us..., or to us, the permanent look we have had working on this code of conduct has been exactly this: try to age to incorporate those measures that may be effective, that may be effective in the fight against fraud and corruption. It is true that this code speaks of other things, regulates other aspects, from the questions we would call, so to speak, of parliamentary courtesy; we have talked about the question of making public the agendas. They are extreme that the truth is that we haven't gone too far; it seems to us relatively well what has been proposed, and, as I say, the look we have had on the code of conduct is to try to incorporate those elements that can prevent cases of corruption and fraud. We are aware– and today the next item on the agenda will speak, will again address the fight against fraud – which, in order to fight it effectively, must be made from different institutions, with practical differences, from different behaviors; but, above all, with a transversal idea, that we can avoid the trivialization of corruption as the main guarantee that this can be eradicated. We, therefore, have focused on incorporating elements of control, external control and internal control, because it seems to us..., and not just to us, the experts say, some of whom have been brought before the parliamentary anti-corruption committee, that committee that a representative of a parliamentary group yesterday criticized that it is not meeting more frequently, but that, in the alternative, what its experts say..., such as the criminal law professor Joan Queralt, who proposed, he himself, that public officials should be held accountable for their family members up to the fourth degree of consanguinity and finality, these measures that they impose on the anti-corruption committee, in the alternative, their parliamentary group does not accept them. Therefore, it is not as long as it is gathered weekly or fortnightly, but as far as you see, the content you know, can be assumed. That's what we've done. We've basically submitted three papers. The first, which called for the introduction of commercial entities also to the logic of conflict of interests, was accepted. The second, which proposed an action by the Offices of the Parliamentary Service, because it served only a short time that the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament had made statements of income, declarations of property and property and that no one faced with that information; therefore, the Offices of the Parliamentary Service would corroborate whether this information could contain any indications of illegitimate, unlawful, and therefore this was accepted, and we believe that it is very positive. And the third point that we raised is precisely this: that Members and Members should not only be aware of our assets and assets, but also of the family network. This thought, I think..., and without being dedicated to accounting for debate time, but, to be sure, it's the one that generated the most debate. There was a great deal of concern about the family network. Why? Because different motives were attached, some of which I will not repeat because I would be ashamed to do so in public, but it was suggested that we did not have the right to demand this information, that it would be difficult to obtain it because with many family members we haven't talked to each other for many years, and that, ultimately, the family was not to blame that we were Members and that, therefore, they didn't have to give explanations. No one escapes that it has been a usual practice to put in the name of family members that richly illegal who have acquired some elective powers. One Member who just preceded me said: "We will soon need to report on the enrichment of family members if we can finally get the goods registered in the name of a friend. Yes, yes, of course, of course; we know that the fraud adapts, the fraud is very modelable to the limits imposed on it, and today we have a magnifying glass in the most clean family members, not until the fourth degree, finally, but until the second, and someone, who has greed gains, will obviously find a friend to put them to..., this wealth that could have been obtained. [[Widow's remorse.]] There are just two things I'm worried about. And I don't know if I have the citizen's partner who's spoken, but I think we've studied in different law schools. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] The one I know about right-wing has little to do with what he's been up to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.11.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.12.0	...that it's right-handed. And I think we've been, too, in different commissions, for the representative of the PP. At no point have we talked about full road, nor at any moment have I felt that you have anything to do with seeing the code of conduct with full road to independence. I assure you that I would also be interested in talking about democracy in this code of conduct. In any case, welcome, because you have a new reading to add to the one you have just heard from the Rules, the Constitution and the constitutional interlocutors. Now you can also read the code of conduct as an independenceist key. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.13.0	Thank you, Mrs. Gabriel. Next, has the word Lord Lluís Corominas, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.14.0	Good morning, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, Councillors and almost all MPs... which makes a lot of fun for a code of conduct and this morning. I also express satisfaction that I have taken this code of conduct to the approval and that I have done so with this consensus, despite the small questions that have been expressed in the people who have spoken. In fact, it is an expression of the institutional autonomy that gives us 58.1 of the Statute, the Parliament has this ability to self-regulate, and we remember that all this is from the Law of Transparency, which obliges us..., that it was an important law, a law that causes structural changes in our society and that, in fact, therefore, this code of conduct is also not an expression. Basically, the code of conduct is expressed with basic principles, with rules of understanding for Members and Members, and also with incompatibilities and conflicts of interest. It's a good text. In the end, all the items that we presented were admitted except one, which refers to the fact that the senator of parliamentary designation is also under this code of conduct. In the end it was not accepted, and, therefore, it is our only concern that it was not transacted or accepted. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'd like to point out five points. On the one hand, the Members' public agenda, as has already been said. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] It's important, this transparency exercise, despite the difficulties...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.15.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.16.0	...that it carries in the day-to-day. In fact, this agenda of Members of Parliament today will still not be available this possibility, because we are trying to create a platform that, together with the Government of the Generality, has a common basis, and that, therefore, both the lobbyists and interest groups that bring together Members and Members as with the senior members of the Government, Councillors, etc., have a common information platform so that these contacts are easily accessible to everyone. Also the dedication and retribution, the possibility of removing the son of the deputies, who have an assumed compatibility, part of his son. This has not developed, it will be a reason for regulatory development, but obviously we have opened a door on this road. Also the conflict of interests, which, as Mrs.Anna Gabriel said, has fixed it at the level of family members until the second degree of completion and inbreeding. Also the detail of the publicity of the economic interests of Members and Members, with two important developments: one, the degree of achievement and how these data are to be updated, and the other this control of the same chamber of data that Members and Members of the public or that Members and Members of the public start the session period. And also the guarantee system, this code of conduct is not just a statement, in a way, to be fine. There is a full sanctions regime that, in case of non-compliance, will obviously apply. And a reflection on all this. In fact, our job..., the legislature sometimes does a lot of things to manage, but we also have a job of trying to put ourselves at the side of society in those structural changes that need to be done, and I think the code of conduct, together with other standards that we have been doing these past two years, will end up causing a real structural change in our society for the benefit of a greater honesty of public servants, and also a greater confidence of the citizens in all that we are doing. What have we done in these past two years, from the legislature and also from the execution? The law of transparency, as it used to be. You have the report... read it, deputies and deputies, the report of the Synod of Greuges that, for the first time, has made this general report. It is a report that, above all, is not the degree of compliment of the different administrations, but how many administrations, consortia..., and all the public sector that is affected by this law of transparency. Also the Commission for Guarantee of the Right of Access, a new commission that will make it easier for administrations to give more patented information. The lobby register, which is new at European level. The transparency portal, two novelties: if they enter the website of the Parliament of Catalonia, since yesterday, the transparency portal has another format and has much more information than there was. Yesterday Transparency International Spain published the transparency data of the so-called autonomous parliaments and of the Congress and the Senate: we are of the five that we complete everything; the Congress and the Senate of Spain do not complete anything at the level of contract – I say, too, in view of the information. Also the reactivation of the 136th Squadron. I, finally, this code of conduct. All these measures, I repeat, are useful to us fans with legislators – are useful to us fans. As Mr. Pedret said, surely, tomorrow, all this will not have an effect because people, therefore, steal less, that people are less corrupt, be more honest, but it makes it much harder and creates a different legal framework than we had two, three, four years ago. And for the future, this, obviously, should be in favour of a more honest society, a more transparent society. Well, and one last thing. Mr Espejo-Saavedra, today is also a good day, today is a good day for us to carry this code of conduct, but, above all, Mr Espejo, yesterday was a great day for parliamentarianism and above all for democracy. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.17.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Corominas. Once the debate is over, we will take a single vote to ratify the Code of Conduct for Members of the Parliament of Catalonia, which was approved by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on 25 July. So now we're calling for a vote. [[Long break.]] We will vote on the code of conduct of the... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Vice President, here too. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] Let's start... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Quiet, please, we'll vote. We begin the vote on the Code of Conduct of the Deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia. The vote begins. The Code of Conduct of the Deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia has been approved by 131 votes in favour, against and against. [[Greetings.]] [[Procedure for choosing the director of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia]] [[284-00009/11]] Procedure for choosing the director of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia. In accordance with Article 9.2 of Law 14/2008 of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia, a candidature was submitted on the proposal of the President of the Generality and yesterday, December 27th, the Commission of Institutional Affers substantiated the appearance of the proposed candidate. As the parliamentary groups in Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the People's Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed have asked to intervene, we will open a turn of interventions for a maximum of three minutes. In the first place, has the word Lord Carlos Carrizosa of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.18.0	Thank you, Madam President. We are going to abstain for the following reasons: the method of appointing the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office to..., in our view, does not sufficiently guarantee the impartiality of the Director of the Office. That is why, just a week ago, we tabled an amendment, a proposal for a law amending the method of appointing the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office, and we regret that the urgency of this appointment has prevailed over a better method, such as that proposed by us. We must also say that the candidate comes from the High Court of Justice, it is a body in which judges are appointed – as is known – with the intervention of politicians. The judges who go there, in addition, judge outlawed politicians. The High Court of Justice, moreover, in Catalonia, is becoming a nursery for office appointments, reliable staff, office directors such as Transparency and now also in the Anti-Fraud Office. We believe in the honorability of the judge who is appointed, but we also do not know that he understood of complaints lodged against the President of the Generalitat and against other Members, in exercise of their functions in the High Court of Justice. We also know that in the High Court of Justice there are complaints, that there has been criticism of the lack of speed, in particular against Mr.Artur Mas and others – there has been criticism of the lack of speed. The candidate has also made statements in the sense of showing displeasure because the High Court of Justice would have to understand the complaint for the events of 9 November which was lodged against the previous president of the Generalitat. Despite everything, also the candidate, Mr Gimeno Jubero, manifested – and we believe that it is so – that he..., one thing is his personal opinions and another, at all times, the duty of the judges to comply with the laws and enforce them. And only that personal conviction that he expresses and that we do not, despite everything, have any doubts about his honorability and his performance, for that is why we are not going to vote against Mr Gimeno Jubero, but we cannot vote in favour of his appointment either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.19.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group, do you want to intervene...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.20.0	Thank you, President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour. We celebrate celery – relative, but celery – with what has been possible for a proposal and to be able to discuss it in your parliamentary office. We considered that it was extraordinarily necessary that the period of interinitiation should not be extended in the Anti-Fraud Office, especially, taking into account the fact that this situation of interinitiation had occurred and the extraordinary need to introduce changes in the structure, in the functioning of the Anti-Fraud Office, in order to preserve its good name and image before the city of Catalonia. And, moreover, it seems to us that the person proposed, both from the point of view of his professional trajectory and of his abilities, and also – we believe – of his capture, is a solid and solvent candidacy and we hope – go, we have all conviction – that it will not again produce a situation like that which has brought us here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.21.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Then there is the word Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.22.0	Thank you very much, President. Our parliamentary group was one of those who demanded that you speeded up, and we welcome the fact that you have been there, on the front page of the Anti-Fraud Office, because we thought and are convinced that the crisis that has led us to this situation is of exceptional political gravity, especially when it comes to an institution like this; an institution that needs to be old for transparency, for good practices and that it needs to set an example because they want to also exercise an educational function in institutions, in public authorities and in the citizenry. Therefore, to congratulate us on this promptness, we would have liked to be able to reach a major consensus, but the swiftness we understand that prevails, perhaps, in these circumstances. To say that the proposal that is made to us fully satisfies us. We already knew the trajectory and the value of Mr. Gimeno and all the inputs from our surroundings ask and advise us to give a vote in favour of this proposal. Mr. Gimeno actually appeared before the parliamentary committee yesterday and gave his vision of how... his philosophy with regard to the Anti-Fraud Office. It seemed to us to be totally adjunct to his conception of a rigorous and independent entity and also with a philosophy of own-action with connivance, in collaboration with the others..., with the institutions of the judiciary, but also with a capacity for maneuvering and acting in its distinct and particular context. Therefore, it is a proposal that seems important to us, we collect the proposal that Mr Gimeno himself had to compare quickly to present his work plan and reorganisation of the office. And, therefore, our vote will be in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.23.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. The words of Ms. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.24.0	Thank you, President. Well, we consider that training, merits, objectivity, brilliant resume, Mr. Gimeno has them. Now, we do consider, from the People's Party, that the fact that we know the hottest Catalan political news, the fact that we know the cause of the 9-N, therefore, is a handicap; we said it yesterday and we keep it today. We consider that Mr. Gimeno is capable and has the compromise to deal with this new head of the Anti-Fraud Office, but we consider what we said yesterday, right? That he's not a consensus candidate, and that's not because, until yesterday, we knew that it was proposed the same day that Mrs. Masià, the director of the Anti-Fraud Office, appeared in the past saying, with which we believe that this consensus is said and that it was advertised by press is not real, right? That said, we consider that certain explanations that were given to the committee yesterday as whether or not the continuity of Mrs. Masià, which we believe is not the duty of today, is true that it has been clarified, has not been resolved; it has not been resolved either that Mrs. Masià told the committee, that is, those who do not recognize her authority have been terminated at the Anti-Fraud Office. Therefore, we will not vote against this nomination, but we will abstain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.25.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Next is the words of Mr Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.26.0	Yes, thank you, President. Since the compromise in the fight against the corruption of our parliamentary group, our political organisation, today, for example, the media is based on the procedure that the prosecution has initiated precisely from the complaint of the UPC against the brother of former advisor Felipe Puig for his dealings before the Meteorological Service of Catalonia, and in relation, therefore, to many operations and instant procedures thanks to the activity of the UPC, I think of Innova, I think of the case of the Lleida Llotja, I think of the case of Inipro, etcetera; therefore, from this compromise, it was essential for us to proceed quickly to appoint a director of the Anti-Fraud Office. Let us think, in this sense, that the government has fulfilled expectations and we want to thank the swiftness in the designation. And we want to make it clear that we will also vote for a conditional yes to the director's appointment; a yes, because we think he is a good candidate, who has the right profile, even though the experience has shown us that there is not enough with a good curriculum and a good career path to run the Anti-Fraud Office. There is also a need for maximum honesty and dignity in the exercise of this task, which is clearly that its predecessor, therefore, has not suffered. For us there are three basic objectives that this director must complete and which contain this condition of ours. In the first place, remove the attached director Maite Masià. We don't want the designations of the rotten apple that was Mr. de Alfonso to continue one more day in this Anti-Fraud Office. Secondly, to open a clear investigation to delimit and perimeter who is the abst of the rotten tree Daniel de Alfonso at the Antifrau Office, and, therefore, to know exactly the consequences of his acting as director of the office. I, in the third place, essential, dignify – dignify – this Anti-Fraud Office. Therefore, we will vote today' yes; it is a yes of confidence, a yes, therefore, that these three objectives will be able to last a long time, but making it clear that if at some point, therefore, these expectations are not fulfilled, we will withdraw the trust in the director. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.27.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. The words of Mr. David Bonvehí, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.28.0	Thank you, President. In the name of Junts per el Si, show our conformity, therefore, with the nomination of Mr. Gimeno. And we, like Juntes per el Si, had two great objectives, which we believe to have been fulfilled: the severity – thanks, therefore, to the proposal made by President Puigdemont and in agreement with most parliamentary groups in this chamber – and, after that, to get a good name, and I believe that the good name I think we have got, I believe that Mr Gimeno will dignify, recover the prestige of this Anti-Fraud Office. And we too, like Juntes for the Yes, want to say that we are still affected by the entire performance of the former director of the office, and that, in this sense, we will ask Mr. Gimeno, therefore, to help us regain the credibility and honour of this institution that we believe is important to our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.29.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Bonvehi. Complete the procedures that establish the law and the Rules of Parliament, we proceed to the election. In accordance with Article 9.3 of the Law of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia, it is required to vote in favour of a majority of three_five_parts of the members of the chamber: 81 votes. If I have not obtained the required majority, it must be submitted to a second vote at the same plenary session, in which it is required to vote in favour of the absolute majority of the members of the chamber. The name of the candidate proposed as director of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia is Mr. Miguel Ángel Gimeno Jubero. In accordance with Rule 99.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote shall be electronic and secret. Ask the chamber servants to guarantee the secrecy of the vote. Call it a vote. There's someone missing for... [[Seeing the background and taking a long break.]] We shall proceed to the vote. The vote begins. If the required majority had fallen, Mr. Miguel Ángel Gimeno Jubero was appointed as director of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia, by 98 votes in favour, against and 34 abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Procedure for choosing seven members of the Committee for the Control of Non-Referendary Popular Consultations]] [[284-00006/11]] The 14th item on the agenda is: procedure for electing seven members of the Committee for the Control of Non-Referendary Popular Consultations. According to Law 10/2014, of 26 September, of popular non-referendum consultations and other forms of civic participation, we will now proceed to the designation. I pray the second secretary, Mr. David Pérez, that I read the names of the candidates who have been proposed
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.30.0	« Procedure for choosing the seven members of the Non-Referendary Popular Consultations Control Commission. Candidate proposals: Agnès Pardell i Veà, Mercè Claramunt Bielsa, Esther Sancho i Cepero, Judith Gifreu i Font, Marc Marsal i Ferret, Josu de Miguel Bárcena and Beatriz Díaz del Rio Mollfulleda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.31.0	Let us then proceed to the vote. The reminder that, according to Article 14.3 of Law 10/2014, for this designation is required the majority of three_five_parts of the deputies, 81 votes. In accordance with Rule 99.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote shall be electronic and secret. The chamber servants will also be asked to guarantee the secrecy of the vote. Let us therefore proceed to the vote of the seven members of the Committee for the Control of Non-Referendary People's Consultations. The vote begins. The seven members of the Commission for the Control of Non-Referendary People's Consultations have been approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] So that's 131 votes in favour. [[Proposal for the Law of Adaptation of the Law 30/2010, of August 3, of Vegueries, to the new region of Moianès and to the creation of the Vegueria of Penedès (debate of totality)]] [[202-00035/11]] The dot of the order of the day is: debate of totality of the proposed law of adaptation of the Law 30/2010, of 3 August, of vogueries, to the new region of the Moianes and to the creation of the voguery of the Penedes. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative will be presented to the four parliamentary groups proposing a maximum of two minutes each. In the first place, has the word Ms. Eva Martínez, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.32.0	Thank you, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.33.0	Yeah, I can start now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.34.0	MPs, MPs, I want to greet, first of all, all the people and institutions of the Penedès that are accompanying us today. I don't know if there's anyone from Moianès too... to say hello to her, too. And it's that today we begin the debate of the Law's Law's adaptation proposal to the new region of Moianès and the creation of Penedès as ever. The first part is very clear with the title. The last legislature approved for the vast majority the creation of the Moianès region. Some municipalities of this region belong to the vegueria of Barcelona, and others to the vegueria of Central Catalonia. With the modification, all will integrate into the vegueria of Central Catalonia. The second part is the one that raises the most debate, while four groups in the chamber wanted to present the proposal jointly. It's about the creation of the Penedès veggiery. And the Socialist Party does it by gathering the voices of the territory. During the last few years, 93_percent of the assemblies of the whole territory, of the four regions of the Grand Penedès, 100_percent of the regional councils, 13 business associations, 131 entities and associations and thousands of citizens to the personal title have adhered to the Vegueria's complaint. Socialists understand that there is a social majority in favour of the new territorial division that breaks with provincial boundaries and recovers a natural and historical space of relationship and municipal work that is already developing. Since the PSC we have felt it appropriate to adhere to the law's proposal and to open the debate with the intention that this is plural and inclusive, and that, above all, it faces with rigour, to give answers to the needs of the territory avoiding duplication and added costs. We believe that this time would have to be put to practical effect as a community of services extended to the whole of Penedès and a council of mayors and mayors where they would debate and push the projects, so that the day would come closer to the administration of the citizen, as we have always defended the socialists. Today we begin the process that will open the debate in the legislative committee, with appearances, presentation of papers and, finally, a final text on which this chamber will give its view. I mean, let's start a process that will last months. We believe that it is time for the citizens of this territory to know the implications of this law, to initiate a participatory process and to reflect on the territory with the aim of achieving the best possible proposal for ever serving the citizens. And, in this sense, the PSC, which has a large territorial deployment, will work because that's what it is. As we have already said, we do not want to create administrative structures, but to give answers to the needs and problems of the territory. In this sense, we will see to it that during the process of appearances, through you experts and connoisseurs of reality, the documentation presented to the annex complements, with the documents of economic viability and of geographical, demographic, economic and social impact of the initiative. And it's that reality isn't free of reptes, just as the data shows us; I'll just give them a pair. The difference in family income, according to the declared IRPF, exists between the different municipalities of these territories. We have some of the municipalities with the highest income of Catalonia, as can be Avinyonet del Penedès, with 43,031_euros, or Sitges, with 36,937_euros; or, for another band, the Vendrell, with 23,825. But the data also indicate the hardest problem, which is the high rate of the weather. From the old part is the region with an index of the highest of all Catalonia, the Baix Penedès, with a 22,25_per_cent, with June 2016 data, which contrasts with other data, such as a 14,74_per_cent of the Alt Penedès, almost eight points of difference. Socialists understand public administrations as an instrument and not a fiche in themselves, and the voguery must be an instrument that allows the increase of social cohesion and the policies intended for those most affected by the current economic crisis, and, therefore, that undertakes the great challenge of promoting economic growth and fighting against the dark, not giving up industrial activity and acting to avoid the closure of enterprises. In order to avoid these setbacks, it will not only be necessary to create the old age, but also strong policies and government resources against the future and for economic activation. From our parliamentary group we believe that the territorial delimitation of Catalonia must be an instrument for efficiency, the appropriation of public administrations to the citizen and the reduction of public administration costs. If we make a bit of a memo, the father of the debate of the new territorial organization and the Law of Vegueries, approved in 2010, was the tripartite government with President José Montilla in the lead with the intention of modernizing the already outdated provincial distribution. Later, the governments of Convergence and Union and of Juntas per el Si have re-incidentally played the "now it does not touch, and in six years they have done little to throw it forward. In fact, in July 2010 the area of territorial planning of the Penedès was approved, and in his interventions the deputy of Convergence and Union, Mr.Raventós, said: "Now the area, after forever. So, we've had to wait six years. In the previous legislature it was presented, but it went down by the end of the legislature, and, as this legislature has come up, I would not put my hand to the fire that this does not happen again – let's hope not. It is critical of those political parties that have been able to develop this law with responsibility for government, but that have been six years without doing so, and the government has not finally made the proposal and is making it to this Parliament. That said, in these years the Socialists have not stopped working for the Penedian Action Unit, as we have taken back to our positions at the end of the 1980s. We have worked tirelessly to promote the shared management of services through the Penedès-Garraf community, as well as in the expansion of the strategic plans of the Penedès, lock in the Penedès area coarches. In our imagination, if a debate had initially been raised about the old self as a service manager in the style of an enlarged community in the whole field, consensus would have been easier. In fact, we don't go much further than the model that is the metropolitan area of Barcelona and that includes only the thirty-six municipalities of the first crown of Barcelona. From the PSC we believe that this is an opportunity to improve the provision of services to the municipalities that form part of these territories from a closer level and that follow the same territories that decide from the knowledge of the most immediate reality those public policies. And we believe that the creation of the old age should not give to a minimal institutional structure, but to a powerful decentralisation of resources from the Generality to local entities. And I'll explain this idea well. A resourceless lifetime is a dead lifetime, with no ability to act on problems. If there are no resources from the Government of the Generality it will be an empty house, painted for outside, appearance, and nothing for between; it is to say, frustration. They don't call large structures, they call resources to donate solutions. The Penedès, in fact, already has its own management tools, the Penedès-Garraf community is a good example. For years now it has been working as a service structure to the citizen of the High Penedès and the Garraf, and these two communities already work together with the Lower Penedès and with the Anoia in the development of the recently approved Strategic Pla, also in plans of occupation and social services. For another band, the new administrative distribution has to be rationalised and in line with its functional scope. Therefore, there is already an interrelationship between local governments and cooperation. We take advantage of existing structures and transfer resources to the local world. In this crisis, the assemblies have demonstrated their ability to adapt, respond, manage, and lack of resources from other administrations. Assemblies have not only reached families in an emergency situation, but have also been concerned about economic recovery. Many good practices have been developed in the local area to generate employment, retain businesses and promote investment, but resources are needed. Since the PSC we believe that the Generality needs to transfer more resources to local entities, and, in this case, to the most effective level of administration. We must stop tiring the loss and approve once and for all a law of local governments and local finance, which clarifies competitions, which has resources, which shields local autonomy. We insist: one of the main instruments to be used for the proper administration of the city is the law of local governments and the law of local finance. And, in this sense, the PSC calls for parallel processing of the territorial delimitation of Catalonia and these two instruments of central importance for the future of the local public administration. But we understand that while not all the tools that the future Penedes will have in its abyss are deployed, they must take advantage of the plataforms that already exist. There's a lot of work to do. Let's start the debate, work from the rigour to resolve the uncertainties behind this law – finance, the future of the rest of the administration or the content of services – and, above all, let's resolve – the problems of people from the vicinity of the territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.35.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It has the word now, as a group proposing also the initiative, on behalf of Catalonia Yes it is Pot, Mrs Hortènsia Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.36.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, welcome, welcome. We want to greet, apart from the advisers who accompany us and the deputies, all the people of Penedès, of the territory, of the platform – who have also come to see us today – the local authorities, mayors, governors, come and come, and especially the representatives of the Platform for a Vegueria Propia, who today see – or see – in part the fruits of the efforts that you have made since eleven years ago, right? , seeking all the complicitys, the consensus of all the political forces – which has not always been easy–, of civil society, of local and supralocal administration, of the business world, without failing and before a recourse, say so, difficult, right? , with disincentives, tactics, tactical and strategic mistakes and, sometimes, partisan and partisan use that this issue has entailed in these years. Look, I'll focus my intervention on three points, and I just want to focus it on three points because today we have a consensus – and I think it's very important – I don't mean that we don't have to look..., that we have to make a clean picture of what happened. I think it's appropriate to have a little historical perspective on what happened so as not to make the same mistakes again. Therefore, we would make a first point of explaining a little bit as we have come all the way here to be able to look forward with greater clarity; a second reflection around territorial planning and the need to have the partial territorial plan of the Penedès, and a third reflection on the decentralisation and deconcentration of the Generality's services in the territory, in the Penedès, to be able to carry out this principle of proximity and to be able to guarantee a better efficiency and effectiveness in the services that the citizenry reputes, which, in the end, is what conjures us all, right? That's why... so that we can do this principle and, apart from the identity issue, that people can get some better service. Regarding the first point, and very briefly, the recurve. We come all the way here, and the socialist company gave it, from a long way beginning in 2010, when the government of progress approved the Law of Veighers, but we were wrong. I think you're positive for self-criticism, don't you? Because, erraticly, at that time, we did not include the eve of the Penedes, and, somehow, with that law too, we started a little house for the roof. As, then, in the report made by the Council of State Guarantees, he told us, because we did that law but to make that law effective, at the same time, modify a whole series of state laws. It's like, the same time we pushed the vogueries, we had to push a series of initiatives to change state legislation. As a minimum, we had to change the text of local heritage, we had to change the LOREG, we had to change..., we had to make an organic law to change the limits of the provinces – which, in some cases, for example, in the Valencian country..., now it has done so – and we had to change the law of local bases. I mean, in different groups, in these years, I remember the Jaume Bosch, to the committee, that I said, right? , urged that it be modified, that we be able to make these legal changes to the State in order to make the Law of Vegueries effective. Clearly, it's worth it that, in these years, Convergence didn't even try. They can already tell me: "Oh, if we had introduced ourselves to Madrid, we would have fallen. Oh, I don't know. At least, they could have tried. Therefore, in these years, we have not presented these proposals for law to change the organic laws that we need if we really want to have a proper territorial distribution – it is to say, instead of having 4 provinces we have 8 provinces, that these 8 provinces do not continue to be provinces, but we change their name from old age and because instead of having provincial disputations we have hints of old age. In terms of doing this, in 2011, the government of Ciu and PP then, what does it do? The vice-president – I remember the debate perfectly – still makes a moratorium on the Law of Vegueries because they say that it did not touch, that it could not be done and that it could not be developed; but, at the same time, the Parliamentary Group of CiU, in the middle of the municipal election campaign, presents that it increases a more vegatory. So much, huh? , different speeches in different times to give response to different electoral needs. On that occasion, I remember that Congresswoman Anna Simó gave to the Government that she had no intention of doing this and that she did not catch the law, and, as a minimum, that she took advantage of that law to include the eve of Penedès. And, above all, I asked them... man, since, at that time, Esquerra had two proposals for law to bring them to the State, that they vote without them. That wasn't possible, it was that he didn't even agree to vote for a law, I remember, of the Solidarity Group that was then in the chamber, which he was already asking, huh? , the Vegueria of Penedès. This kind of performance... which I think unfortunately was also repeated last year's legislature, when we had it almost closed and Convergence acted unilaterally. I don't think that's gonna happen again, that fortunately we're all together now, huh? And I hope these tactics are definitely parked because we can all respond to the firm will of a territory, of a people and be able to make this sense of identity and relevance, right? , and this collection project. In relation to the next point, point 2, which is the area of territorial planning. Okay. That's also a warrant coming from a 2010 law, or we're, like, six years old, huh? , it was just to be approved in July 2010. And, of course, we're worried that we're late with this. We're late because Councilman Rull tells us, at the last meeting he came to the territory, that it seems we can hold the jobs in 2017. Clearly, here we have a lot of work to do, because we have to do a common diagnostic on many things: on infrastructures that cross the territory, but they do not vertebrate us as territories; on the economy; what paper will be playing agriculture; logistics, we have the great debate of Logis Penedès; from this plate director who has not just had the consent of the territory; we have all the conflict of the paper of protected spaces, water, and above all, as the company also said, the difficult problem of the weather, the highest problem of Catalonia, in the case of Baix Penedès, and the second, in the case of Anoia. Therefore, we need a territorial plan that must have its own identity which must not be a sum or a barrier of the territorial plan of the metropolitan area of the regions of Central Catalonia and the Camp de Tarragona, which must include questions such as the protection of agricultural land – many times less –, urbanisations with urban deficiencies, infrastructure, etc. And, therefore, with this in mind that the government is speeding up work and at the same time, while the government is speeding up work, you, that this can do very well, you must continue to work the municipal, supra-municipal, civil society entities, already acting as usual with this institutional vision, and thus be able to stretch the government and go forward, as you have always done. And last but not least, we have the issue of questions related to the deconcentration and decentralisation of the Generality's services that would be able to deploy with this new age, as, for example, was done in his day in the Lands of Ebro or in Central Catalonia. That's what we're doing – and that's what I'm saying especially to Citizens and the PP – not to duplicate administrative structures, we're doing it to make the principle of proximity work, to be able to give a better service to the citizenry. And, in this case, it will also be necessary for the government to clarify itself. I... I know it's hard, Councillor Jané, because it's just you, but I know it's going to get him to the government... because, of course, here we have Councillor Rull, when he meets with the platform on July 2016, says that the territorial organization is not to be confused with planning and that, therefore, this will not mean that there are new political organizations, such as the appointment of a government delegate to the Penedès or the decentralisation of some of the administration's services. In exchange, Vice President Junqueras, at the meeting on May 25, 2016, with the Platform for a Pro-Vegueria, he said..., he said that it was that..., yes, they could count..., that the Vegueria could count with the same instruments as the rest of the Vegueria and that they were willing to make the appointment of the delegate and that, little by little, they were decentralizing themselves, and that this, moreover, was not to suppose an increase in expenditure, but simply to reallocate the existing resources. A little like it was done with the Law of Moianès, wasn't it? Well, while we don't have the resources, this is going to reassign and so on. I therefore believe that it would be appropriate for the Government here to clarify its respect and, above all, to have a timetable of: if this decentralisation of services is really to be done, as it will, when it will do, with five « times, the theme of capitalities, for example – I know that it is a topic that concerns the territory – where will be its generality, that there are four capitals with vocation, right? Therefore, I believe that these are debates that we will have to undertake along with localisms, that we will have: if it is Vilanova, if it is Vilafranca..., which paper plays each of the capitals. And, finally, because I see that I am running out of time, girls all these reflections and appreciations, I only have to ask them, as the deputy of Catalonia Yes, it is Po and of the opposition, to the government that is putting the piles to develop and make effective this old age, and that we also understand – because many times, here, we combine desires or realities – that while we follow an autonomous community with current skills and the current legal framework, or we change state laws or we cannot actually make effective the old age – we will have what we have in the Lands of Ebro or Central Catalonia – or we will have to hope to have full sovereignty in order to develop our own territorial organization. And what I'm saying is that while we wait for this sobriety or what you have to come here, so that the government also acts and goes on doing everything that it can with the current competition mark. Many thanks, counselor, deputies, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.37.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word now, in representation of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, Mr. Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.38.0	Thank you, President. Well, a greeting to Penedès's company that made it possible for us here in Parliament to deal with what we're dealing with, right? Tell you who's talking to you, you know me, I'm from the glue of the skeptics, those who live in the Navy of the Garraf we see the Penedès every time more far away, a strong relationship, every time stronger, with the metropolitan area of Barcelona. I say that because it's good for us to add ourselves to the eve of Penedes assuming, or overcoming, strong contradictions and strong doubts. And I think that this, along with weakening our position, respects the defense of the life of the Penedès, which makes it even stronger. Despite all this, however, on behalf of the CUP, to say that today we are happy to be here dealing with this subject, a proposal to adapt the Law of Vegueries that may seem like an act of formality more, in the measure that we are doing is to modify some articulations to give cabuda to two political proposals, that of the new region of Moianès and the creation of Penedès as ever, two realities that today we want to be, on our part, justified, not only for reasons of singularity, geography, history, economics, and to give response to the feelings of belonging of the sevagent, but also in the pleasure that they were, a little, the expression of these acts of sovereignty that are the ones that we are here in the Parliament of Catalonia. For those of us who knew, better said, we had to learn, the territorial reality of our country through the prism of domination of power, and the administrative and political division, there were some unquestionable realities that are called provinces, right? It is not strange, therefore, that today, still, who participates in this domination of power is contrary to the proposal that we are dealing with here today. The comarques, the vogueries, the different ways of organizing our territory that allow us to manage our future better, the better ways, came later. Even though they came from the moon, we met them later. They came from the hand of democratic awakening, from the struggle for national and social freedoms. And in this struggle and in this awakening we knew a recent story that had been stuck with us, people of high scientific and academic level, such as Pau Vila, and up to the villain Albert Virella. And all these references were in and out of the realms of democratic, republican and Catalanism, brutally suffocated by the faggot boot now eighty years ago. It is not, therefore, either gratuitous or casual that today, in full political and social debate on the need to build a new independent Catalan republic, if possible, another time, to give response to our people, answers to our territories. Because it's in the mark of this emancipating volunteer that the struggle of more than two years for a time in the Penedès I think there's an answer, unity and parliamentary strength. As has been written, and reminded us of the company Sixte Moral, tirelessly fighting for the future, we have a critical mass sufficient to hold the necessary, adequate and with a necessary quality to co-ordinate our cities; a territory with a human dimension, managed from an assumable proximity; we have cities, cities, towns, cities, dynamics, which generate all an active and powerful network that can generate wealth, and generate it, and its fair and equitable distribution, within the territory, but also as an economic diversification and contribution to the country; we have a territory that substantiates geo-management diversity in a harmonious and balanced way, and therefore the possibility of coexistence of various sectors of production; and we have an economic diversification and integration link; and we have a possibility that the geo-administrative diversity in a synchronous and balanced way, and therefore the possibility of synchronous conservativeness of various sectors of production; and we have the possibility of synchronous integration; we have the possibility of synchronous transformation of self-construct... It is obvious that they are always a region of pace, as is Catalonia. That's the story. But from this situation it will take away the best possibilities in our territories giving them the value of territorial activity. The modification of the Law of Vegueries is a first step, obviously. Now it will be necessary to adapt the old age, for what it does to Moianès, Central Catalonia, and to defend the Penedès as they do to other areas and other ages: a delegate of the Government of the Generality, the decentralisation of the departments of the Generality, a necessary and obliged task to bring to the people of the Penedès the services that are deserved and the services of the country. As we say in the Vegueria manifesto, we want you to have your own in order to manage our own territories, to approximate the Administration to the citizenry and to be able to participate in decisions of the future of the whole country. We want to strengthen the social, economic, cultural ties that have forged our identity, helping to preserve the best, and improve our quality of life. It is obvious that it is necessary to work to co-ordinate citizenship and to work in the collective potentials of our community. Now, when it's almost all to be done, it's time to continue working to confirm more than ever the proposals of the old age; a way of living, thinking and positioning in the country, and also a way of working to get out of the crisis strong, structured as to territories, and also contributing to deepening in the national process. The Penedès, comrades, is not only possible, but in these moments it is all a reality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.39.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Garriga. Then, in representation of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes, will speak Mrs. Neus Lloveras and Mrs. Teresa Vallverdú, who will share the time. There's a word for Mrs. Neus Lloveras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.40.0	Good morning. Thank you, president, the good days, deputies and deputies. First of all, to greet the representatives of the platform for the day-to-day life that they accompany us with, with whom we have been in contact for years, and also to greet the councillor of Baix Penedès, and also all the directors, I think of all the businesses we have, and friends and friends of the territory. I don't know if anyone from Moianès is coming with us, but in any case, if he's following us today, a greeting too. Today is my first intervention in this Faristol of this Parliament, and it is an honor and I feel very – very – honored that I can do so precisely speaking of the eve of the Penedès. Today, 99 out of 135 Members, therefore three-quarters of the Parliament, make a bill to adapt legislation to a territorial reality. As Hortênsia said, "and we made it together and together. Therefore, an important day for this fight of so many – so many – years. What are we talking about? In a very simple way, we are talking about the new region of Moianès and the creation of the Vegueria del Penedès, and we are talking about nothing more than adapting territorial division to reality. And for what reason? Very simple words. In the first place, it has already been mentioned, to achieve a more efficient organization. Why? Because the inhabitants are used to moving 'from a concrete space, and obviously the concept of proximity is absolutely important to improve the organization. And, for another band, also, to promote the socio-economic development of the territory. Why? Because there are important synergies and very important complementations between all four regions that need to be encouraged, there must be a better, a better, an advantage, of the economic growth of all four regions, which, as one of the interventions that have been made, are, at these times, very important. So, what I'm explaining seems absolutely reasonable and normal, doesn't it? That the laws are adapted to improve, that they are adapted to complement the reality that exists at every moment. So, well, we have two groups in this plenary that have submitted papers: the People's Party and Ciutadans. And for what he does to the People's Party, I suppose he's going to defend Mr. Santi Rodríguez of the Garraf. And I'm surprised the People's Party didn't participate. Because, Mr. Rodriguez, you must remember that the year 2005 at the plenary session of the Vilanova Convergence and Union Assembly presented the motion of adherence to the platform and you voted in favour. So things must have changed. Maybe it's that now in the People's Party, anything that smells like we want Catalonia to decide our things seems bad. I don't know. Anyway, it looks like it. He'll explain it to us. Going into more detail, and because I was running out of time, I would like to point out that too often, and traditionally, when it comes to territorial division, only geographical and historical aspects are taken into account, but it is also absolutely necessary to take into account anthropological, economic and social aspects. Why? Because the territories have been creating at the length of time territorial expression nuclei, small mons, areas of feeling of belonging of the population, configured for the passage of time. What she's doing to the day before the Penedès, she's already explained it very clearly, it's a fight more than two years ago, and Eva Martínez said the figures. Spectacular. The gatherings representing 93_percent of the population of the territories are attached to the platform, more regional councils, business organizations, private people... We are very much recollection by part of the territory. Therefore, I believe that it is absolutely defendable. I find it difficult to find arguments against the fact that the eve of Penedès may be a reality. And I wouldn't want to end up without referring to the other point that we have on the table, which is the Moianès, where I think we need to defend that it is also a movement that has come out of the territory. Already 1200 there is documentation that believes that there are independently administered procedures. I, finally, on March 22, 2015, the consultation had a result of 80,6_percent of the votes in favour of the new region. Therefore, here too, a movement of the important territory. For all this, they ask the Members and Members who make it possible that this territorial reality also has a legal reality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.41.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lloveras. Then there's the word "Mrs. Teresa Vallverdú". Five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.42.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Arbocenc advisors, penedesencs, penedesencs who accompany us today from the rostrum, fortunately politics has ceased to be a tool for some and has become the tool of all. Politics is filled with sentiment when it responds to the will of the people. There are examples of continued effort to reach an object that are an engine of this will. The tireless work, the relationship to the territory, the conviction of what it is and what it wants to be, are impersonating without any doubt in the Penedès, a space party, quartered and less for a long time. Despite the administrative divisions, the Penedès continued to function as a natural, geographical unit, with a shared historical trajectory, strong socioeconomic relationships and a sense of identity that has persisted and strengthened. Because the recognition of its uniqueness is not just a romantic aspiration, but an essential tool for the development of policies adapted to the territory. The past has a paper, of course, because the Penedesh is not a reality without purpose, but an area with solid links and long trajectories in time. But the Penedès, above all, has the will to build a common future, and it needs the tools of a lifetime to bring forward its demands and its reality. Penedese is in the middle of one of the areas with the most densely populated, more industrialised and more transitory areas. There's been a barricade reserve, and a place where infrastructure runs without respect. It has grown with no logical planning between two large areas of the population, of which almost everything. And I had to pull it forward with a harmonic development, without dependencies between territories. And that's why it needs recognition as independent reality, which, among other things, will also bring it. And that's why we're here today. We have given too many turns; we have been, perhaps, from this Parliament, less sensitive than what the territory demanded; many times we have not been up. Politics and games we'd have to think about if we could do better with the Penedès. But the society penedenca, encapsulated for the Platform for a Vegueria Proòpia, was an example of patience, consistency, perseverance and willfulness. People have done the work they were playing, now that the politicians do what they want us to do, and we will do it. We are convinced that when a demand is so extensive and most of the games we have to feel our own. People's Party and Citizens don't see it the same, they don't share the need for Penedès to have a suitable space in the country's territorial organization, but we don't lose hope that if they want to be tools to serve the citizenry they will be part of this large majority. Penedès is waiting for them, and so are we. We will also modify the Law of Vegueries because we saw the birth of a new region, the Moianès, that to more than questions linked to the relevance to a concrete space found on this tool the possibility to operate more effectively, and fit it to the map in the wake of Central Catalonia. And we modify it, too, because we want the Penedès, when the old days can work at full performance, you are in equal condition with the other sets. The Penedès doesn't want to be a territory left either in two provinces or in three ages; it doesn't feel like putting barriers where they don't want to, and we need to be able to let go of the relationships, the projects and the will of a territory that it wants to pull forward in the best way. The republic will be born of the will of the people. The steps we take – the country – to be what we want to be and to have a government close to and at the service of people, it has been a long time since Penedès is a fan of building a wake that responds to what we want to be the penedesens. As citizens of Catalonia, we defend the need and urgency of building the Catalan Republic, and its internal organization must also respond to the needs of the people who live in each territory. And at Penedès we want an Administration next to the citizen and connoisseur of our geographic, social, economic and cultural reality. As I understand it, today I have an enormous satisfaction to know that we in Parliament are finally doing the work that touches us. We agreed, we overcame mutual reticence, and above all we listened to people. And today, with the support of four groups, we will repair the historical error of not having endowed the Penedès with one next, and place it in the same starting position as the others. Some Members of this House today will vote on what we wanted to vote for a long time ago. Assemblies, district councils, platform, entities, parties, businesses, citizens, thanks. Thank you to Penedès for never lowering the guard, for not despairing or giving up. We have a path that will allow us to build a country from our particularities and idiosyncrasies, a country as strong as we want and just and balanced as we need. And as Martí and Pol say – and I finish – "Other times will come if we want all the folds; they have never done us for neither effort nor work. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.43.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vallverdú. In order to defend the totality presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.44.0	Thank you, President. Members of the platform, Members of Parliament, Councillor, if they allow us, we will now defend our position – our position. And our task to the whole has been presented under the arguments that we are defending right now, and not under the arguments that those who have presented this proposal from you have put into our eyes. If we allow it, we will do it from our perspective and with our motives and with our arguments. But for everyone's peace of mind, nothing has changed, Mrs. Lloveras, since 2005 – nothing has changed. For our part we continue to defend exactly the same as we defended the year 2005, and put the members of the witness platform. They know what our position was then, they know perfectly well what our position is today. Look, I wanted to make three considerations: one about the Penedès, the other about our conception of what the vegs are supposed to be, and the other about what the Law of vegs is about that you are going to change today. And on the Penedès I am not going to be too much explaining who are the relationships between these four or three communities and now, at this time already perfectly demarcated, because we have had the opportunity to do so on other occasions, on many other occasions since this same Faro and in this same Parliament. It's true that there may be historical features, we can pay off at 1300, but believe that's what moves us to defend the position we defend is not 1300, in any case it can be 2300, which is what worries us and which is where we go. And also, obviously, who are the current circumstances. Of course, we have the geographic, social, economic and even political penedès commarchies. I think the policies... - and Joan Garriga was thinking about it, didn't he? – in the sense of the tension that the metropolitan area, the large metropolitan area of Barcelona creates over these comarques that are peripheral. And to a lesser extent, also Tarragona for the part of Baix Penedès. This is an important element. Precisely Barcelona, Barcelona's vegueria, which practically gathers the metropolitan area, less these Penedès regions that we are not part of the metropolitan area, but that we are also among them. We have always defended the Penedess and we have done more with more initiatives in this same Parliament, in the territories, in joints, in regional councils, and also in this same Parliament. Mrs. Grau, the story doesn't start in 2010 with the Law of Vegueries; the story begins long before, long before. And it starts precisely with some motions for resolutions adopted in this Parliament in the years 2006 and 2007 that call on a government of which its group is a party, which believes the area of planning of the Penedès. And as your government, the government that was part of Initiative, Republican Left also, and the Socialist Party, did not do what this Parliament, democratically, ran it, we would have to put forward proposals for law. And Convergence and Union did it, as the bill that they are voting on today says, but not just Convergence and Union did it. The law that creates the area of territorial planning of the Penedese is the result, yes, of a proposal for the law of Convergence and Union, and of a proposal for the law of the People's Party, which presented this same Member in this Parliament, and which were processed together – they were processed together – and they were approved in 2010, as has already been said. Precisely because the tripartite government in its moment did not do its dues. Second question: the vogueries. What is the view that our parliamentary group has reached the length of the story and continues to hold and has kept the length of time on which paper is to be kept? And the paper that we understand that the veggieries must have is that of the territorial division and that of the territorial organization of the Administration of the Generality. With local government functions? Also – also. And from this point of view, we are absolutely in agreement and would be absolutely in agreement that we are developing evergreens. What's the problem? The problem is that this has not been seen in this way and neither have the different governments of the Government of Catalonia who have passed through the years. I will only give you an example of the need to order the territorial division of the Administration of the Generality. And he was looking at me now at the Councillor of the Interior, because precisely it is the Department of the Interior, which at this time is decentralized into new police regions, which they do not want to see with seven or eight times. The Health Department is the only one that has so far been decentralized into seven health regions that coincided with the veggieries. But, let's face it, that's not thanks to the Law of Vegueries of 2010, because the Department of Health, if it's decentralized into seven health regions, is since the year 2005; well before the Law of 2010. And the proof that the Government of the Generality has not been interested in ordering its territorial services over the years is that we continue with the Department of Education with two territorial areas. And we continue with the Department of Agriculture with six territorial areas. Is that it, have the old days been used to order the territorial services of the Government of Catalonia? No, no, Has it served the law – and now I'm entering the later phase – of vegueries to order the Generality's services in the territories? No, no, It's been approved for years, why hasn't it been developed? Perhaps because the will of that House of Eves was not the order of the territorial services of the Government of Catalonia, perhaps there was another will. Allow me, of course, to remind you, because there was a part of the chamber that was forgotten, that the Law of Vegueries was presented in this very case for the councillor of Republican Esquerra, Mr. Jordi Ausàs – already, just remember it. Did this girl have the will to decentralize you to the generality? No, no, What kind of will did he have? Ordering local governments? No, no, That, by the way, to order local governments the first one we have to do is to remove the local councils, as we have already proposed some time in this very hemisphere. According to old times in the offices of local governments, we suppress the local councils, with all the materials they want, because in the end the municipalities that need to order services together create communities, have the possibility to create communities. The Penedès-Garraf Community is not an example, which has existed for many years precisely because of the need of the municipalities, a set of municipalities, to organize services in a common way. And, therefore, the district councils have absolutely no role to play; that their function is to assume the old days if there really is a willingness on the part of the government to use the law of old days, which has not followed, I insist, because the only intention was to carry the provinces and provincial parliaments. This was the only one and this is the only object of the Law of Vegaries. Why, if not, after six years, didn't this law work out why the government is doing absolutely no good? When it was a law to organize the same government of the Generality, when it was a law to order the local governments that depend on the Generality, why didn't it develop? Because that wasn't the point. The objective was to load the provinces and to load the provincial parliaments which, for example, is the territorial division of the State. And with that, since the Parliament of Catalonia, we cannot order the State. Let's order the generality, which we have to do; I just told them: each department has a different territorial division. We use the energies to do what we have skills and not what we do not have skills. And, therefore, this is the motto of our goal to the totality. If I may, to finish..., to tell Mrs. Lloveras that if we have not participated in this proposal of the law, you know perfectly well why it is. He knows that the platform was meeting with parliamentary groups and the People's Party was not invited. Surely – surely – because knowing, since 2005, what is the position of the People's Party. Surely because I know that, but, obviously, we, where we don't get invited, don't like to go there. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.45.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, in order to present the message presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Sergio Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.46.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, personalities of the territory..., in the explanatory statement accompanying this proposal of law, say: "The territorial division of Catalonia must respond not only to the territorial, geographical, natural and historical spheres, but to the feelings of belonging of the population, configured by the passage of time. But look, it was the passage of time and history that made those vicariates disappear centuries ago. And it is that the evolution of political systems, of thought, of science and of technology make that any claim to seek a reference in those medieval entities cannot be considered more than an expression of pure romanticism, contrary to the values of Illustration and pragmatism. Unfortunately, the historicist account with which they intend to legitimize the decisions of the present is not new in this Parliament. The governments of the Generalitat have been imbued with this spiritualist vision since Pujol put the Administration at the service of that project that he called« built national, with which– 3_per_cent through – he intended to create a sense of belonging in Catalonia, consisting of inventing differences with the rest of the Spaniards, recreating the past and appealing to romanticism to found a mythology. A mythology that was also projected during the tripartite governments, because both the PSC and Initiative participated, as they do today, in the mental framework and myths of pujolista; myths that reappear today by bringing back the Law of Vegarias, which, according to its preamble, intersects with the historical institutions of Catalonia and recovers the political and administrative division that was in force in Catalonia until the decrees of New Plant. We are referring with this law to feudalism: we must recover what was before, we must recover feudalism. It's just, according to his myths, that's his own thing, not like the provinces, huh? ; as this is newer, no, the very thing is feudalism. And less bad that the Law of Veigherias introduced it a tripartite that was said to be progressive, because if it becomes traditionalist perhaps, instead of taking only the delimitation and the name, we are proposed that the Veigherias be governed by a viscount. Can you imagine going to the administration in the 21st century and finding a guy with a cape and a sword? [[Widow's remorse.]] It probably wouldn't contribute much to the efficiency of the Administration, but so, while you queue, enjoy the show. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.47.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.48.0	It is also spectacular that we are having this debate at a time when what we should be dealing with are the policies that we must pursue in order to have better services and services. But what we have to do is to release public resources, eliminating duplication, instead of creating more political structures; even more so when Catalonia already has more duplication than any other autonomous community, such as the regional councils. Are they necessary? If we compare ourselves with other autonomous communities that do not have them, they do not seem to be necessary. However, the regional councils are responsible for spending more than 500_million_of_euro per year, which is higher than the cuts in health carried out by the members of Convergence and the Republican Left in recent years. [[Some applause.]] And why have they cut health instead of reforming the administration? Because these parties that today form Junts pel Yes, they use the regional councils to place trust charges and distribute contracts, and act against the general interest. And now they remind us that they want another administration: the veggieries. And on top of that they justify it by appealing to the feelings of belonging of our fellow citizens towards them. But do they really think there is a sense of belonging [[the timer riu]] to a feudal administration that ceased to exist three hundred years ago? Or is it simply seeking an excuse? Because what is certain is that some excuses are needed for us, in addition to the provinces and the county councils, to have vegarías, each with its president and with its positions of free designation and with its salaries. Sure. Will that not be their true purpose, and the whole appeal to feelings and history, a mere adornment? [[Widow's remorse.]] Do you know what we appeal to – would I ask you if you can listen to me, please – from Ciutadans when we propose a reform of the Administration? To the need to improve their efficiency; to the need to depoliticize the boards of directors of public enterprises, in order to respond to the general interest and not to partisan interests; to the need for such reform to contribute to reducing inequality. Do you know what else? To the need to depoliticize justice and provide more resources, because we are outraged to see the impunity enjoyed by some; among others, Mr Pujol, to which many seem to be terrified every time this threat to pull out of the blanket and to which others, by the way, we do not fear, because what we want to pull out of that blanket to clean up so much corruption. I still remember when here, a Maragall president withdrew what he had said from 3 percent at the request of Arthur Mas, right here. As I said, we need to reform the administration, but in the opposite direction to what they propose: to reduce the political cost and to be able to allocate more resources to the basic services and social benefits that our fellow citizens receive; to get aid to the unit, and to cover housing needs, and to allocate more resources to industrial policy or R & D, to create more jobs and more quality. And to public health, with which some have also wanted to do business..., once they were, of course, finished handing out public works. And finally – I could go on, because the list is very long – but also to allocate more resources to education, at all levels, from children to university, which with its rates is making there exclusion because of family income. Do you know what the preamble to a good law of territorial organization would say? It is born from a study aimed at improving the efficiency of the Administration. However, as I said, the preamble to the Vegarías Act appeals to historicist settlements, so I will say again: the territorial organization must meet efficiency criteria, it must meet criteria that have to do with the management of public resources and not with the management of feelings. Because what we should be concerned about is that our citizens enjoy better opportunities regardless of their place of origin, their socio-economic conditions or where they live. We should be concerned about equal opportunities. I know that some here are working to raise a border, that that, if anything, is precisely contrary to equality. But we are concerned about equality. You all also know what our territorial model is: a model in which we would have General State Administration, autonomous communities and municipalities; municipalities that, like now, would have the capacity to pool their services, but without doubling political structures that only serve for parties to hand over positions. We want to modernize the administration. The provinces respond to the needs of decentralization of the State in 19th century Spain, but it is that the veguerías respond to feudal criteria of the 12th century, prior to democratic institutions. The administration that citizens need today has to be defined under simplification, efficiency and flexibility parameters, and not under medieval parameters. And, as I explained a moment ago, our model is not to have more than nine hundred local governments and county councils and deputies and, now, veguerías. Rationalization and efficiency must be sought, that is, to be able to solve the needs of citizens by allocating the minimum..., with the lowest possible cost of resources. And in that regard we should look at what other countries have done in recent years. In Italy, for example, there were no 36 provincial entities; the United Kingdom went from having 1,500 local corporations to 400, while Germany went from 25,000 to 8,400 and Denmark from 278 to 98. Because where you have to cut, gentlemen, it's in non-dispensable expenses. We must cut into structures that serve only the parties and allocate more resources to meet social needs. But no, here what we do is create more municipalities and more regions. The European Union recommends that the municipalities have more than 15,000 inhabitants and here we create regions that, like that of Moianès, have 13,000. Why? For sentimental reasons? Or why do we have another regional council president? Do you know how we should feel about establishing our administrative map? The desperation of those without income who are not being cared for because of the inefficiencies of the Administration, or because of the lack of resources, or because the criteria for access to benefits are not well raised. But in the explanatory statement they talk about feelings of belonging. Feelings of belonging? Look, here the only belonging that's good for citizenship is not being on the side where social exclusion is suffered. All that is worth is not being on the side of people who see their opportunities in life truncated for socio-economic reasons. That's what really matters. And the only feeling of belonging that is worth in an open, tolerant and modern society and solidarity is knowing that one has a strong welfare state that is capable of meeting social needs. That's the only story that's worth giving a solution to the needs of the citizenry. It is a materialistic vision, yes, it is not sentimental; but it is here that we are to guarantee decent living conditions to people and not to feed feelings, myths or identities. A separate question is that there are groups here that like to call themselves progressive and, however, resort to discourses that appeal to feelings of relevance and to more proper accounts of conservative or traditionalist approaches than of people who are concerned about the progress of society. We will continue to appeal to rationality and the need to reform the Administration to make it cheaper and more efficient, to have more public resources for finalist policies that serve to combat poverty and social exclusion. In Ciutadans we opposed the Law of Vegarias, and also the creation of the region of Moianès, because they did not meet criteria of administrative efficiency, so the proposal of law presented to us and which proposes to amend a law that we would repeal in order to adapt to the existence of a region that we would not have created only creates a feeling: that of being reciprocating in error. Moreover, it reminds us that far from simplifying the administration, as other countries have done to modernize themselves, here some walk in the opposite direction and, instead of eliminating duplicities, propose to create more and more and more. Sometimes, the feeling here in Parliament is that there are Members who are very sensitive to the feeling of belonging to feudal structures, myths or perhaps to the positions that are distributed thanks to them, but not so much to the needs and feeling of the citizenry; needs that should lead us to update our institutions to adapt to the 21st century, better integrating different European countries in the federal sense, to achieve greater well-being for all and a condition of common citizenship, and to flee from that ensimism which takes as a reference pre-democratic institutions of the 12th century. But, if we have to build some myth in our time, that myth should not be inspired by feudalism. If we have to build some myth in our time, it must be a myth based on what the founding fathers of the European Union dreamed of; some founding fathers who are being betrayed when the traditionalist and nationalist stories are reappearing strongly today everywhere in Europe, including here. That is why we reiterate ourselves in our positions. Do not count on our support to feed myths, that basically what they do is create more administrative duplicities, more political positions and more positions of free designation that only respond to partisan interests. Don't count on us for that. For what they can count on us is to simplify the Administration under efficiency criteria, to slim down its political body and strengthen the staffing in health or education, because what the present demands and what the future will demand is to have good public services and an administration that offers services to citizens. So don't think so much about how this worked in the 12th century, and think more about what Schuman was proposing. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.49.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanz. As long as it doesn't come back, we'll go straight through... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? [[Neus Lloveras and Massana ask to speak.]] Mrs. Lloveras, yes. To the turn of the line, has the word "Mrs. Lloveras".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.50.0	Thank you, President. By way of contradiction, I would like to say, I would like to ask Mr. Sergio Sanz, of Ciutadans, to step out of the fold, because it is a disgrace to his ignorance of the facts and of the territory, and it is an insult to a million people who have been fighting for a better organization of the territory, more close and efficient. So, maybe listen to what we've said to the others and say things knowing what they're talking about. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.51.0	Mr. Garriga, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.52.0	Yes, thank you, President. Yes, by acclamation. [[Pause.]] Yes, just to clarify, how it is said that we are defending feudalist things... The concept of province, even though there are doubts about its meaning, sees the novels and means, many say and believe that it means "conquered land. What there is no doubt is that "province" is a concept linked to" empire; that's for sure. And to say two things: that at these times, so, you see..., what is in confrontation are schemes: one of domination and power, and one of liberation. And the references are not so long, no; I can't look for them either to 1300 or 1714: to 39. [[Greetings. Several Members ask for the word.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.53.0	Mr. Carrizosa, Mr. Sanz? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mrs Grau, who had asked you first – excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.54.0	Thank you, President. I, for allusions, answer to the company Santi Rodríguez that we..., I have been able to self-criticise what we did wrongly to the tripartite, but I also remember it... You say: "We were the ones who approved... You approved resolutions on the functional sphere in 2006 and 2007, but it was the tripartite government of the left that approved, precisely on July 14, 2015, the Law of the functional sphere. I-I-I-I-I-I-I... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, it was..., yes, yes, I have here the transcript, the session diary: July 14, 2010, approves the modification that allows the functional scope of the Penedès. And when I read the session diary, I found it very hard, Mr. Rodriguez, because what you were defending, and defending it very well, the need for this functional environment, which you have now made this speech. It must be the difference between one another: that some self-criticizing and some not. And, besides, you know that to do the old age it is necessary to belong to two provinces. So, if we're in the marque that I used to do before, we need to modify... if not, we're going to do the other side, the sovereign one, and then it does develop our territorial model. Thank you. [[Some applause. Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.55.0	Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.56.0	Yes, Madam President. For a point of order. I believe that, according to the Rules of Procedure, there are allusions and contradictions, but there are no margin notes, little page notes and comments and exegesis and insults, as we have heard here in this parliamentary group from some Members who have not been mentioned. Therefore, I would pray that the interventions will fade into the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.57.0	I understand he meant contradictions. The Lord... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He said "clarifications, but what he said was..., it meant contradictions, I understand. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.58.0	Contradictions with Mrs. Grau. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.59.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.60.0	Yeah? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Grau, the law of the functional sphere that you mentioned, from July 2010, is not a law of the Government, it is not a law of the Government. It's a law proposal that brought Convergence and Union and another law proposal that brought forward the People's Party, that they jointly processed and ended up on this 2010 law. It wasn't a tripartite government law. Yes, it was a law of the tripartite government the Law of Vegaries which was debated fifteen days later in this very Parliament. And that, of course, our parliamentary group did not only push forward the scope of Penedès' planning and voted in favour of our very proposal for the law, but fifteen days later we voted against the Law of Vegueries, precisely for the same reasons that we have presented today the threat to the totality. [[Sergio Sanz Jiménez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.61.0	Mr. Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.62.0	Yes; for allusions, President. Just tell Mrs. Lloveras that I'm sorry if, with my opinion, what I was looking for was to defend rationality in the model of administration reform, I hurt her feelings. And a little page note. Mr. Joan Garriga, when you talked about the veggies, that ended at 39. Miri, I will remind you of the figure of Lluís Creus, who was one of the people who wrote the project of vegeries in year 32, who, moreover, was after those who were added, to 32, to charge them. That's to say, it doesn't seem to me that the historicist argument, which also criticized my own intervention, is still very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.63.0	After the debate, we shall proceed to the joint vote of the two items in totality. The vote begins. Total votes were rejected by 34 votes to 98, with no abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Thank you. [[The applause continues.]] Please... As the papers to the full return of the bill's proposal have been rejected, this legislative initiative continues its processing. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the initiation of the 2016-2017 school year]] [[302-00064/11]] The fifteenth point of the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the initiation of the school year 2016-2017, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra. [[Pause. Widow's remorse.]] Please ask them, as always, to leave in a hurry and in silence, because we must continue the session. [[Pause.]] Congresswoman, when you want to start.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.64.0	Thank you, Madam President; and good morning to everyone. My nephew Jordi started ESO doing a couple of courses at an institute where they're still barracks. This institute conceived it, the tripartite, as a school, and the director gathered what she thought was the best professional team possible and with all the illusion they started a project. Years have passed, they continue with the same illusion and the institute, which is not school, also continues in barracks. My nephew Jordi, with his companions, has to go to the football camp, because the institute has no gymnasiums or any sports equipment. And it's not just the time it takes to go back and forth, it's that the football field won't let them serve the showers, so they can already imagine what it's like to get back to class all alone with the hormone festival that means adolescence. I don't want to go into details, but you know what I'm talking about. My nephew Jordi, like so many other children in Catalonia, studies in some precarious facilities, which sends a very negative message, because what is being said is that education is not very important and can be done in any way. And I already know that the lady will advise me that you make use of personal examples, but I, like many of my fellow Members and certainly some Members too, think that the personal is political. And my nephew Jordi is one of the thousands of children who study in barracks in Catalonia. And I explained a concrete case of the West Valley, but cases like this one we find close to, to all of Catalonia, and especially to the province of Girona, which is the most barracks concentrated from all over the territory. Last Tuesday, during Mrs. Ruiz's appearance, we learned to the Teaching Commission that this course will have 1,010 barracks; that is, fourteen more than this course, and much above the middle of the last 20 years, which is 828 barracks per year. Yes, they tried to sell this argument as good news. They told us that the centers that are all structured in barracks have been reduced. Okay. My nephew Jordi didn't get much luck, but I'm glad other kids did. Despite this, it turns out that of the five nine schools that opened this course, three are totally in barracks and, of the three institutes, one is also in barracks. The truth is, we don't see the good news for the place. The average of more than eight hundred barracks per year, the last twenty years, tells us that we are ahead of a structural problem and that they do not only depend on a situation of crisis or demographic growth, while these aspects may make the situation worse. Despite this, we can see that the number of barracks has remained stable even at times of low growth. This average of eight hundred barracks of the last two decades doesn't speak well of school planning in Catalonia. Since the beginning of this legislature, we have devoted much of the time of the Teaching Commission to proposals for the resolution of concrete requests from centres, many of them in barracks or in precarious conditions, and there is a recurring complaint from opposition parties about the lack of planning of the Teaching Department, and that I do not seem just to decide on a concrete case without knowing what the rest of the territory is like. It is for this reason that we have presented this young man, because we want to end a whole school in barracks, and we also want to guarantee the right times and the best in the teacher's award process. It is, in short, a matter of getting old so that both the student and the student enjoy the best conditions to develop their pocket, and to do everything possible to have a quality education system that makes us enjoy, now, yes – because until now we do not have it for much that repeats and repeats it – of a model of success in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.65.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. Next, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word María José García Cuevas, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.66.0	Thank you, President. Well, as we said in committee last week, listening to the counselor, it would seem that public education in Catalonia is at levels of quality that are incompatible with the dissatisfaction and demands that systematically from families, municipalities, centers, are brought to us. We must all be ungrateful that we do not know how to value the work of the Government, or that the Government does not want to recognize the reality, because in Catalonia more cuts have been made and for more time than anywhere else, and it is very easy to blame the Government of Spain. But it must be said that Decree 14/12 was inspired by the measures that the Government of the Generalitat was already implementing in Catalonia. Moreover, we have always said, these austerity measures were exceptional. I mean, if there's no other remedy, and in Catalonia we've also explained it, there's a lot to cut before you touch education. And they were also reversible, which is hard for this government to understand. The Government of the Generalitat is solely responsible for the loss in four years of 20 per cent of the education budget, for not yet recovered and for the consequent loss of educational quality. She explains to us that her plans for the next course are very positive, but we can't really trust us too much of promises that are then not fulfilled. And here's a sample. Look, the department pointed out, as objectives of the last course, literally: "The staff resources of the teaching centers are increased and there will be 1,180 more professionals, 360 more for the improvement of the inclusive school, disappears the reduction of 85_per cent of the day and salary of the substitutes, who will work and charge to 100_per_cent, and that the older ones of fifty_and five years recover an hourly discount in the field of education. The ratio shall not be extended to 20_per_cent. Last year there are fewer prefabricated modules, a total of 996. Well, we have already seen how inclusive school is still without resources; yes, it is now called ‘inclusive system, much more grandiose, but equally useless for families with children with disabilities. The numbers are still insufficient, they do not want to pay the July salary to the substitutes, the older than fifty and five years lose again the hourly discount that corresponds to them and we continue with high ratios. And, of course, 996 barracks are unacceptable – and it is not a fact that anyone can boast of. But even now we know that for the next course we will have 1,010 barracks, but that, the counselor tells us, is not so serious, because no..., there will be fewer schools entirely in barracks. We, excuse me, believe that this does not matter much to students who live their entire school life in barracks. In short, we believe that in Catalonia we suffer from a structural problem, which is poor educational planning and a misguided budgetary policy that does not prioritize public services that matter to people. And although not everything is solved with money, there are things – such as matching templates, facilities, supporting inclusion, strengthening learning, social cohesion, equal opportunities – that can only be achieved if the necessary economic resources are made available. We therefore urge the Councillor to defend and demand the budgetary envelope she needs, which is hers, where she touches, which is the bosom of the Government. We are already talking about education during the last plenary session and we are not going to repeat ourselves. You all know our favourable position, in favour of the points that Citizens include in your motion: teachers, equipment, ratios, necessary budget allocation for anything we approve. What surprises us is that it is not incorporated into a motion on the course 2016-17, which we propose as an amendment: that the school offer and the next pre-registration process, which are actions of the next course, be carried out in accordance with the law, asking families, either with the famous box or with any other procedure provided by the Generalitat, by the usual language of the child and thus be able to opt for a public educational centre where their children receive part of the teaching in this language. Firstly, because it is an expressly recognized right, first of all, in the Catalan laws of normalisation and linguistic policy that were adopted here. Secondly, because both the High Court of Justice and the Supreme Court have already clearly positioned themselves in this regard, forcing the Generalitat to amend its pre-registration forms. And here's the sample. [[the speaker shows a folder to the camera]] ... so quickly, yesterday I found four firm sentences and then I can read them if anyone has any doubts. Third, because it is the Generalitat's obligation to make compatible the will of some families to monolingual education in Catalan with the right of others to education in Catalan and Spanish. And, besides, it's very easy, it would be worth it in every municipality, at least, to be bi- or trilingual. We are always told that this is not a matter for the Government, which is a matter of centre autonomy, but let us set an example: if by centre autonomy all schools, for example, of Lleida, opt for a differentiated education, we are sure that the Generalitat would find a way for at least one public school to be mixed to ensure that those families who preferred it could choose it, don't they? Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.67.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The words of Ms. Anna Simó, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.68.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament today, Mrs Sierra has not started quoting Confuci, but Nebot Jordi, but the inquiry started her saying that "security engenders hope, quoting Confuci. And citizenship, of course, needs security in order to be able to expect definite results, not only if it is inspired or sent from this Parliament. This is why the government is required to measure the impact of the measures it wants to take. Also the presuppositional impact, obviously. The impact of resources and also measuring the presuppositional availabilities of these long-term measures. And that's what the counselor told him in the interrogation. And this is not only required, but it is a priority for the government. And to their departments they are required to be united among them in order to be able to offer this security that has to generate hope according to Confuci and Mrs. Sierra. But what I know is that it also generates security, or should it generate, in order to be clear about the presuppositional impact and the priorities in certain assumptions that, by force, are finite and limited, is the dialog between groups that present initiations and ideas in order to be able to lay down positions despite the disparity of priorities of expenditure, that there is only one need to hear every plenary of Parliament and, of course, the interventions that will be made today. The priorities of the later years, after you went back up the name of the modules; there was a screw-up in the 2002-2003 course, 2004-2005, but then again paid back. And now there's been a new descent from course 15-16, named "Modules". The priorities have been the educational attention to the student, which is not mentioned here. It's as if the schools were only carcasses, only buildings, only investments; the schools are students, they're teachers – you haven't talked about it and we'll talk about it – it's the educational community, it's the steering teams, it's the community that surrounds that school or that institute, it's together, it's the plans, it's so many things, it's the best there's been in the modules, etc. It has been, I mean, the student education and teacher endowments for the second and second demography increments, and also for the increment of years of schooling, that is, from three to six and seven divided, that there has been in the later decades, that this seems to be oblivious. Because you taught it, Mrs. Sierra, this graphic – which I also have –: the 97-98 course was already 726 modules! It's just that I don't want to talk about structural issues, but it's that we're talking like this was an increase four days ago. Do we like that there are modules? So many? No, no one – no one – but it is that course 97-98, when it had not yet reached 1 million people of cop in this country, of beautiful new, that it was necessary to build schools, ambulances, etcetera, and institutes, there were already more than seven hundred modules. Then, the investment effort was important despite the restrictions, 2,500 actions of RAM – reform, enlargement and improvement – from the year 2010 to the year 2016, with an import of almost 104_million euros, with a decrease in the total number of centers in modules, despite the increases in secondary need. Is that enough? Is it satisfactory? Of course not. We can speak of priorities, of the intention to strengthen the investment plan and of professional effects in the next course, as we have done with item 4, which we have been able to deal with. Willingness to reduce centers completely with molds? Of course; Emena 1, which was not accepted. Willingness to reduce ration? Obviously – obviously –; in the middle school band, who don't like them, the middle school kids, who will be around the twenty, there are twenty-one students. All right, course by course. All right, let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. That the institutes are at twenty-and-seven for what it does to ESO, means one hundred-forty modules, one hundred-forty groups more, with the respective modules, so that this contradicts the point that they say in four years barracks away. Willing? All of it. But, of course, for what he does to the ratites, there is a point that has not been accepted that it is related to the royal decree of 2010 and to which he says the LEC of increment or decrease of ratites according to criteria of schooling and need. Now, of course, all this resolves with point 6, open game at every assumption to do all this. Well, if they vote for the assumptions, they still do, but if they don't... The next course will begin with more students, and therefore with more teachers; with more support for inclusive education, despite the fact that Mrs. García Cuevas has made provision for inclusive school and disenfranchisement, because obviously there will be more resources for inclusive school and also for high-complexity centres. Prioritizing the presuppositional impact of what is approved? Security to generate hope? The security that generates hope is that of the dialogue between groups and with the Government to agree on better and more adventurous ways of voting for unanimity, which generate hope and also assurance of compliments; as we have known many times, as we have known many times in the field of education. We'll try harder than this group. He's seen it. But let's try hard, all of us. And let's go back to it, because the beginnings of the course and the educational needs deserve it. I, once said that, demand separate vote from points 3, 5, 6 and 7, president. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.69.0	Thank you, Mrs. Simó. Next is the words of Mrs Pilar Castilejo, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.70.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies and deputies who today are listening to this topic of course hints, which resisted the plenary after two days, we are now talking about the course hint with a young man who has three points, basically, three elements that are quite simple, quite elementary. We're talking about the staff, who hold the names closed in July; we're talking about eliminating..., a plan to eliminate precarious constructions, and we're talking about a plan not to have higher than established speeds. It's very basic, very elementary things, isn't it? We'd have to hear that today we're all saying we're going to throw this away. We're talking about planning and we're talking about the reversal needed to get this planning going. We also understand that to raise these so elementary questions..., I want to see why we present this type of thing, I understand that I want to analyze, too, the course we are coming from, and the so chaotic situation where we are at this time. We believe that there are many more things to plan for this beginning of the course, not just those that are so elementary, some that have already, at last, approved for this plenary and we are not sure that they can be put on the march during the next course. We believe that it is very important that the subject of the coverage of all the staff from the first of July and from the first day to all the public schools, is a subject that has been approved in this plenary and that we do not know whether it will be completed or not, but that it is essential for a good start to the course. We have also approved in this Ple the completed replacement driver plan, the system this PDI, we hope that if it has approved here, it will apply. We focus on this point of agreements approved in full because in which we carry the course is a recurring theme, those things that we approve, those agreements that we approve with Teaching, but then we don't just apply. This feeling that we have from the Parliament that deaf, governmental, deaf, deaf, so many things that are planted, both in the Committee on Education and in the House of Commons. And one of those points, I think it's a phone book, that's had a lot to see with this beginning of course that I've described as chaotic at first, isn't it? And we also believe that it is a subject that has brought much anxiety to families, that has led to cuts in educational models, displacements of children from one place to another, and we are talking, no more or less, about the closure of lines with which we have started this course; that it has been approved in different agreements, in different motions for resolutions or in opposition to line closures and we think that – well, we have already repeated it several times – it has been a waste of an opportunity to lower the results to the public school and, therefore, also to improve its quality. But we do have to talk about this class, don't we? , from the course we have to start and look back at where we're coming from. We believe that it is also a matter of substance – and I make a little bit of a mistake, but to go to the beginning of the course – to talk about the moment when in this House the ILP debate for teaching is denied, right? A parliamentary debate that ends with the debate on the totality that they presented, among others, Junts for the Yes, but that has not finished neither their social appeal nor their social debate. In this ILP there are many themes, there are many things, a very well-developed ILP, but we wanted to highlight a very important theme, for us, which is that of the double network. Not because we have an obsession with public defence from the CUP, but because we believe that this double network is an important element of discrimination and segregation for economic reasons, and if we want an equal society, and if we want a cohesive society, it is very important that the school follows it. When we talk about this subject, she will always advise us that she works for the public, and it is obvious, that she does work for the public, but we also think that certain agreements that are taken out of her advice favor the agreement for the public. And this..., from the time of pre-registration, this discrimination favors the concertee; these pre-emptive locks to the public, to the pre-registration, that have no place at the concertee, and that this pre-emptive lockdown that applies to the public, but not to the concertee, makes the lock more elevated in the public. Of the twelve-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-year-old students enrolled in the public sector and 1.7 in the private sector. Yesterday we were talking about the anti-discrimination agenda in the question we asked the president. We think there's got to be a lot on this agenda, but there's also got to be a double-track theme. Cal, also, to start this proper course, a plan to think about how we need to move from the concerted school to the public school. And that's why we lock him up at this point of course. We want to end with a quote from Rosa Sensat who tells us that: "Society is transformed, and as ideals of life arise, the school must modify its tendencies to adapt to the needs of the present and to those that are drawn in the horizons of the future. We are also now, changing our future with this path to the new republic, it is essential to rethink the teaching and for us it is essential to do so on the basis of what society sets up with its ILP for teaching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.71.0	Thank you, Mrs. Castilejo. The words of Ms.Alícia Romero of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.72.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. Well, then, from the PSC we've made a couple of items that ultimately, so they won't see the light in this young man, and it's not that we're dissatisfied, is it? , because in the end – and also the deputy Simó gave it a little – we have to finish negotiating and trying to look for the possibilities so that the more things get better. But I should like to remind you that we approved a motion for a resolution, just one_me, a little promoted for the MUCE, in which we already approved a few things about the course principle. Why, in fact, if we just read this young man, we'd say, "Man, there's a lot missing because a course start works, right?" And I wouldn't talk about a lot of issues: the stability of professionals, the replacement from the first day of teaching, the resources for inclusive school, the appeal for high-complexity centers... That's to say, things are missing in this young man, isn't it? We believe that they are not lacking, therefore, in view of the fact that they complement that proposal which has been approved. Some of the items we did were in this line. They have not been accepted, because it is understood that they have already been approved and, therefore, they do not need to be approved again, and I continue here always having those predictions to say: well, let us hope that the government will complete, complete what it has approved, because, if not, we will not go wrong, right? That is to say, I already accept that we will not incorporate these elements again, but I hope that the Government, therefore, will do what it has to do, that it is to fulfil the mandates of Parliament. One of the items that we did was that they were assigned to the seats on the 15th of July. It seemed that in this way we had more time to plan the course properly, and above all life, to say the least, of these dozen interim students. It was not accepted, and in this sense we are flexible, because it seems to us that it is better that it is July 31 than not to have date. And, therefore, we accept that this is not accepted, but we believe that we have won, in the sense that it is much better on July 31 than on September 10 or October 20 or 1st, right? Therefore, in this sense we will collect most of this motion from Ciutadans, taking into account, therefore, that the papers have not been accepted, I understand, to seek the maximum possible consensus – and this is also always the will of the Socialist Group – but warning the Government that there are at these times in Parliament motions for resolutions and approved motions in which some commitments are already made that we hope are complete, because they are really important for the course. And the councilwoman knows about the envelopes, doesn't she? In fact, this young man who asks above all is a lot of information: detailed reports on the situation of the barracks, on the routes... And it seems to us that it's important, but in the end, what you can't forget is that you can put resources in the public school, so you can regain the dignity that we believe you are losing in the last few years with the details. And just say one thing – because also the Members who support the Government always repeat it from this Faristol –: there is no presumption because the Government has brought a presupposition proposal without having the necessary support, and this is not the fault of the opposition, it is the fault of the Government, which presents presuppositions without having that support. And that's to say... because, if not, when it's repeated it seems that at the end of the day it's the others' fault. No, look, it's the fault of whom the door doesn't have the necessary supports. And if that's why we can't put more resources, than we have doubts, because we believe that the law allows, for the sake of assumptions, to deal with such basic and priority needs as education, then in this sense it's worth clarifying some concepts. We would therefore vote in favour of this motion, except at a point which, as always, the People's Party takes advantage of to include it, which is the subject, therefore, of language. We believe that the system, the Catalan model of linguistic immersion, is in place, we need to keep it, in any case, to strengthen it, and, as always, we will not accept it or we will not vote for it – because I understand that Ciutadans accepts this – only at this point; in the rest, therefore, we will support it. And let's hope that beyond this young man we complete what is approved in this Parliament and can start the 2016-2017 course in better conditions than we started the previous course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.73.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Then there's the word "Jessica Albiach", from the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it's Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.74.0	Good morning, everybody. I have to admit that we see this young man very willing but little realism; little realism, mainly, for the "times, for the calendars he proposes, and that they contrast absolutely with the reality with what we find every fifteen days in the Committee on Education. It looks like I can end up feeling one of those motions that we approve of, but they don't end in term. Obviously, we agree with a good part of the content: that which refers to labor rights, to the elimination of barracks and to the reduction of rates; but, obviously, and like the Romero company, we do not want or want in painting the theme presented by the People's Party, because we consider that the model of linguistic immersion is a model of success and, moreover, we defend it. Now, Mrs. Sierra, I think the People's Party has made you a good play by including this theme in your text. I could have put it in their text fifteen days ago in this very House, and in this way what he did is that this young man, that we could make him ours absolutely, cannot be so and we cannot vote, let us say, the block opposition in favour of this young man. But we're on our way. The first point, on the assignment of seats to dozen interns before July 30th, therefore, according to the course will not be able to apply, because, the years that there are public contests, before they have to..., well, to close the seats for the functionaries and, after, for the interns, and, moreover, we will always have to reserve places for the inside of those places that are created fruit of the registration of September. So, of course, we have to close the number of places for interns to the maximum, but they will not be able to close all on July 30, according to the reality of each course. So we share the hope, but it has to be done much more. Points 2 and 3, on the elimination of barracks, we share them, but again we see them a little feasible if we have now seen that there are a thousand barracks in Catalonia and, moreover, that of the eight educational centers that we are carrying four have already taken place in prefabricated modules, concretely three schools and an institute. It was certainly hard for you to explain it to us the other day at the hearing of the Committee on Education; after asking me three times we got it. We think that reversing this measure or this situation in four years is a little naïve. Points 4 and 5, on the ratios, are the ones that we see most viable, mainly because what is asked again is an annual report detailed to alert those educational units that are about the stability, and the part referring to establishing the ratios between twenty-two and thirty students, according to the cycle, is supposed to be already being done; what happens is that not always what is approved and collected ends up being completed. What about the Junts for the Yes? So, as always, good words, but few concretions presuppositions. We will not even talk about the people's party. Give your thanks for this motion and announce that we will ask for a separate vote from points 1 and 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.75.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the lady Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.76.0	Thank you, Madam President. In the first place I want to thank the different parties for the presentations and the facility to negotiate it, because it has been very easy to reach agreement with other parties' holding companies. We wanted to accept the message from the PSC... in fact, we would have liked to accept them both. One thing I've already explained is that it was already approved and it seemed counterproductive to add a point that was already approved approved itself passed with one of the CUP's items, and the proposers heard it perfectly. And the other point was that in principle we had accepted it, from the 15th of July, for a question of parliamentary arithmetic we finally had to say that we did not accept it. In the case of the CUP, we accepted one question, and the other I have already explained why it is not accepted, and Mrs Castilejo, therefore, also heard it perfectly. And the thing we've accepted is to age for people to be as good as they can be to have a quality education system. We did not accept three of the four papers presented by Juntes for the Yes, because we understood that they were lowering our proposals for the better. I think, like Mrs Castilejo, that this is a small-scale movement in reality, with which we can no longer lower expectations. And we have not accepted a compromise that talks about strengthening investment plans over the next few years. Well, as Mrs. Albiach used to say, good intentions. And yes, Mrs. Simo, the school is much more than carcasses. I'm telling you, I've been working in the classroom for 20 years; I don't know, I've been there for 20 years and I know how cold it is at the public institutes in Catalonia. And I also know that the educational community is much more than the carcasses and that the educational community is against the LEC, and so it has manifested itself repeatedly in the streets. And it is also an educational community that we presented an ILP that you have refused to debate in this Parliament. Finally, we accepted a statement from the PP that in principle does not relate to the themes of the motion that we presented, but, as we are advocates of multilingualism, we finally accepted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.77.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. We're calling it a vote. [[María José García Cuevas asks to speak.]] Mrs. García Cuevas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.78.0	President, I would like to ask you to speak on a number of points on two different issues.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.79.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.80.0	Thank you. First of all, tell the PSC that we do not take the subject out of the language, but rather the guarantee of the individual rights of the students. And Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, which in our motion was not because our motion was guaranteeing teachers' rights; they are different areas. Finally, I already know that Mrs Simó loves getting involved with me; but, look, on the subject of inclusion I do not admit it, and I do not admit it because if there has been a parliamentary group – and, modestly, this Member – who has been concerned about the issue, who has raised the debate in this Parliament in a constructive, positive way, worked with the sector, it has been the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, and you know it – do not say that not with your head, that you know it. Therefore, of course I am ironically referring to the change in the name of his Government: the same irony that many families with children with disabilities are still waiting to see if his Government puts the resources they need to have the support and to be able to school their children in ordinary school. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.81.0	A separate vote has been requested on points 1, 3, 5, 6 and 7. Points 3, 5 and 6 can be voted together? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] So, if it seems to them, we'll start by voting point 1; then we'll vote 3, 5 and 6 together; then 7, and then the rest of the vote. [[Long break.]] Come on, let's start the vote. We're voting, we're going to vote on the number one point of the motion. Point 1_has been approved by 120 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 3, 5 and 6 together. The vote begins. Points 3, 5 and 6 were approved by 71 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 7. The vote begins. Point 7_has been rejected by 34 votes in favour, 98 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Moció on the beginning of the school year 2016-2017_has been approved by 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into energy policy]] [[302-00065/11]] The 16th item on the agenda is the following question to the Government on energy policy presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Lord Jordi Terrades. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] I'm in a hurry, please. [[Pause.]] I'm in a hurry, please, and in silence. Congressman, when you want to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.82.0	Thank you, Madam President. MPs, MPs, the Paris summit on climate change, and above all the targets he set, must be the initiator of a real change. Today, this Parliament, in a majority, will manifest itself in favour... – then we will obviously have to concretely – it will manifest itself in favour of the year 2050, the energy mix in Catalonia being 100_per_cent renewable. We think this is important. I said in the question that I asked the Councillor, which today is not, that in the time of 2050, the prosperity of our country will have to be based on a different economic model; therefore, we are not convinced, and we are also convinced that the transformation of the energy system will be key to ensuring a very low carbon economy. Reptiles are very important. The challenges are to have an efficient economy, a net energy system, a prosperity that benefits everyone and everyone in an untapped way. I am referring, too, to the problems of the energy poverty that have arisen in recent times. We have to act now, huh? We have to act with the view in place at the mid and long end, we don't have to take the switch. We know that there will be resistance, that there are companies that have their own agenda, that do not see with good eyes the need to change or it will do at the pace of transformation. But above it is time to demand the governments and energy corporations not to delay the changes. Serving fossil energies exclusively has obvious ecological risks. Catalonia, in coordination with Spain and the European Union, has to face an energetic transition. We're wearing a lost legislature, no consensus was sought in energy matters, and there was no consistency in decisions. We will not complete the first targets set for the European Union for the year 2020. Again, energy and, above all, electricity can become the engine of change. The system will each time be more decentralized, with more generation of small scale, on a distributed scale, and in its major part will be renewable; also, development of energy service enterprises geared to managing consumption more effectively. Today, technological innovation, the maturation and reduction of renewable energies, especially wind and photovoltaics, the same telecommunications, the automation of buildings and industries, help in this direction. We believe that we can set ambitious targets for the year 2030, as the rest of the countries around us are doing. We believe that you can set targets so that the year 2030 is able to achieve 70_percent participation of renewable energies in the electricity generation mix, also significantly reduce energy intensity in a progressive way. We are on condition of setting realistic and ambitious targets in electric mobility. We have proposed that the year 2030 the cent_per_cent of the fleet of the Generalitat de Catalunya makes use of this modus, we think that the Administration has to set an example. We are in the final analysis of the need to provide Parliament with a first basic document of the National Pact for Energy Transition, with the intention of seeking a cross-cutting and majority agreement that will lead us to use this path to a new energy model. A pact which, from our point of view, must focus on a few objectives: to be more efficient, from the point of view of energy – therefore, to deploy programmes of efficiency and efficiency at the residential, industrial and mobility levels; to ensure, in this way, energy sub-administration based on quality and reliability; to reduce the dependence of fossil fuels; to address the debate on nuclear energy; to reduce, as in the past, the energy precariousness that affects a part of citizenship; to make the citizens have more information and are responsible for this change and for this transformation, and to tell the Government that, we agree, they must have more skills, but those that they have, that they exercise. And, therefore, we believe that we should start, as soon as possible, this path of change towards a new energy model in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.83.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Next, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word María José García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.84.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Councillor..., said the Councillor the other day that the energy debate must be made with data and with realism, and we cannot agree more. The problem is that if something has been missing in the energy debate in Catalonia, at least since I am a Member, it is precisely data and realism. The Generalitat's energy policy has failed for two reasons: firstly, because it is debated and decided from the back to the reality, and secondly, because the Catalan institutions have proved incapable of properly and effectively developing their own or shared competences. Catalonia is not an energy island, nor is it a state. Therefore, all that is talking about energy sovereignty, energy transition without anyone, or managing and deciding on things that are not our responsibility, such as energy mix or nuclear energy, is a bluff, it is useless, it is a fraud to the citizens, a waste of time and a collective frustration. And this has been the constant in Catalan energy policy. And it seems that the new government is still on the same path. The first thing is to recognize what things are like from a legal, competitive, technological, economic point of view, and to act accordingly. It is the least we can demand from a government and a sensible parliament committed to the citizens and to the general interest. From the People's Party of Catalonia we have held hands with the Government of the Generalitat several times, to draw up realistic plans, coordinated with the State, to lead a sufficient, safe, reliable, sustainable energy model, throughout Spain; to lead from Catalonia the energy efficiency, the development of renewable efficient, responsible, also manageable, overcoming the raging administrative procedures that have made the projects impossible. In return, the Catalan Government, together with its partners, has chosen to remain ensimulated, planning what it would be like to have a state of its own that would enable them to shut down nuclear power and ensure, in their ideal world, a 100-per-cent renewable supply, without networks or equivalent manageable power – a plan that is not technically and economically feasible – setting out unrealistic, unsustainable objectives and which, moreover, are not the competence of an autonomous community. Plans, debates and objectives that, as we say, lead only to collective frustration and not to concern ourselves with what is in our hands to manage. The Government has continued to sympathize, with the complicity of the parliamentary groups that continue to speak of the Catalan model, of unilateral national plans, of Catalan nuclears, as if they were ours, or of energy transition, as I told them, without counting on anyone, nor of the technological reality of the generation, transport and distribution of energy. And the consequence is that the debate becomes a big lie that serves no purpose at all. And to the tests I refer: the absolute and flagrant failure of the renewable deployment in Catalonia in relation to other autonomous communities. The failure of successive Pecac, as well as the government's lukewarm commitment to energy efficiency plans that we applaud, but which are always insufficient for lack of economic support. From the People's Party we urge everyone to work for the general interest, with data and with realism, in collaboration with the Government of Spain and not against it; not to intoxicate people with information, data, objectives that we know and know are neither realistic nor real. In this respect, we have tabled amendments, with the will to support the SGP motion calling for: the guarantee of budgetary allocations for those efficiency plans that are then failing due to a lack of economic resources; recognizing that the energy policy in Catalonia must be coordinated with the state; introducing the requirement that energy supply, in addition to reliable, safe and cheap, must be sustainable in environmental terms – an unforgivable forgetfulness of Mr Terrades – ; demanding that the Government not only talk about energy poverty, but also comply with the powers and budget that it has available; demonstrating the need for sufficient and adequate networks for renewables, because if we do not introduce realism and common sense into the debate, we will not serve the general interest of Catalans. The PSC, in payment at our good disposal, has not only not accepted one of our amendments, but has negotiated with all the other groups without us, without even giving us the opportunity to participate in the transaction. And now we are presented with a transaction, basically with the government, and we are asked to support it. So look, Mr Terrades, we are sorry, because we are not going to endorse the sectarianism of your political action, ignoring a parliamentary group as legitimate as yours, because your attitude has been exclusive and contrary, we believe, to the minimum spirit of consensus that must guide our parliamentary action. And because your transaction has very good intentions but no credibility: it is not realistic in the objectives, no budgetary allocation is requested and you come to decide on issues that do not fall within the competence of this Parliament or this government. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.85.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group, goes on to say "Pot".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.86.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, before I began the intervention I had prepared, only a little bag to Mrs García Cuevas, who seems to me to live in reality and in mons différents. Because you speak of the Catalan unrealisticity, of demagogicity, when your government, the government with the absolute majority of the PP, passed the rodeo, has made the deregulation in energy and electrical themes more good, that more Europe will end them falling and the common sense; it has no strength in the Congress that gives it support, and, moreover, you are the cause – the cause – in the matter of its regulation, of the disaster that we have experienced with the renewables. So, I don't know: either we live in parallel realities or I don't know what the problem is. Well, I do know. And now I'm starting, but I had to tell him. Look, the subject of energy is a subject that, as I said in the question from the past... to the question I asked the counselor, I think there was a lot missing in this hemisphere, right? , and too absent in the government, both in this exercise, that we have dyed, as in the previous governments, right? It is true that the Councillor was compromised, which, in the end, in September or late, we would have the announcement of the National Pact for Energy Transition, of which, after the announcement of the past estuary, we did not know anything about it. We, in this sense, have submitted a few papers, because so the Member Terrades asked us, who told us that he did not want a line and therefore we prioritized. It's hard for us to know that we haven't accepted Emena 1. Why? Because we think that, precisely the 216/X motion, which we approved here at the end of last parliamentary term, the June of 2015, had very powerful points, and that, moreover, is asking both the network for energy sovereignty, the collection for a new energy model; and, above all, some of the points, and, concretely, that of making an audit of the State of distribution or the famous..., asking the State for the famous audit of the electrical system... – which I believe will ultimately fall, because, as it will not have an absolute majority of the PP and is a will of all groups in Congress – the famous audit of the electrical system, in which, by the way, we can compute all the costs of the system, including the benefits of the fallout of the cell and of all the resources that we provide, to the extent that the costs of the other are, to the whole. Here too, we refer to the application of the European Energy Efficiency Directive. I have seen that, in the end, in the transaction that they have made with Juntes for the Yes, this point remains, somehow, collected, all that we have set time, we put down 2018, and with the transaction there is no..., no, there is no term. Also regret that our theme 3, of the creation of an energy operator, was not accepted – this I spoke to Mr Terrades –, which is Catalan, of civic public participation, also in order to deal with these oligopolises. And, besides, because we think... we already know that we need to change the whole regulatory framework and that we need to intervene in the issue of price, mix, price pool and how the prices are decided, but we think we need to change... we need to change the regulatory framework. And this will be a compromise that our group in Congress, United We Can - In Comú Podemos, we will work. We need to change to make possible a distribution model that promotes environmental and social justice, and above all because we want the public ownership of the distribution network. We also have a difference in what it does to the issue of nuclear power plants. So, I'm pleased that we've taken one more step, that we're moving one more step, on the subject of the lockdown. Because you say Mrs. Caves that we have nothing to say here. Pardon me, Mrs Cuevas: here, Camp Tarragona - Lands of the Ebre we are the most nuclearized place of the State. And of course we have to say, because we're the ones who beat him. And it's not what we have to say, it's what we say. And nuclear power, you like it or you don't like it, we'll shut it down, because it'll be the same business sector that won't make it profitable and shut it down. And we'll see it, and you'll see it, too, like tanks, nuclear. Therefore, we disagreed with the point that you say this forty years ago... for us, and what we have agreed with the entire Iberic Antinuclear Movement is not to renew the current claims. Why? Because right now it's an opportunity to do an illegal shutdown, and if we don't renew the current lawsuits, we can't talk about increasing time stores, increasing pools, on the issue of waste. And lastly, I also... first I told him what I'm not saying now because I can include him in the deal we made with Juntes for Yes our theme 4, in which we commit ourselves to working to make self-consumption possible, as other communities have done, I told the counselor, as did Múrcia. Because..., mig..., we think it's simple..., that by means of a mechanism that leaves photovoltaic installations as winged and that does not allow that of the antivert, at the moment, until we change the legislation, so we can favor the self-consumption and remove the fame imposed on the sole that the government of the PP, with its absolute majority on the roll, reduced our last legislature. So thank you very much, and we hope that we can all see it on the plate that they present us and that we can move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.87.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. The words of Mr Ferran Civit, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.88.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, first of all to thank the proposal presented for the Terrades company; also to thank its generosity at the time of making the transactions; also to give thanks to the Grau company, also with the presentations and the transaction that we have been able to share. Because, in the end and in the end, what we're doing here right now is something that an evil scientist, which is said by Nikola Tesla, who is now recovering his memory, already sensed more than a hundred years ago. Let's go to a process that is called energy transition, in which the energy model changes. So far we have an energetic model, as you well know, that it's like a circus tent, and never more so in the case of the Spanish electric system; it's a circus. From now on, power stations distribute all the energy to the territory. But, besides, what's going on? That it's a very centralized model, with a model too... energy model that's based on nuclear and fossil fuels, and that's why, besides, the citizenry, which is down the line, has a crappy role. And that's what we do to change it. Let's move from a circus model to an envelope model, in which the model will be horizontal. The advisor, in the previous plenary, has already presented to us the master lines of which all this model will be in the National Pact for Energy Transition, which we will now later begin to debate and in which all folds we can finish defining this model. But let's look at the model as if it were an enveloping, horizontal, with intelligent networks, with batteries, with self-consumption models. And this is the model in which we don't..., all of us can define and decide what this model will look like, and all of our folds can follow models that are starting to roll out from Europe. In some places with networks, in some places with fears of mobility. For example, it should be remembered that in Norway, the past year, 25_percent of the vehicles that came were electric; in the Netherlands, from 2025 onwards, no more vehicles of internal combustion will come. And everything we do goes that way. We have, logically, a very difficult panorama, because neither Catalonia nor the Spanish State have done their dues. Now we have three nuclear power plants that produce about a thousand megawatts each, we have a couple of central deets of combined cycle, that produce about four thousand, and, of course, we have to go tending, as the Grau company said, to a model of decarbonization and denuclearization swept with a much more democratic system. And that's all we can do. Because now what we have is a model that is slashed, a model that stops the change, which is based on two behaviors: one behavior is the mentality, that we hope that with the National Pact for Energy Transition we can change it, and the other is Spanish legislation, which is the most charged that is currently in the European Union. That's why it's all about all these models that we start designing from here on in the Parliament, from Catalonia, all of which we change. Because if we open these you carry the water of the change will arrive and the transformation will arrive. And the theme of the calendars we have marked – 2050, 100_percent of renewable energies..., with the change of mindset and the change of legislation I have no doubt that here in Catalonia we will get this change to be real much sooner. That's why we make this energy transition. And that is why we also have another very great opportunity with this model that we are now working on with the National Energy Transition Pact: we have the opportunity to create a new product sector. Because now, as you know, no solar plates, no drums, no vehicles; practically we don't make anything, here in Catalonia. We make an energy transition, but we also make an industrial transition, we change from one model to another. We have to change it. And that's why we need in this country that everyone is a producer and distributor of energy, but that everyone can work and generate wealth in this sector that we still have starting here in Catalonia. With this motion, we have joined the proposal presented by the Terrades company. We have made this deal, and I am sure that the proposal we are debating today, which we are voting on today, will be the best front door of the agreements we will reach later with the Energy Transition Law. Because we have a golden opportunity to do it, a golden opportunity because all folds we design a better model, a more democratic model, a more sustainable model and, at the end and end, a model in which we all feel comfortable and have the least possible impact on the country and its surroundings. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.89.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Civit. Then, to fix his position, has the words of Mr Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.90.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Counsellor, Mr. and Mr. Members of Parliament..., from Citizens we will support the final motion, because it shares 99_per_cent of the priorities and axes of Citizens' energy policy, a policy that starts from considering energy as a strategic priority. There are many reasons to consider this, but let me point out four: firstly, because of its importance in economic development, being indispensable for economic growth, competitiveness and, consequently, for employment; secondly, because of its impact on households, families and people's transport; thirdly, because of its impact on the fight against climate change, and, fourthly, because of its influence on other sectoral policies, such as agriculture, land management or housing. It is therefore clear that it is a priority for Citizens to establish a new energy model, to achieve a low-carbon economy and to establish an energy policy that, on the one hand, reduces our dependence on the outside, on the other hand, to contribute to the change of a productive model and, finally, also to bet on the maximum use of own natural resources through renewable energies. In Citizens we are committed to a gradual transition to a new energy model based on renewable energy, self-supply, savings and efficiency, as well as a decentralized production model. In Citizens we want a sustainable and balanced energy mix that guarantees energy supply and saves costs for businesses and consumers. Above all, we want to guarantee and shield..., ensuring a supply especially for families with economic difficulties and at risk of social exclusion. We want to reduce the high electricity costs for peppers and families, and to do so we need to introduce more competition and prevent generation, distribution and marketing companies coming from the former monopolies from continuing – continue – to form part of the same business group. Only if we introduce more competition will we be able to generate an increase in efficiency, a reduction in prices and an improvement in the quality of service. We want, as it could not be otherwise, to reduce our dependence on the import of petroleum products, and this, logically, through a policy that makes the most of the natural resources we have at our disposal. We have an advantage that we cannot miss to make renewable energy the fundamental pillar of our energy model. But, ladies and gentlemen, it will be of no use to set very ambitious objectives, as the motion says, if we do not invest in sustainable energy technologies. The investments that the economy of Catalonia and the rest of Spain will have to make between 2016 and 2050 to achieve the desired decarbonisation are calculated between 330,000_million_euro and 385,000_million_euro. Let's get to it, huh? I would like to conclude by pointing out that we share the objectives of the motion to deploy the electric car and expand the loading points. We also share the need to promote the rehabilitation of buildings with energy and environmental efficiency criteria. The only doubt we have about this motion is the rigidity that is established in the deadlines and the associated percentages. Look, we share that it improves in efficiency, but, frankly, we find it quite unreal to think that by 2050 we're going to lower consumption by 50_per_cent. It seems frankly unreal to us. Moreover, studies indicate that we are going another way, that we are going to increase demand. And that's not bad, because that will allow us to lower the price and make the investments I said before that we needed. Another example of the rigidity of the motion is the goal of achieving 100_per_cent of the generation of renewable origin in 2050. Look, we want you to go in that direction, but, honestly, we think it would be more reasonable to set a criterion between 90 and 100_per_cent. Why? Because it is very likely that even on those dates we still need energies that guarantee back-up energies, precisely that they guarantee that supply, huh? because it is very likely that even with that enormous will to move towards that transition from decarbonisation we will not be able to achieve total decarbonisation by 2050. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us be ambitious, but let us be realistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.91.0	Thank you, Mr. Spiny. The words "Mr Sergi Saladié", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed, are followed by the words "Mr Sergi Saladié".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.92.0	All right. Thank you, President. From the start, I'm warning you that we're going to abstain at all points, so we're going to be cool, and I'm going to try to get rid of why. I mean, we can't vote against a few small people who seem reasonable and well-intentioned, but sometimes we consider them insufficient and not ambitious, and so we can't endorse them either, can we? In any case, we're going down each of these points, or some of these points, from this place to see what way we think it would be better to go there, right? So, I'm saying we're going to do this generalised abstention. In the band, it also focuses very much on everything that would be the National Pact for Energy Transition, which we believe does not complicate the minimums of citizen participation. We understand, for what we have been told, that only two meetings were held until the month of December with the table of entities, and that there were not all that were to be, or that we felt that they were to be. We consider energy to be one of the structures of the state that we will have to address, effectively, in the framework of this National Pact for Energy Transition and that, in any case, we would also like to link, or that was participated, with the framework of the process constitute, to which we all just yesterday gave the way out. And let's just say that we seem to be basically insufficient because it looks like you're a young man with little gain in addressing the real problem, right? , which is the energetic decrease in which we are immersed, and which, inevitably, whether we like it or not, we like it more or not, and goes beyond the ideas or ideologies that each of us has, entails an economic and social transformation. A few dice. In the sixties the energy availability of oil barrels the year per capita was 2.85. In the '60s. The splendid years of development and "developmentism at world level" were the years 75, 80, with 6 barrels per capita per year. Now we're in decline. We're... last decade, with levels of 4.6, and we're transitioning to levels of 2.35 a year 30. So, it's a reality that already exists and, let's just say, as soon as we approach it, and with greater depth we approach it, better for everyone. And all this, in addition, in a context in which, say, the model is sheltered by a few companies, these of the famous revolving doors. It is a profoundly unfair model; it is a model that is based on contaminant and dangerous fonts at a time; based on large central producers, a very centralized model, large centres, few units, with the need to build high voltage lines or well, large pipelines, in the case of other energy resources. And it's more inefficient. For example, nuclear power plants or thermal power plants, on which a good part of the country's electrical sub-administration is based and beyond, only turn 35 per cent of the scalph into electricity, the rest of it into electricity, so they are heat machines more than no electricity, and that, I say, is an absolutely irrational question that we need to change. The solutions, or some of the solutions that you are planting here in this young man, therefore, speak of "efficiency, right? Say, a mike like the panacea that we have to lead to the estalvi. Well, if we're just basing it on efficiency, we can find the paradox of Jevons. The paradox of Jevons tells us that in a capitalist context an increase in efficiency entails a final increase in consumption, because all the energy that we cease to consume is seized by another, and efficient already more than two hundred years ago than we are, technologically, and most efficiency has not proved to be that we have decreased our levels of consumption. Therefore, the key to all this is in the estalvi and the energetic decrease that we have to do yes or yes, but not because we say it like CUP, but because it is already the data, we say, that at world level..., as I said, of availability of oil barrels per capita are the ones that are, and there is no more, in this sense. They are also talking about ensuring energy sub-administration, especially for poor people, and we say, "Yes, of course, we can't oppose this. But somehow we can't endorse that if it's not guaranteed with what kind of energy... or if that, that money that we derive from the public will go to private, right? , or to these usual enterprises, the five large electrical enterprises, for example, in the case of electricity, boiled down to the Unesa employer, so we will not do anything either. Are they talking about developing renewable energies? So much. I mean, today's a question that's no longer opinionable, that's to say, we're all on this line. But let's go back to the same thing, is that, like we do, this renewable energy model? Do we do as we did with the wind power stations? These high-voltage wind power stations, which are high, which are high, which are high, which have required new high voltage lines, which have a low economic impact on the municipalities where they are installed and which have been and are still being controlled by large companies? 65_percent of the wind energy at the level of the Spanish State is in the hands of six companies. So, of course, if we have to transition to a model of renewables, but we still feel the same model, except that in nuclear or fossil accounts what we do is renewable; as the model, we say, general, we already seem fine, but we have to go to the concrete. And concrete things happen to take over, say, and take over more citizenry through the same electricity users – that we don't like to say consumers, do we? , but users of a service, the energy must be a service– therefore, that follow the same ones that generate these energies. Germany's case is a paradoxical case, isn't it? Well... paradigmatic, in this sense. A country that has decided to shut down nuclear power and that all the deployment of renewables is based on taking over the citizenry. A 50_per_cent of the conjunct of renewable energies in Alemanya is developed into community formulas. And only one point. In the case of nuclear power, forty years better than sixty, obviously, but we are for the shutdown when the current period of operation ends. In the case of Vandellòs II it is year 2020, and Asco is year 2021. Basically for one thing, too, we say, objective, that is that the set of reactors that have already locked themselves in the world, worldwide, have done so with twenty-and-four years of life. Therefore, if you want to play the 40-year lottery, play it, but we will continue to fight to close them as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.93.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. To pronounce on the papers, has the word Lord Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.94.0	Thank you, President. The purpose of this motion was not to overconcrete, it was to test the Government's will with respect to the ability or willingness to negotiate and broad consensus the day the National Energy Transition Pact was approached. Listen, you're very pleased that the government has agreed that at the end of three months, at a later date, huh? We can open this debate. And we have set some objectives: reduction of fossil fuels, we agree with the Government and the majority group that supports it – with other parliamentary groups, too –; increase of renewable energies; concrete efficiency and energy saving plans – the fact of making certain points here indicates the Government's willingness to deal with it with economic resources; a concrete plan in favour of the electric vehicle – it is the same – to open the nuclear debate and seek agreement as widely as possible. Albert Einstein said that the most powerful motor force is not steam, electricity, or atomic energy, it's the will, huh? And, therefore, we will now have an opportunity to implement these intentions in the debate of the National Energy Transition Pact. And we've found another thing, that we're a lot of positions in energy with the People's Party, in other things as well, but in energy issues they're obvious. I believe that they must renew their data on renewables, for example, and set themselves at the height of our times, as did the Nordic countries; as did David Cameron, when he was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom; as did Germany; as is France; as are the United States, Canada and Mexico. It's the sign of time and, therefore, we need to address this debate without prejudice, in which I believe you also have many things to say, but you need to change many of its sites that are anchored in the past and not in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.95.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. We're calling it a vote. [[María José García Cuevas asks to speak.]] Mrs. García Cuevas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.96.0	[[The speaker began to speak without using the microphone, a word for which the first words had not been recorded.]] He said it seemed to me that the lady of Catalonia was first. Yes, she's Pot...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.97.0	Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.98.0	For allusions and contradictions; three points, essentially. [[Pause.]] Thank you, President. First, tell the deputy of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot that the sun tax does not exist, it is one more intoxication, there is payment, toll, payment of the net if you want to connect to the net. If you don't connect to the network and mount a photovoltaic plate, you don't pay this toll. There is no sun tax, there is toll on the net. Secondly, everyone has the right to say what they want, to lack more, and to express their opinion. Unlike others, we don't mind at all. What we cannot do is decide what is not our responsibility. And, finally, I confirm that we live in parallel realities: you are in one parliamentary group and I am in another. And, legitimately, we are defending different solutions and different models. It is not scandalized by plurality because I do not scandalize myself of his interventions, it is not scandalized that I exercise my right to think differently and to express it, to see if what we are missing is a little bit of tolerance. Finally, Madam President, I would like to ask you to vote separately on point 1 (c) and point 4 of the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.99.0	I'm sorry, did you say 1.c and what else? Mrs García Cuevas, did you ask me to vote separately from point 1.c and from which others?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.100.0	The four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.101.0	The four. Thank you. [[Hortênsia Grau Juan asks to speak.]] Mrs. Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.102.0	It is for asking for a separate vote from the last point, point 6, nuclear, and also because I would like to read point 3.e. Point 3.e of the transaction. Thank you. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.103.0	Secretary Simó will give reading to paragraph 3.c, which Mrs.Grau asked us to read.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.104.0	"In the context of the development work of the National Energy Transition Pact, the Parliament also urges the Government to present, within a period of six months, a deployment plan with the adjunct legislative proposals of solar, photovoltaic and wind self-consumption that favors the implementation of electricity generation technologies distributed to buildings, with active management of their demand and production of electricity, with the collection of energy storage technologies that reduce energy consumption, maximize the capacity of the electricity system and improve its overall environmental and economic sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.105.0	Thank you, secretary. Have we been asked to vote separately from points 1.c, 4 and 6, can you vote together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, So, we'll vote these three points and then we'll vote the rest of the vote, okay? [[Pause.]] So, the vote's on. We'll vote on point 1.c. The vote begins. The 1.c_point was approved by 112 votes to 9, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 112 votes to 9, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 100 votes in favour, against and 30 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on energy policy was adopted by 111 votes to 18. [[Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the European Medicines Agency]] [[302-00066/11]] The 17th item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on the European Medicines Agency, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. To expose her, has the word Ms. Montserrat Candini. [[Pause.]] Please ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence, so that we can continue the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.106.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, many thanks for your presence. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, today we are certainly debating the motion after the inquiry into the European Medicines Agency in Barcelona. I will repeat myself in some of the arguments, but it is necessary to give value to that which, at the time of the presentation, when I made the inquiry, we would comment. To say that, and to remember it, now twenty-three years ago; after the nomination, the Government wants to reinvigorate the candidacy of Barcelona as its own of the Medicines Agency. Why do we say that? So, let's say it because, like the country, Catalonia, it's a very large cluster of bioscience; with some conditions..., from a point of view too, why not? , of the conditions of connection, a point of connection north-south, Europe-Mediterranean, a point of good maritime connections, airs, land; a center of search and knowledge, with universities of prestige; a hub of multilateral organizations, and that it is obvious that all these are important elements. With the country we have some important data, from the point of view, so also from pharmaceutical laboratories. I recall again some of the most outstanding data on this industry: 230 pharmaceutical laboratories, of which a 40_per_cent, 90, are manufacturers; this xifra represents almost 50_per_cent of all the pharmaceutical industry located in the Spanish State; 21,200 people occupied in Catalonia, xifra which accounts for a 3.3_per_cent of the industrial occupation in Catalonia, and a 56,2_per_cent of the occupation of the Spanish pharmaceutical sector. Therefore, Catalonia is – let's say again today, because data and indicators make it absolutely clear – a power in pharmaceutical production in Europe, and it has a highly productive and competitive industrial sector. Catalan pharmaceutical production represents 3.5_percent of the European market and is comparable to that of the Netherlands, which is 4_per_cent; Denmark, a 3.7_per_cent; or Sweden, 3,6_per_cent. The Catalan pharmaceutical sector is therefore the 5th most productive sector in the European Union. Other items. The health sector obviously has a leading position, as we have explained since the pharmaceutical era, but for the combination of everything that represents, therefore, within the Catalan economy, in terms of added value generation and occupation. Therefore, we insist on this value of the economic engine, and hence the importance that it has for us, the importance of being able to obtain that the European Medicines Agency, therefore, now that the United Kingdom is in and, therefore, London ceases to have this agency..., we can dispose of it. From here we will present this motion, in which you say the first point: "The Parliament of Catalonia recognises the strategic importance of the European Medicines Agency for the country's joint venture and urges the Government of the Generality to push forward the candidacy for Barcelona to acquit its own agency. The second point that we have raised is: "The Catalonian Parliament urges the Government of the Generality to work together with the rest of the public administration, in particular the Barcelona Assembly, in the spirit of this candidacy and to add to it the maximum number of representatives of civil society, social agents, universities, research centres and institutes, the hospital network, the pharmaceutical industry and professional colleges. And at the third point we said: "The Parliament of Catalonia calls on the Government of the Government of the Spanish State to urge the Government of the Spanish State to carry out all the managements that correspond to it in order to defend Barcelona as its own of the European Agency for Medicinal Products. There have been, have been presentations, and of the explanations of each of the respective reviews..., I think that in the next come, therefore, we can certainly find a text that ended up representing the hope that I think that in good measure represents almost the conjunction of the 90_per_cent of this parliamentary chamber and it is possible to pull forward with this will, among all, that the European Medicines Agency can definitely come to the capital of the country, which is Barcelona. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.107.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Candini. [[Greetings.]] To defend the papers presented, the words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.108.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... train, divide, separate, wing, and it's getting worse, and it's losing opportunities. We all know that here, don't we? Some people hide it, but they know it, they all know it. We have seen this with Brexit's reference: "To be a solution, there has been food for populism, even in a democracy as advanced as that of the United Kingdom; to be a party of democracy, the reference has left a British city more divided than it was already. In any case, a legal decision has been made, Brexit is Brexit, and the Kingdom Unit will suffer the loss of European bodies such as the European Medicines Agency. That, as Congresswoman Candini said two weeks ago, is an opportunity, an opportunity for Barcelona that we cannot let go. To the Catalan People's Party we are glad that they present this young man, we will support him, and even more enthusiastically after Mrs. Candini, therefore, has accepted two of the three themes of our party. These are some of the things that we think are necessary, because they technically improve the text, but let's also say that they help a better collaboration with the Government of Spain. You must have told them – now you are not here, but you must have told them – Vice President Junqueras, who has had a dialogue attitude on this issue – more than other independent leaders –: the Government of Spain has a firm willingness to bring this agency to Barcelona. But, of course, after what we saw in Parliament yesterday, I will already be allowed to express some thoughts that I may not be able to say. I can't help the feeling that someone here is scamming us: either they're fooling us today with a young man who gives us the fact that here they will respect the legal framework, the Constitution and the Community Treaties, because this agency will only come to Catalonia if we guarantee a minimum of legal and political stability, or they're fooling us yesterday when they say they start a full road to break it all and don't subject you to anything. Because if Brexit is Brexit, out is out, independence is independence. And, as all European institutions – all – and the Community treaties say, a region that separates from a Member State remains outside the European Union. We won't get the benefit of Brexit if here the predominant one is Brexit's speech. And it is that the Lords of Together for Yes you are proposing a full route that would leave us out of the European Union, even before the United Kingdom. So, either they're cheating today or they're cheating today. They cannot tell the Catalans that they would separate themselves from the rest of Spain, that they would create an assembly of omnipotent separatists, along with a Western democracy, something more like the Olympus from the gods or the Komintern, carrying the division of powers, without respect for the law– neither the Statute, nor the Constitution, nor the Community treaties or the rest–, and, at the same time, to ensure that the European Union respects its values and principles, among them, certainly, and hardly important, respect for the state of law and territorial integrity of the states. Or one thing or another. The CUP cannot be satisfied to keep power in Catalonia and appear to respect the laws before the European Union to obtain an agency. Perhaps you do not know, but I am looking at what the programme of its members, of the CUP, says: « The CUP - Crida Constituent rejects being part of the European Union, the euro, NATO and the euro army. I don't need to be a politician to know that these aren't the best partners to ask for things before the European Union. Recticiquin, no longer the obstacle to the potentialities of Barcelona, because the European Medicines Agency is an opportunity that we cannot let go. Mrs Candini explained this to the question: it is a key sector for the protection of people, which represents an economy of present, because salvation is the second most important sector, in terms of occupation, in Catalonia; but it also represents the economy of the future: it is innovation, it is research. And this is one of the most important, most interesting agencies in the European Union. Rectifyquin. Threatening to break the legal mark is the worst presentation target before the European institutions. In the face of the European Union, separatism is a major threat to the health of society, which is both said and defended. Recticiquin, because the commitment of the Government of Spain and the People's Party because the European Medicines Agency comes to Barcelona is total. You're not the worst obstacle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.109.0	Thank you, Mr. Milián. The words of Mr. David Mejía, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.110.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies... [[The orator shows the chamber a full.]] « Brexit leaves the European Medicines Agency without its seat. Germ, are you okay? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, we're doing better. « Where will the European Medicines Agency go if there is Brexit? Look, these headlines perfectly, for one thing, place the negative consequences that it supposes to leave the European Union and that the United Kingdom is now patenting; also place the consequences that it implies the disconnection and the future loss of opportunity. But they also show us other opportunities for different countries, for other cities, such as Barcelona, which after the year 92 can again apply to join the European Medicines Agency. And we have to tell them that we are very satisfied. We are satisfied, even if we have not accepted our ideas, that we sincerely believe that they enrich the text and make a better motion, we are satisfied because with this initiative the Government demonstrates, regardless of what happened yesterday in the plenary and with the spectacle they offered yesterday in the plenary, that it wants to remain part of Spain and, therefore, wants to remain part of Europe, because, as you know, one thing without the other has not been felt at the moment. Look, betting on this candidacy is very good for Catalonia. Barcelona deserves to hold its own from the European Medicines Agency. And, plus, we know we're capable of embracing it. And we also know that the requirements necessary to formalize this candidacy and to be a real alternative. From Ciutadans we have already publicly supported this agency to come, and today we will do it again. We will do it again, because we know that this is supposed to create new jobs; suppose that talent returns to Catalonia, and not only that it returns, but also paralyzes its escape; suppose it grows economically; increase our international prestige, be a more powerful tourist attraction and promote the brand of Barcelona, the brand of Catalonia, and also the brand of Spain. As Mrs Candini has already said, Catalonia has 230 pharmaceutical laboratories, which accounts for 50 % of the national total, and we have a pharmaceutical production which accounts for 3.5 % at European level, which are very good figures. Therefore, they are still good arguments to defend the convenience that this European Medicines Agency comes to Barcelona. But that's why I want to warn – and I do so in order to keep the objectives clear – that the issue we are dealing with on the table is a clear example of the difficult consequences that they would assume if they were materialized in the separatist objectives of what today, paradoxically, are the ones presenting this young man, who would not have any sense if Catalonia did not form part of Spain and, therefore, of the European Union. I repeat, this young man would not have any sense if Catalonia did not form part of Spain and, therefore, of the European Union. Mirin, I am currently in surplus of a scientific society of Community pharmaceuticals, and at my job I had a daily contact with different laboratories, certainly many of them of Catalan origin. And do you know what the answer was given to me on behalf of the company when they talked about respecting the separatist positions the government has? So, that many of them– many of them– changed their own to other cities of Espanya. And do they know what that's supposed to mean? Yes, you know that, but I want to remember: I would suppose to diminish our industrial and economic potential, I would suppose to reduce many places of work, I would suppose to reduce our chances of staying in the front row of R & D & I. In conclusion, I am counting on our support at the time of work for Barcelona's candidacy. I count on our efforts from our parliamentary group here in the Parliament of Catalonia, and also from the Congress of Deputies, to achieve it, and I count on the Government of Spain, which is who finally has the power because this comes to a good end. We wait to get it and, once we get it, we wait for the agency not to move again because of the separatist delusion that some carry in their full route and that, as has been seen with Brexit, only carries negative consequences. Gentlemen of the Government, for the sake of Catalonia, don't make a mistake on the road and, please, don't put borders on us blocking the doors of Europe and the world. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.111.0	Thank you, Mr. Mejía. Then comes the words of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.112.0	Thank you, President. We will give support to this young man, as our company and company are doing in the government of the Barcelona Assembly, trying to lead – and I know that they have also shown to the advisors here – that Barcelona is yours of the European Medicines Agency. They did so the year 92 from the City Government, leading also from the city..., all that at that time – and I remember it was the Olympic year – we had a little reunion for which the Government of the Generality was then. I want to remind you that the Pujol government has always looked with great fear at what the city of Barcelona did. I'm glad it's not like that today. It is true that this was joined by other interests, diplomats and economics, which made London its choice at the end. We are now opening a second opportunity, even though there are many questions about how British disconnection will occur. Some of the companies that preceded me have also added and added as many questions as they generated after the vote yesterday. I would also like to remind you that such important cities as Copenhagen, Stockholm or Milà, with a great pharmaceutical tradition and the pharmaceutical industry, have already chosen this European Medicines Agency; important cities, all of them, which will make it important..., it is to say that there will be a hard competition and will need something that says the same resolution, the same thing that Mrs Candini has presented, which is the intense collaboration both of the industry and of the research centres, the academics, the professional colleges, but above all it will warm up an intense collaboration, which, moreover, between the Generality of Catalonia, the Assembly of Barcelona and the Government of Spain. That is why we welcome the incorporation of some points that the People's Party has put forward in this sense of working together, because what we want is a united defence of Barcelona as its own. It must be, I understand, that the talks between Vice-President Junqueras and Vice-President Sáenz of Santamaría have gone well in this aspect; of the rest, I know nothing more. But in any case, it seems that this is a symptom. We want to welcome the work commission announced by the Health Councillor, but I would perhaps complain that the inter-agency committee already leaves with a shared leadership that makes it possible to present not only the departments of the Generalitat, but also the government of the State. Adding what has been said about the import of the pharmaceutical industry to our country and to our city– Catalunya hosts today about 50_percent of the Spanish pharmaceutical industry– but also claim – and today it is my city, Barcelona – the cluster of health sciences that the city has, beyond the industry; all the topic in search of health sciences, in biomedical research is one of the most important axes on which we can contribute when we claim this agency. Institutes such as the Biomedical Research Park, the CRG and many others are, in terms of generation of knowledge and innovation, our best presentation card to join the agency, and, therefore, present us; without underestimating the direct or indirect economic impacts that the agency can bring to the city and Catalonia. I hope that we will approve, therefore, today this young man; that we will do so with the maximum of consent, so that we start working with the maximum of cooperation; ask them to incorporate the Barcelona Assembly into this initial work and also the entire Government of the State, so that we can bring this agency and this request forward. As long as we see how the questions that are left open about the release of the United Kingdom of the European Union are resolved. There are many questions, there are some headlines, but little has been clarified about how it will be produced, so as not to mention the questions that we opened yesterday through their votes and their resolutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.113.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Escarp. Next has the word Albano Dante Fachin, in representation of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.114.0	Thank you. Well, I'm beginning to say that we're going to raise this young man; it seems like an opportunity has been opened up to which various cities aspire. Well, Barcelona has the ability to do it. It's also true that it would be worth highlighting, isn't it? And the people who preceded me have already done so, that presenting Brexit as an opportunity, joyfully, is risky; maybe there are some, maybe there are some that are all the contrary to opportunities. But I, more than approving and supporting this proposal, think I can say a few things about the way this proposal has been put forward. We felt the other day at the inquiry and today at the introduction of the motion by Mrs Candini..., makes the feeling that we are talking about the economy and the salvation of people in a way that is very barricaded, right? , that, "great economic opportunities and salvation..., and it's all there in a speech. It is important to take account of the speech of economic opportunity, of growth, of..., with a theme as delicate as that of the salvation of people, especially considering that there is no mass in Catalonia, of merchants, at the gates of the temple of the salvation of people. It must be done with great care; we are talking about two things that on many occasions have been seen to be incompatible. The second thing. We're talking about our pharmaceutical industry, right? Like a country thing. I'm coming, our pharmaceutical industry. Without a doubt, no one can deny that it is an important part of the Catalan economic fabric, that there have been opportunities for negotiations, but we should remember, because it seems that here we are all going to one and the pharmaceutical industry, and the agency of the drug, and together we will do a lot of mackerel..., do not forget that the agency of the drug has to control, if it works well, it has to control what the pharmaceutical industry does, right? Let's make this clear, because if someone doesn't know what the pharmaceutical industry is all about and what the agency is all about... it seems like everyone is very happy with... control. So, we're not all together; it would be a mistake if it was just a party where we all had a good time. Last: great economic opportunity, also for the pharmaceutical industry. I want to remember – and I'm sure the counselor knows this – that we have a problem..., many, but there is not one that has come out either: we are the second most medicalized country in the world. That's not good – that's not good. If we want to solve it and we want to correct it..., I imagine that – depending on how – the pharmaceutical industry will not help us to demedicate our society. Therefore, before this problem that we have and before this great burden on the pharmaceutical industry and the opportunities that arise, we also need to remember that, as a society, we have this problem and that, in order to solve it, at some point, it may be necessary to make it clear whether we are here to defend the salvation of people or to defend the results account of the pharmaceutical industry. I'm not talking about incompatible issues, but if we do things right at some point this conflict will be given. And as representatives of general interest and not representatives of the interest of the pharmaceutical industry, I hope that when the time comes for this conflict we are much clearer than now, as things stand, what we are doing here and what is the ultimate objective of what we are doing here. To the band of that, more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.115.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fachin. Then has the word "Mireia Boya", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.116.0	Ben, good morning to all of you. You go before him, because he is very happy, because he has added many grottos that he has gathered and Brexit, and I want him to be important because he was legitimized from a territory to self-determine and they are future. Many thanks, comrades of Socialists, of Ciutadans and deth PP. There is no doubt that we have found a country where they will recognize the right and right of self-determination of Catalonia when we are hesque in our referendum, which will be well read. We're focusing on the European Agency for Drugs, two data. It was first – listen well, eh? –: 29,000 per cent– 29,000 per cent – and it was an astronomical difference between production cost and sales cost here in Spain of a treatment of twelve weeks into hepatitis C, although a medicine called Sofosbuvir; a medicine that in India is made as generic and that was European Union if and when it was denied, it is not intended to make it as generic, but rather to negotiate eth prètz also was the pharmaceutical industry. Second given: 40 million Euros; 40 million Euros and what was the pharmaceutical industry spends every year lobbying just now European Agency deth Drug. This was the European Agency deth Medicine and one of the worst health lobbying deth planet; the age lagoons operate all the pharmaceutical industry that consolidates the rotations between macropharmaceuticals and acute organism. Eth control of medicines and now madeish a problem among the popular classes, because it was the European Agency deth medicine to rebaishat, to petition of august lobbies, that they invest 40 million euros a year, is required then to consider a placebo as medicine; to create new medical needs, to trade with patents, and to have excluded now class worker, now that months only, to give access to these medicines. Both atau, what was the presidency, Damb Junquer ena Commission, d'aguesta, dera Agence Européa deth Medicament, passéc dera Commission de Salut ara Commission d'Empresa e Industria. That's why you're asking a lot of causes. Was the European Agency deth medicine ei salut o ei company and industry? It was the European Commission's refusal to make a request for fifteen countries to no longer produce a generic hepatitis C, otherwise pressure would be lowered by the pretices. Here's the shadow of swivel doors, the August lobby, the 40 million anaus, the planegen ath desusus de aguesta Agence Européa deth Medicinal product. From then on, it was the Federation of Associations in Defense of the Public Health. It seems that it is 80 per cent of this money that comes from multinational augusts, that it does not mean that they do not want to lower eth prètz, that we are at 29,000 per 100 more nau, or that we spend 40 million years in the lobby. Do we know what we want to bring home? It seems to me that... for the time being, it is the power of pharmaceutical laboratories in Spain that is following one of the countries with a storehouse in the middle of the world. One out of every four euros in the hotel has gone to the pharmacy. And that's why I depend on the multinationals I told them. And I don't want to; pharmaceuticals are taking advantage of R & D that there are public universities in this country: we are publicly investigating, we were taking advantage of their patents, and we are major customers, we are paying two fees for medicines, gentlemen. Entara CUP - Crida Constituenta e e evidente que cao cao affirar per uma pharmaceutica publica, aci aci aum aguem, form part of this model because we would allow universal access to medicines, and, in the mean time, it was the creation of a public pharmaceutical system aurie to abstar was sought, it was production, it was distribution of pharmaceuticals that was lost either patent or that, without losing it, it was considered necessary by reason of public salvation, and therefore it had to be expropriated was patent. After all, it's a cause. This candidacy has to support eth Govèrn der Etat. What the hell are we doing here, alavetz? Don't we start disconnecting? What are we asking now?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.117.0	Thank you, Miss Boya. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Montserrat Candini.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.118.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to be able to highlight the excellent, let us say, of the conversations that we have had with the different groups, more than certain positions in some of the papers, logically, above all those of the People's Party and also of Ciutadans, in which, therefore, they came to say that holding the agency, the agency of the medicine, was a condition without..., because in one way or another, therefore, to us, according to you, it could be that we fessin' outside of the European Union if we definitely know what we want to be, that it is a state of the European Union. It is obvious that our world is the world, that there is no greater border than that which is the..., from the point of view..., therefore, the mental border of certain cultural areas that they claim is that their way of reporting politics is to be subject. Therefore, as we have made it clear that it can only be universal to what is respected by locals..., and it can only be universal with all the potentials for all territories. That said, we have the privilege of being part of a territory that has a lot of opportunities, which has a lot of talent, which is a territory, therefore, rich from many and many ages, above all the degree of involvement of people, effort, perseverance, and that is what has made us, in the end and in the end, an absolutely combative people. To say also that, in any case, they say that well, that they do not know for sure if well we, therefore, could pull forward, because we ended up feeling something segregator. Mirin, tell them that Junts for the Yes – the name says – are we together; for the Yes? Okay, but we're together, because we're people we're carrying in our DNA trying to add everything we can to pull forward. In short, thank you very much for the contributions. To say that what we are going to vote on is: « The Parliament of Catalonia recognises the strategic importance that the European Medicines Agency has for the country as a whole, and that it urges the Government of the Generality to push together – obviously, because we are doing it with everyone – with the Government of Spain the candidacy for Barcelona to acquit its own agency. Give thanks also, therefore, to the conjunction of the Barcelona Assembly, in a very special way to the head of the opposition, Mr Xavier Trias, who presented a whole series of proposals, let us say, to urge and jointly present this petition before the Commission of Economics and History. And, in any case, say, to end, that without research policy, obviously – obviously – we would be in this sense a smaller country. And say anyway that I don't know if we're too much of a town... - I don't know, huh? In any case – with some high medical percentages – I say, in any case, Deputy Dante; some element has – but with which I do stay, in any case, it is with the indicator that we are a people's people with the greatest hope of life. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.119.0	Thank you, Mrs. Candini. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We will vote for the motion – we will vote for the motion. No separate vote has been requested; therefore, we will vote on the motion together. The vote begins. The motion on the European Medicines Agency was approved by 121 votes to 10 with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the airport policy of the Spanish State and AENA and its impact on the recent problems of Vueling]] [[302-00067/11]] The agenda item is: Motion following the Government's inquiry into the airport policy of the Spanish State and AENA and its impact on the recent issues of Vueling, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. To expose her, has the word Mr. Marc Sanglas. They ask you, please, as always, to leave in silence and in a hurry to continue the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.120.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Vice-President, in any case, the result of the inquiry that this parliamentary group did in the past Ple, in which we examined, for a band, the situation of Vueling..., but it will not be object of this motion, since the councillors Baiget and Rull compared last week in the case of the Commission of Territories ; therefore, there have already been given the appropriate explanations about the activity, the actions carried out for the Government of the Generality before the Vueling crisis. And, therefore, it seems to us that from this point of view it became clear that it is what the government had done and, therefore, is not necessary. [[remorse of the voice]] head type of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.121.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.122.0	...declaration, by the way. And, therefore, we have focused, basically, on this motion to talk about the airport model, which seems to us to be essential for the construction of this country, and therefore, let's say, from this point of view it seemed worth focusing on this area. And, therefore, from this point of view we have done so. We have set up a first point, in the House, which seems to us to respect what has been done in this country in the last few days, basically what it is to claim from the Government of the State the transfer of ownership of the airports of Prat, Girona, Reus and Sabadell as long as we can manage it from Catalonia. It seems to us that the current system, AENA's airport policy, is an ineffective system, it is an outdated system, in which, let us say, there is an airline that takes all the benefits of centralized planning. We believe that the model that demands modernity, which the country claims, which ultimately demands competitiveness today in Europe, is an individualised management of airports; the model, for example, of which other European airports are making and which, therefore, demonstrates that this competition between airports is necessary and positive and has very positive effects. We understand that this model of management from Catalonia would generate us..., we would be able to work much more with policies, to generate specific policies from the airport of Prat, and we would also succeed, that from the government and from the airport is trace and is branded with common features that would allow us to align commercial activity, tourist activity, political action on the part of the government, to the effect that it would generate an important policy that we allow – in addition to, in combination with the airport and the port of Barcelona, and also the railway system –..., that would enable us to establish an intermodal system that would allow us to be an important port, and therefore also generate a significant point of merchandise entry into the country that allows us to generate an important point. It seems to us that the fact of approaching this management... and, therefore, we claim that this management model is a consortium where there are also, the Generality, the affected assemblies, the most appropriate local administrations, in order to generate a policy that I weave. The next point of this young man, whom we are asking for support, is to end these privileges that some airlines have. Therefore, what we do is claim to the Government of the State to modify and derogate from those international agreements that cause flights to fly to the Barajas airport and make it very difficult for them to enter the Prat airport. And, therefore, let's say, it seems to us that in full 21st century this does not cease to be a model, let's say, lapse, in the sense of empowering a single airport to the detriment of others. It seems to us that enhancing efficiency, efficiency in operation is much more positive than not using a system of political decisions that end up promoting a single airport, nor without advantages or competitiveness. The current model of AENA, the centralized model, did not involve a better one in all the territories, but the one that ended up involving in most cases was the disastrous management, the disastrous construction and disastrous management of some airports that do not generate any type of benefits in the territory and, in change, generate some very important burdens. And, finally, what we are planting, also the fruit of the work that the Government is already doing, is setting a deadline for the Government to present in this Parliament the strategic plane of airports of Catalonia 2017-2030, a document that seems to us to have to see the year coming the light, which must allow us to have this generalised view, this order of all airports, of which strategy must follow all airports, which is the conjunction of airports and airports of Catalonia, which strategy must continue to work together. What we give them, work in a decentralized way, but working in the network, too, because it seems to us that it is much more interesting, from this point of view, and much more efficient. In any case, I leave for the second intervention the element, let's say, of the papers presented. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.123.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Bloods. The word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group, goes on to say "Pot".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.124.0	Thank you, President. Counselors... well, we've presented papers. We've been giving support to it ever since, and we're giving support to it because, in the end, what we're claiming in this case is what we've been complaining about when the Statute of Catalonia was discussed in 2006, that there was talk between the Parliament of Catalonia, the Generality and the State – just when the Statute was being drafted – because it came to an agreement to pass the management of the Barcelona airport – Prat to a time when it was to be led by the Generality and the Assembly of Barcelona and economic and social agents. Why? So, because AENA's management has always tended to benefit the airport of Madrid-Barajas as well as the airport of the State to the detriment and to competition..., not only to the detriment, and to enter into direct competition with the airport of Barcelona, both for what it does to the allocation of slots as to taxes, routes, and also as investments that go not directly to the airport, but investments in infrastructures linked to the airport and that guarantee intermodality. In particular we will all remember the decision that on his day he took the company Iberia, right? – among the main shareholders there was Caja Madrid –, to abandon the airport of Barcelona, to focus on the airport of Madrid-Barajas, and left the subsidiary of low cost – that then was Clickair, that after Vueling has been – to operate from Barcelona, with the policy of airport taxes of AENA, which what it did is that the companies of Ryanair abandoned..., they went to the airport of Prat and they left, for restructuring, the airports of Reus and Girona, where they also exercised monopoly. And, well, today we find ourselves, for example, with the problem at Girona airport, which we've gone from almost three million passengers to thirty thousand. Well, all these secondary issues. So, that's why we... well, that's why, because at this airport we think that the best way to manage it is from near, because we think that this, that is acting to the detriment of the airport of Barcelona and we will give it support. On the points that we have presented; for us it is important a point that speaks that this plan that has to be approved of the airports 2017-2030, that we understand that when it is approved, will have been evaluated the plan that on your day it has presented, 2009-2015, that it has introduced the councillor Nadal, and on which in some things at that time we have not agreed; we have incorporated two points that we thank to the deputy Bloods that has approved, that is the need, in this plan, to agree with the territory and with the joints where the airport installations have gone. And, above all, whenever this new plan involves new investments, that these are realizing very well the studies, the cost-benefit analysis and the risks of social and environmental impact, because that I remember that it was a theme that came out precisely in the conclusions of when we did the investigation commission on the failure of Spanair, that was one of the themes that came out, that precisely in the failure there were reports both of Lufthansa and of SAS that were not impartial, that they operated on their part. And many times we ask for external reports and these external reports, sometimes, are not so external. That's why it was important that when we do this we take into account all the elements, and we can do these analyses, and when we look for external consultants, we look at whether they're really external and impartial or part-time. We also appreciate the incorporation of the reference message – we have come to a compromise – to carry out a study of working conditions. Why? Because it's true: the workers and the workers, the handlers, right? The handlers, we find that, like there's a lot of contests already, they've subrogated a lot of businesses, and, as they say, right? , at each bug we lose a lençol, and these workers at each subcontract of these lose or are lost work conditions or are lost work places. So, that's old 'cause that's not how it is. And above all, you do a study because really the working conditions of airport workers and workers, so, we believe that many times they are incomplete, they are not fulfilling the labour regulations. We have seen this lately in all the conflict with Vueling, but we also saw it with all the conflicts we had at Reus airport will make a couple of years, or those that have been made at Girona airport. Therefore, I think we need to get old for the working conditions of the workers and the workers. And, finally, we also believe that we have to move forward, if we really want Prat airport to be converted into a hub, we need to move forward on this line. And so, I'm saying, we'll give support to the three points of the show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.125.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.126.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, Councillor, MPs, MPs, I understand you've focused everything on airport management, because with Vueling's theme the government has done like the airline: it's been late and it's done badly, huh? Among other things, why do we have powers to defend consumers and, therefore, the users of the airline, and it's been a whole week since the Government of the Generality, like the Government of the State, left Vueling users with some bad conditions, huh? This week's bad head. Because Vueling's problems I think they have little to do with the centralizing attitude of the state government to the airport model, huh? You're more likely to see the cobidity of the airline, the poor planning of its model, at high times, as it is at these times in summer, and to squeeze the company's resources to the limit. That's why I'm saying that you arrived as the company, in this crisis: late and bad. I'm talking about the airport system, right? , and from the management of the model of the Prat, we continue with the controversy, we follow with these loops in which, sometimes, the Catalan policy is installed, and now it is time to demand the total transfer of the railway system, and it is time to demand the total transfer of the airport of Barcelona, with the argument that we will thus have more possibilities than the airport of Barcelona - El Prat is converted into a hub of intercontinental flights. I'll talk about it later, huh? , of the model. You know what the model of the socialists is for the airport management of the state council, the Catalan socialists, not just for the Prat airport, huh? We believe in the individualised management of the country's airports, especially of the three or four sources of the network; therefore, in a competitive model. Now, does that serve or is that the only argument to defend that we're going to earn a market share? This position is questionable. Until now, all eleven years back, we say: "If the flag company is withdrawn – which was then Iberia; the states had flag companies –" from the airport of Barcelona, with an evil decision of the central government, from a point of view of competition, this will be fatal. So, miri, it turns out that no: of the airports of the Spanish State that have exponentially grown the most, we have the airport of Barcelona. The reversal of the T1 was instrumental for this growth and released the T2 because low cost companies, so also fess to serve this terminal in this sense. Will a transfer of all resources to the Government of the Generality help to ensure that Barcelona is an international hub? Not necessarily, because the company..., who decides if an airport goes on this line are not the governments of the territories, but they end up with decisions of the airlines for operational and commercial reasons. Singapore Airlines' decision this past week is on this line. And with these forty seconds left... Miri, we don't agree with the strongly centralized model that AENA has, we don't share it. We also share the idea of privatizing AENA's joint venture to avoid, precisely, the fragmentation of the model, to keep it grouped in the hands of a private company; we are for an individualized management, therefore, a management of the Prat airport in which there is a presence and which is determined by the Government of the Generality, the local administrations, and also with participation of the Government of the State. This is our position. We have presented a message to them in this sense, that I know they have not accepted it, and, therefore, from the point..., they have asked for a separate vote from the first point, and that we cannot vote for it. The rest of the points does know that we share the criteria.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.127.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. Next is the word of Mrs Marina Bravo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.128.0	Thank you, President. Will we ever be able to talk about infrastructure here? Because I'd love to, but no. We had a very nice inquiry fifteen days ago that seemed to be yes, that we were talking about airports, airport management models, we were talking about point-to-point or network connections, hubs... But then what they bring us to vote on are not proposals on Catalan infrastructure, no, they are proposals on state structures. And what brings us to vote, moreover, are their mantras, you can almost read: point 1, "we would do better; point 2, "Spain steals from us. It's just that you can almost read. Finally, the third point was somewhat missing, the 'guilty is Madrid', but when the motion was tabled I see that it was in both points, including. Well, look, we're not going to support or aggravate, let alone..., I was going to say‘ lies, or proposals based on captious interpretations or half-truths or what they want to call them; especially when the only thing they're trying to do is to generate chryspation to see if with these arguments they can attract people to their independence cause, people who with the truths and the real facts would not want to raise any borders. I said it a couple of days ago and I'll repeat it every time we go back to a proposal like this. But since these mantras are getting a little tired and they're starting to be very boring I'm going to hide, I'm going to pretend that we're talking about airports and, besides, I think you'll be interested a little bit more, at least half of the people we have here, the public and anyone who listens to us. Besides, in any case, someone has to tell the other half of the half truths they tell. Well, 39,7_million passengers passed through Prat Airport in 2015. Absolute record of all times and, more importantly, it seems to be a trend that consolidates upwards. It has fewer intercontinental connections than other similar airports in Europe, that's right; but don't tell me you don't know it's getting much better. Or don't you know? And is that what Madrid is getting? Are you getting it with the participation you have here? It's a problem, huh? , when things that are within the competence of the Government of Spain [[the speaker laughs]] and you participate is a problem: you don't know if to say if it's thanks to Spain, if it's thanks to you, if it works well, if it works badly... What a dilemma! Generally speaking, when talking to the person who is in the garlic in these cases, it usually recognizes that the thing is going well: in ports, in airports. And, in fact, territorial participation has a lot to do with how well they go; in that we agree. Thanks to the AENA configuration we can maintain the network of airports we have. Maybe we shouldn't have that much, surely not. Perhaps not here in Catalonia either, but we have to be positive and constructive and manage the best we can, because have I ever told you that we don't care who manages things, that what we care about is how they are managed? AENA manages a network of airports that currently operates and does not require a public_investment euro, unlike other airports. And if this airport model has to evolve, which is certainly so, we will have to open a debate, but we will have to open it in Congress because today we are not in the place that it touches. With regard to bilateral agreements... – and here I am addressing the rest of the groups a little bit, to see if I can change some sense of vote I have heard about here – this issue of bilateral agreements somewhat meets the three characteristics that fulfill many of their lies of « Spain robs us. One is that he has something real – this was said, many people have commented, Borrell heard it the other day – that he has a little truth. Yes, there are bilateral agreements, agreements with other countries where the word "Madrid", which has to be flown from Lima to Madrid, there are, there are. Two, which is repeated many times, every time they can or every time a new route or destination doesn't go well and in the end it doesn't end up arriving at Prat, because it's Madrid's fault, sure. And point three, which they're interested in believing, it's not going to be that they don't fly to Barcelona because they don't care, no. That would be very ugly. We are interested to believe that it is because there is an agreement, a role, where it tells them that we let them fly to Madrid. That's not the case. It's been many years since the Barcelona Air Routes Development Committee was set up; you're there, you see how it works every day, you know it, so you can't even shield yourself from ignorance. The Generalitat of Catalonia is there, the City of Barcelona is there, the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona. The Barcelona Chamber of Commerce specifically commissioned a study on bilateral agreements between Spain and the rest of the world, i.e. they are fully aware of the situation. These bilateral agreements exist because the aviation world is very complex, and when they are established..., and to fly between..., in Europe they are no longer necessary, everyone can fly wherever they want, but with other countries they establish agreements where they are fixed "how many times a week, " from where, depending on where they are interested in companies. With many countries, right now, Madrid is fixed; with other Madrid and Barcelona; with others..., other Paris companies, with other sites. Do we repeal them all? And these agreements do not prevent that if a company is interested in flying to Barcelona because it flies, and asks that the corresponding agreement be drafted, it is written, fixed and flown to Barcelona. That's right, and you know it. And I've run out of time, even if no one tells me..., but anyway... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. The joker laughs.]] It's not about erasing what we have, it's about building new things. Building is slow, it's expensive. Dynamite is instantaneous and has no merit, that should be remembered for this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.129.0	We've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.130.0	...and for everything. Yes, yes... Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.131.0	Thank you, Mrs. Bravo. Then there's the word "Mr. Alejandro Fernández".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.132.0	Thank you, President. Well, after analyzing the transactions to which it came, this young man has two different parts. One, which is the 3 added points that have been agreed, which we consider adient: effectively it needs a strategic plan of airport 2017-2030; it is necessary, it is urgent, to do so, and we believe that the conditions that are between the motion in the proposals of other political formations are correct. The rest has explained very well Ciutadans's wallet: prejudices, falsehoods, myths. The phonetic, indeed, is this second which you, by infused science, which is said, would do better, when reality proves that it is all the contrary. On a parliamentary question I had the opportunity in a schematic way to explain that it's all the contrary, that you used to do much worse. If we look at how they managed Lleida, Andorra, the « cosmic drill – as I defined that day Spanair. Spanair as halfway through the deliris of grandia in airport matter of nationalism in Catalonia. I summed up, in short, his management, saying that God had not cried them out on the way to airport management, so you should learn from those who do know how to do it. We dig a mike in the damage, in the mantras. AENA and the Government of Spain work, it seems, rise every morning obsessed with damaging the airport of Prat. So, it turns out that Prat, in the later three exercises– 2012, 13, 14 and 15– has reached 37_million users, has reached its record, the better figures of its history and, in some parameters, better than Madrid. This is the persecution that you refer to and have remained with an absolute majority government of the People's Party; hence, you also forget. These figures, of course, contrast dramatically with those you are able to take to the managing airports of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Therefore, until you prove the contrary, you do not know how to manage airports. Continue, too, with more mantras: this one from civil society and the cooperating Generality. You've still been civil society, you've made party projects – party projects. At Femcat and Spanair it was a party project, it was not the civil society spontaneously generating a project. And he got them out the way he got them out and then they say that the blame, as always, is for AENA when it turns out that even Spanair still gives AENA more than 40_million euros, that what AENA has done is practically to postpone this issue, not to talk too much about it, because, in the end, it is known that everything there is harming the system together. And it's not just that, it's not just the mantra of this civil society and the good public-private cooperation that they assume, and it's false, but if we're to summarise their actions on these projects, we can talk directly about bad practices, not to mention something else. Because only bad practice can be said, worth the phonetic redundancy, of the contract of Europraxis, of Josep Pujol Ferrusola, or the inn ahead of the project of Ferran Soriano and Joan Roca Segarra, people who deserve all the respect, but who did not have any experience in the world airport. And after all that up Vueling. Look, the culprit for everything that's happened to this situation is Vueling. Guilty and responsible, which I made clear. And the government of Catalonia to which he has so far dedicated, and has worked hard, is trying to convince the government of Spain not to sanction Vueling hard. You've done something like a Vueling lobby, and you have to say it. With this converging practice of making great gestures in this chamber, but then calling to Madrid: "Please, please, please, please, do not punish Vueling, do not swallow the slots... It's what you're doing, because we're being explained, Mr. Counselor – they're explaining it to us. And, therefore, much better than AENA manages the interests of consumers who do so as a Vueling lobby. And I'm the one with which I want this intervention to end. We ask them, please, that it is placed at the consumer's side and not at the company's side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.133.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. The words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.134.0	Well, thank you, President. Someone said in this room: "Thank you, Constitutional Court; everything started with you. He didn't need all the reason. God doesn't, everything that started in 2010, but God doesn't, too, how infrastructure policy has generated a climate of entrepreneurship that, effectively, therefore, independence has managed to channel politically. Every day, however, the railway issue has to do with the news of the trains that fail, the trains that fail because of a lack of investment; but God also has to do with airport policy; that, in fact, it generated a massive act by March 2007, in which, therefore, various representatives, especially from the business world, who are a little accustomed to political protest, but, at last, in that case, so few suspicions of independence and of, let's say, revolutionaries or subversives, such as Treball's Foment, the camera or the wire have agreed to make a political act and, indeed, demand that, for another time, we return here to debate, do not ask again, do we? , the transfer of airport management. Without this management of an airport, it has no tools to encourage one company or another to continue... which is its main provider of flights. Therefore, effectively, you do have to see Vueling's question – which is who manages 40_percent of flights at the Prat airport – whether or not you are managing this airport and whether or not you are a low-cost company. And it's not an aesthetic issue, it's not that I'm wearing more that I would be the main company at your airport with the fact that Vueling is. The fact that a company is low cost has to see with the conditions that the users and workers of these companies suffer. The hardships of the users, therefore, we know; it has been mentioned in this House, and it is spoken of, also, in the appearance of the advisers of the Territories and of the Enterprise, and, indeed, it is a question of the fact that the Generality is always at the side in defending the rights of the consumer. And from the questions of... we find it certain that in the final version of the motion it was also about working conditions. Indeed, therefore, the delays and cancellations of Vueling are the result of a business policy that clears the maximum margins to obtain more benefits; some benefits that exist, in the case of this company, that the financial year 2015 was 95,3_million euros. Clear the margins with the planes, clear the margins with the staff. And, therefore, I repeat that this young man is referring to the staff, so he is also very adept. Therefore, you do have to see airport management with Vueling crisis, crisis of this company. The other part of the young man, in which he refers to the limitations that are posed by the international flights that arrive in the Spanish State and that have to pass through Madrid, I think that..., well, there are twenty-three treaties that are counted that make reference to this, and, I insist, also, who talks about it, so, they are not independent parties, they are not independent civil society, they are reports of the chamber of commerce; they are not invented, I hope. The same European Parliament voted against this policy, I don't think it is related to all these MEPs for such... from independence propaganda. One point: the Skyscanner flight searcher presented a couple of months ago a study on flights that do not exist more demanded for travellers, and, for example, from outside Barcelona there is a lot of demand for people who would want to fly directly from Seoul, Mexico, Caracas or Hong Kong to Barcelona, and they are flights, therefore, that do not exist. Conversely, from Barcelona, the one who asks the most people, and that does not exist, therefore, Bangkok, Tokyo, Lima, San José, Costa Rica, and Santiago de Xile. In many of these cases there is a lack of a commercial offer, but I doubt that, if there is so much demand, this commercial offer is not given, in many of the others, especially with Llatinoamerica, there are these treaties that require companies to fly to the Madrid airport. That's a hundred_per_cent policy, that's national construction – that before it was talked about, in the case of the old Penedès – that's national construction of the good, done from the radial scheme of infrastructures, and, therefore, it does have to be approached politically. We say yes to this young man. We believe that the Catalan management of airports is entitled to direct international flights and the working conditions of the people who are in the world of airports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.135.0	Thank you, Mr. Botran. Next, has the word Mr. Marc Sanglas, to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.136.0	Thank you, President. Miri, this deputy has volunteered to incorporate items, and therefore, let's say, through Mrs Grau, we have incorporated them. I spoke, too, with the rest of the doorman. He told me that he did not; that in any case, we had presented his papers, not willingly integrating them into the text, but to show, let's say, what was his position. Therefore, let's say, from this point of view we have offered the possibility of trading, but there was no willingness. He's nascent on the part of some groups of a mantra, of the chaff, of dynamite... no, no... escort, we don't want to dynamite absolutely nothing, we want to build. And this country is trying to build. To build despite the fact that we have a state that doesn't help us at all. Some of the spokespersons, who preceded me, clearly explained, the demand for the individualized management of the airport of Barcelona, is not an independentist mantra, it is not a nationalist mantra, it is a mantra of civil society and economic society, it needs..., which is necessary because this country is able to develop economically. And that didn't just happen with the airport of Barcelona – but, look, listen, it's that these nationalists are a bunches – no, no... That's also happened with the port of Barcelona, too, with the inability to generate investments that allow us to take goods. And you know it perfectly well. And you know there's been a political intention in all this, it's not that you haven't been able to do it, it's not that there's no one I don't want to do with this. And when there were options, when there was a willingness to pull practices... And it is true that not only with the management of the airport is an international hub obtained, but with the will to get an international hub it has been betting for a company; from the Spanish state – and so we will always denounce it as often as anyone else – it has boosted this operation, scaring potential investors. And that's right, and that's proven, and that's not a mantra that we invent from the nationalists, that's what it turns out that someone did hand and hand to fund an operation that wasn't a party operation, it was a country operation, because most political parties saw that this investment was necessary and there was also the civil society that was behind it. Need, this country needs infrastructure. The infrastructure deficit in this country has been thanks to the State, which has not invested and dedicated itself to investing in Madrid. Therefore, we will continue to demand the Catalan management of these infrastructures, these, airports and railways, which allow us to go out to the world without having to go through Madrid. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.137.0	Thank you, Mr. Bloods. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.138.0	Vote separate from point 3. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.139.0	Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.140.0	Yes, Madam President, for a separate vote on points 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.141.0	Separate votes were requested from points 1, 2 and 3. Can you vote together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, Okay. So, if it seems to you, we'll proceed to the vote. We will vote, first, point 1, after 2, after 3 and after the rest of the vote. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's go vote number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 80 votes to 50, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 98 votes to 33, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 130 votes to one, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion was adopted by 121 votes to 9, with no abstentions. The session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.142.0	It's part of the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into self-employment]] [[302-00068/11]] The new point of the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the government on the autonomous work, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, Ms. Laura Vílchez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.143.0	Thank you, President. The motion before you today was a necessary motion. It is a necessary and feasible motion in equal parts. What he wants is for the autonomous in Catalonia to stop being invisible, he wants to bring over them the focus of the Administration and equip them with the weapons that we have so that they do not go out into the daily open-ended struggle. Incomprehensiblely, the aid mantra of the lack of competence paralyzes this government in the matter of occupation, and stops seeking solutions for the day-to-day Catalans and focuses its action on creating state macrostructures. Incomprehensiblely, this mantra absorbs so much time and so much resources that they do not stop to think really effective measures for SMEs and autonomous, curiously when these represent more than 99_per_cent of the business fabric of Catalonia, and have supported, also, in times of crisis and with much effort, the Catalan economy. In Ciutadans we believe that those who generate employment must be strengthened in order to consolidate job creation in Catalonia. And this must be done through direct aid, effective and very concrete programmes. This motion is a clear example that lack of competence cannot be the excuse for everything. This motion is a clear example of what can be done, what should already be done and not done by omission, inaction or abandonment. Let me tell you that if we can't approve this battery of measures today, it's not because they can't; it's simple and plain because they don't want to. Because the first point of this motion proposes a direct subsidy to the new autonomous, but direct, which directly affects the pocket of those who undertake new economic activities, and which would be a relief in the first months of implementation. This item would amount to the same cost to the Administration as the increase they had foreseen in the 2016 budget for the department of the Ministry of Romeva. You value what investment is most useful, whether you continue to do separatist propaganda around the world or lend a hand to raise the blind to the Catalan autonomous. Let us give them more time to establish themselves and to consolidate themselves. Why not? Madrid does it, Cantabria does it, some Catalan municipalities do it, with good results all of them, and the Generalitat did it a few years ago. We are therefore going to leave the debate on competences for another matter, because if this is not approved today, it is because they do not want to. The following two points: we are going to work with the SOC by and for the self-employed, while favoring the most vulnerable groups that have among their associates, who are the older than forty-five years and the heads of single-parent families, which we could almost, de facto, talk about single-parent families. We will collaborate with them by providing ideas for very specific programs that for us are a win-win. Facilitate the transfer of consolidated businesses run by self-employed people who are about to retire in favour of the unemployed, preferably the most vulnerable groups I have mentioned before. Let us help the person who has just returned to the labour market to start his career as a new self-employed person, facilitating the conditions of the operation of the transfer of the activity he will receive. Two. Facilitate the day-to-day and working conditions of self-employed persons who are forced to take the maternity, paternity, accident at work or temporary incapacity leave, also in favour of the unemployed, with the preference of the most vulnerable groups mentioned above. Create a bag where these self-employed people can appeal and find a replacement while they are unable to stay in their business. That is to say, one, to facilitate the generational relief of consolidated businesses, and two, to facilitate the replacement of self-employed. Wise proposals, which, if not approved, are not because they cannot; it is because they do not want to. In the fourth point, we call for a review, a thorough review of the programmes that already exist, which are, in theory, already aimed at self-reliant, with the intention of drawing their own conclusions on how to improve functioning, management, especially utility and results. The Government knows, as we know, that the results of these programmes have fallen into jeopardy. Thus, Xarxa Emprèn has spent, in one year, caring for 26,000 people to serve only 13,000, investing more resources in a year where more than 7,000 new highs have occurred. And finally, the Català Council of Autonomous Work. Since 2010 we have had a decree calling for its constitution. It is not easy, perhaps because of the ambiguity of the same decree, but to save those difficulties they have been six years, and it is no longer serious, so, if this is not approved today, it is because they do not want to. It is unacceptable that a collective such as the Catalan autonomous ones continue to be...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.144.0	Congresswoman, it's hard to tell...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.145.0	...to this day...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.146.0	...but he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.147.0	...for this government, invisible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.148.0	Thank you, Mrs. Vílchez. To defend the papers presented, has the word Lord Albert Botran, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.149.0	Well, thank you. A pair of previous considerations, the first of which also refers to a mantra, and it is that the speech "if you're done, make yourself an entrepreneur or make yourself autonomous, is not neutral either, and end up presenting the situation of the people's plight as an individual responsibility. We're talking, for example, about these people who look like they're in a critical situation, right? , so much for one band, the monomarentals, like, for another band, the people forty-five to fifty-five. So, to the logical feeling of frustration that you have been expelled from the labour market, you have to superpose, as an attitude of personal overcoming, because the gurus of self-help say that life offers you the opportunity to reinvent you..., end up giving the individual the possibilities of this, of finding work, and of "if not, then mount your own work; seek it, that work is there. And it's not true, it's social problems, it's the dynamics of capitalism, of when capitalism changed in the '70s and '80s, and, therefore, it's social phenomena. The subject of relocations, the subject of subcontracting..., the expansion of this subcontracting system, therefore, makes pimes and autonomes the main suppliers, so that the labor force is no longer concentrated, because concentrated gives more curse to the investor, more curse to the entrepreneur. Therefore, this speech of euphoria for autonomy and self-enterprise is not neutral. That's a previa. The second is that, in fact, the world of autonomies is a huge fan: from the entrepreneur who has people working at his job to the point where, in fact, with enough work, he expects to pay the quota of autonomous, because he does little. And, therefore, 'tax measures to promote self-government, so, in general, they run counter to the sense of fiscal progressivity. And it is for this reason that we think that all legislative action on autonomes should be accompanied by a study a little deeper than the impact of this variety, of the whole category of autonomes, and to know who are the priorities of the sector. And we have in our midst two areas in which to do so: we have approved, all groups, unanimously, the possibility of making a study commission on the autonomous, and, for another group, there will be the bill of the Catalan Law of Social Protection, right? – Yesterday we talked about a little, social protection, because what was created was the agency. We have proposed a point: that also on quotas to the Catalan social protection, it is discussed in this law, isn't it? , and we make an integral focus, therefore, of the contributions of the world of work – remain autonomous, remain salaried – to social security. That we can make this comprehensive approach and understand the economic impact that these aids have and the social impact – if they are truly positive. That is why the two measures between the young people talking about quotas and taxes will not count on our support; the rest, therefore, we see that these are good ideas that could begin to be implemented. And, finally, the other thought we made, we did it in the direction of clearing the wrong practice, the fraudulent practice of the form of self-government, that self-government that forces it to be. They are those who are known as "false autonomes," which, according to the Confederation of Autonomous Workers of Catalonia - UGT, is estimated to represent around 30_percent of the nine highs in the autonomes, which is not a small thing. A struggle that the bad tide of Movistar's workers put in the center of media, social and political attention, and thanks to this, therefore, after the Department of Work and the inspection of work they were able to go there at the back, and recently they have sanctioned, in a certain way from our point of view, the enterprises that make use of this form of false autonomy. This, in the phone field. And we, fifteen days ago, therefore, spoke in a way even more barroera to profit from this legal mark in a fraudulent way, in the form of false cooperatives in the meat sector, especially in the region of Osona, and in which there have also been two struggles – in the first case, therefore, the workers of Esfosa, and, then, in Le Porc Gourmet – those who have placed this problem of false cooperatives, of false autonomies. That's what we did, by the way. We believe that it has been accepted; we see it, therefore, uncertain. Obviously, we'll give it support. We believe that addressing the problem of autonomes without addressing the problem of false autonomes, therefore, was a failure.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.150.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. The words of Mr Pol Gibert, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.151.0	Thank you, President. Today the Citizens' Group is proposing to us a motion that addresses one of the problems we have on the issue of self-government and that this Parliament has not spoken to us at other times, also in committees. Some problems that have been addressed on other occasions by our group, such as the accompanying programs, funding lines or the struggle against false autonomies, which now quoted company Botran, also. So, a wide range of points of view in this room and with much reason to be, because, if we look at the data, the number of other autonomes has not stopped growing the last few months, and we find ourselves now with more than 550,000 autonomes in Catalonia. Therefore, many people will be affected by the measures that they can decide here. But this activity so intense that it develops this chamber has not been seen many times accompanied by the action of the Government. And it is that, when this government began to march, it was already criticized, the structure that it had among itself, for various collections, and it relegated the theme of autonomes to a very, very heterogeneous general direction. But that's just another paner's face, and we'll talk about it some other time. Entering the motion that Ciutadans presents today, we would generally like to evaluate some aspects and concretely some others. It's a young woman who deals with different fears, some in one environment, let's say, quite superficially, but it's true that she points to these in some themes that are important. On the first point, which speaks of the extension of aid to pay autonomous quotas by extending the flat rate that already exists in the state government..., our group will abstain, at this point, and it will do so because it may share the fund, but it does not share who has to do it. We believe that this extension of the term of the flat rate should be done by the Government of the State, and we believe that carrying more, even more, the finances of the Generality with a measure such as this would not be appropriate at this time. For what it does at points 2 and 3, our group presented papers to prioritize collections affected by these points, and the collections we believe to be priorities were three: young, long-term and older than forty-five years. We thought that if the young lady was looking to facilitate the generational replete, it was quite common sense that you incorporate young people, too; basically, because what we're looking for is that..., we sometimes have a lot of envelopes, and what we're looking for is to move this company into a much younger collection. It will not be possible, and we regret it; we think that it would have been a good point to join the movement. Similarly, we also believe that long-running stocks could be found in the fact of resuming another project or temporarily replacing an oxygen space in order to be able to hold a sum for a while; but it has not been possible, therefore, to include this collection. Still, we'll give you support. Why? Because we consider the essence of the proposal to be good, even though its content was better. For what it does to the rest of the points, we will support the better, as it cannot be in any other way, of programs such as the ‘Consolid't, the Enterprise Network or the Restart Network, which we have incorporated into a theme that has been accepted by our group. We also believe it is necessary to accompany the creation of entrepreneurs, and above all, to accompany their productive activity, not to let them die when they believe. And, moreover, it was said, on the proposing side, that the motion again asks – and I think it is the second time that they ask this Parliament – the constitution of the Catalan Council of Autonomous Work. We did it two months ago to the Labour Commission, if I don't recall it badly, and today we're going to insist on the government again. It seems that there are democratic mandates that cost more to complete than others, and that this does not carry any type of associated expense; let us hope that it does not go a third time so that it is achieved. And, lastly, and as it cannot be otherwise, thank the CUP for the effort it has made to increase job inspections – we think it is very timely – and to combat the use of false autonomies; follow the line of the proposal that we made a few days ago and that was approved by the Treball Commission. It's important, this point, because, as has been said before, 30 percent of the nine highs can be considered false autonomes, and it causes a commercialization of labor relations that only goes at the expense of workers' rights. Therefore, a very important point that has greatly improved the young man. Thank you very much, President, and thank you to the proposer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.152.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Gibert. Then there is the word Joan Ramon Casals, of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.153.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice President, Constellera Bassa, well, I, in principle, will begin by denying the major of what Laura has commented, that the autonomes, say, for this government are invisible. The other way around. I believe that, precisely, there are objective data that show this: the average of the entrepreneurial activity in Spain is 5.1_per_cent, and the average of the European Union is 6.9_per_cent; the Catalan is 7.5_per_cent. We are above all media, and therefore means that we are a country of entrepreneurial hope, but in any case, it has institutions at its side so that it is possible. And remind him, in any case, of the data: that, only in the last year, thanks to « Catalonia has been created more than four thousand enterprises. In any case, that's what we can talk about, because I think it's a clear show that we're actually also interested, from a point of view of parliamentary groups that we're in the government or we're defending the government..., that we've pushed together with all the groups – and I really appreciate the effort that their own group has made, also with Joan García – the study committee for self-employment and self-employment. I believe that there are parts to it that clearly show that we have to work together, because we understand from our point of view that there were proposals that they wanted to see a lot, too, with the focus on entrepreneurship, and they dealt with it from a point of view that was more autonomous or work, and that should be clarified. That said, why do we also propose this..., and is it opportune to talk about it in this study committee – and we won't talk about it today, in this young man? So, because there's a lot of fear that they're really interested in people who don't depend on the powers of the Catalonian Government, and that can't be denied that it's not true, because we're talking about what the problem is with pensions. We all know that self-employed people have a 40_percent less pension when it's jubilant than the workers, say, of the general rule, and, this, which has the competence to improve it is the Spanish State; that of paying the VAT when they have paid the bills, not before... On the subject of false self-employed people, also legislation has the Government of the State. So..., or things that we share all that we are in this room, but it seems that the Spanish State does not want to share, that is, for example, the autonomes that are in this room..., we say, that bill less than the minimum interprofessional wage does not pay the share of autonomes that we are talking about, and that is one of the points – the first point – of this young man. I, in any case, also, from this, from these differences – which I hope, as Albert Botran has said, that in the committee of study we can examine it much more there – also thank the effort that we have made among all, and especially with Citizens, to try to improve as much as possible the young person and to make a young person who can bring things in place for the entrepreneurs and the locals of our country. That's why we've done reviews on the line of improving the SOC, on the line of creating bosses to help search for autonomous substitutes. Also the subject of looking at the « Catalonia enterprise and « Consolidation'and, say..., have much more definition and support for these concrete collections to which they refer. Or, precisely, the lines of financing, which, both of the ICF and of other programs that are already being made by the Generalitat de Catalunya from the Department of Enterprise, may be more specific, in these collections, and especially in what it has to do with the generational replete, which is mainly from the Enterprise and from the Recompense program and has a very, very important success. We do, too. We say we ask for a separate vote from point 1, point 2.b and point 5. Point 5, which I wanted to refer to, is the constitution of the Catalan Autonomous Work Council. We know – and we have defended it here, very clearly, we – that for formal reasons we cannot do so now. In any case, we will abstain, because we do not want to refuse to do so, but it will be very difficult to do so. If there is the great difference between..., this movement between Junts for the Yes and Ciutadans – I think that some other groups have also said it, that they share it, now the Socialist Group has said it –..., this should be done by the State. What cannot be done is to ask us to increase an expenditure of 16 million euros..., it is not worth taking it from the department of Mr. Romeva, which does an excellent job to help companies and entrepreneurs in our country to be able to externalize and externalize and export, and this is basic for companies. But what can't be is that... I don't know if it's what they have that's for, power... like they're spending money on the Toledo Pact, on social security, they need to guarantee the state's social security receipts, because it's true that they're squandering money, and that all Catalans' pensions are at risk, and so are Spaniards' pensions. But also another reason: because not all..., or so on, the help that is to be done – we agree – for the entrepreneurs that start, that do not pay during the first year, is to be done for the entrepreneurs, not for all the autonomes; we would be improving or benefiting, power, false autonomes. It must be done to those entrepreneurs who pass through the accredited program for the enterprises of Xarxa Emprén, who are the ones who guarantee that they are effectively entrepreneurs who actually put their business into the market and are entrepreneurs who are entities like such, that they are the ones we understand that they are going to receive this bonus. But what needs to be done is the State. And, moreover, we do not agree, either, on the bonuses they propose, because even though we consider that, moreover, many cases of generational replenishment will benefit – we are talking in the case of capital transfers, because it does not produce, in most of these cases –..., moreover, it is very symbolic, and would end up feeling another problem: you ask that, from the Generality, the entrances of the State and empty the entrances of the Generality of Catalonia. We believe that this, with our country's financing system, is not what we deserve. What we deserve is precisely a government with the maximum resources to be able to help entrepreneurs and local people in our country. Last but not least, we are very grateful for the whole issue of false self-government, with the message made by the CUP – also, very much in agreement –; but, above all, thanks also to the work done by the Lower Councillor precisely in the case of Movistar, to prove that, indeed, the Government has done a lot of good work...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.154.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.155.0	...and it has it as a priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.156.0	Thank you, Mr. Couples. Next is the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.157.0	Well, thank you, President. Vice President, councillors, deputies, deputies, late afternoon. In her question, Mrs Vílchez refers to the difficult situation of self-employed workers compared to the rest of the workers and their working conditions, and has the whole reason for the world: a self-employed worker has much more difficulty in working, has much more difficulty in covering the disease, or thought of it, for example, and above all, what is worse, does not have the capacity to negotiate on his working conditions– head or one. But, of course, at the same time, she is pleased that the total number of self-employed workers has increased by 1.4 per cent in the past six months, led, this growth, especially for women. So, look, I don't know if I can congratulate us very much, because I am increasing the number of workers who know that they are comparatively the ones with the worst working conditions. I'm just saying, why... do we have to have more people working? And as long as it is. Now, do we have to boost this more precarious job? And as long as you don't. It's a reflection, huh? I suppose we have some difference in approach with regard to self-employment, because, for example, in your question of the other day, I said: "It's also self-employment when you have an entrepreneurial spirit. Home, « also, no: « above all. Therefore, we believe that the figure of the self-employed should be basically that of the employer who wants to develop a job independently and not on behalf of others, and that, in change, what is self-employed but is dependent, because it is necessary or necessary for business, it is more an anomaly of our labour system than an element to favor, but more quickly to try to transform into a situation of work dependence, stable and convenient. In other words, our work model to get out of the crisis is neither self-occupation nor the promotion of self-employment. Self-employed workers who decide to undertake a work-related project because they have ideas and are entrepreneurs, are naturally encouraged, and need to improve their skills to develop their projects, of course, and must have a much higher level of social protection than they now have; but what we cannot do is, by empowering self-employment, expand the strategy of outsourcing work based on self-exploitation of self-employed people who, as a matter of necessity, give up decent working conditions. I think we need to give serious thought to this issue, because there are studies that confirm that most of the more than half a million local people in our country are obliged to do so: 70 per cent say they are because they cannot be wage earners. Therefore, we do not convert an anomaly into the normality of our labor market, please. And a palpable proof of what I say is the voraciousness of big companies, which, not only do they derive labor from dependent self-employed people who have more or less minimal legal regulation, cheat on the law and convert what should be a wage-earning relationship into false dependent self-employed people, as we have been talking here. And it shows me the recently imposed penalty for the job inspection, and it shows me the scandalous situation of the Cannices d'Osona, or the Garrotxa, which, using precisely this figure, are submissive to its workers, frankly, to a situation that we could say is authentic labor slavery. We ask, in one of our papers, a plan to eradicate this practice and sanction the misuses of the dependent figure of self-government – I don't know if it's accepted or not, that I haven't seen it in the final result. For this reason, we cannot vote, frankly, the first point that you put in; basically why, according to what type of action we do under the appearance of help to the local people, what we end up doing is encouraging big companies to use this figure to precarise working conditions. Point 2, in change, seems correct and we will vote in favour, except, also, point 2.b – point 2.b –, because we think it should be a lot, we talked about it. For example, do you know that most of the great fortunes of the country cotitzen as autonomous? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, it's not demagogic, huh? Don't you think that if we make bonuses like this, we're opening the picket line? They're planting us. We'd have to study and put limits on any possible enhancement. Point 3, which initially did not understand very much what I wanted to say, with regard to replacements in case of casualties, as it remained in the transactions that have made us seem correct, harmless but correct, as well as the 4 and 5 points that we would vote for. We don't know what you'll do with the message that we've done to make a program to facilitate the replacement of self-employment and right-wing work. Through negotiation and with the impetus of public administration, we could end up turning into a more regular and fairer job that many people are doing because of business demands, if they want to work. In summary, therefore, we appreciate the acceptance of the draft – if you don't accept any, we don't know that – and ask for a separate vote from points 1 and 2.b, which could be voted together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.158.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Next is the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.159.0	Madam President... Honourable President, Vice-President of the Government, Councillors, warning that today'mva end all creativity [[relays]] And I'm gonna do something today... [[Greetings.]] Well, listen, some people understand that the driving force of our economy is the public sector and public initiative. And, actually, the public sector has to play an important role, huh? And we have to play a paper that's just the opposite – and I don't know, counselor, if we ever learn –..., that's to say, the opposite of what we usually do, which is: in the expansive times, also increase public spending, and then..., against the more basic common sense, right? And in the ages... then you have to do some detailing, and you don't get to do countercyclical policies, but... Therefore, there is a paper, the public sector, but for us it will never be the central axis of economic activity and growth, will it not? We think that it is the ones who leave their hair, the ones who play the money, the ones who raise the blind every morning that at the end – so, the small entrepreneurs, above all, the autonomies –..., the ones who have the pulse and the kingdoms of the economy, don't we? And what we need to do is precisely to facilitate its activity – to facilitate its activity – the opposite, for example, of what the Barcelona Assembly is doing. You, that I don't know if you have contact with the assembly, or Mr. Dante, that you are now tall and can talk to your company of the assembly..., escort, you are doing a clearly counter policy to the autonomous and small business, with your policy against the terraces of the bars. This morning they sent the police to search and remove the terraces from Boqueria; therefore, this is precisely the opposite of what is to be done. And what needs to be done is to create a brand, precisely, because the locals can work and sell and offer their services. And that's why the labor reform that you are the advance of the apocalypse..., so labor reform has also benefited the autonomes, because it has also allowed them to have more flexibility and adaptability, to peppers and autonomes. Because before we deduct, and we vote in favour of these deductions..., but before we deduct what the autonomes need is growth, it's economic, it's consumption, because it allows them to survive and grow. And we're doing our dues, and they're obvious, although you'd rather have a much darker picture and be able to say that with the PP it's all going badly; but no, things are going well, and to see if we pose and have a government once in a while. Therefore, more than this general growth mark, which is the area that allows life to the autonomous, we have also worked, from the Government of Spain, to take concrete measures that facilitate its activity. For example, the flat rate, which here is asked to extend to the autonomous level. It is asked, and someone said: "This must be done by the State. So, look, there are other autonomous communities... And the deputy of Junts said for the Yes: "No more sacrifices can be asked of the Generality. Listen to me, there are other autonomous communities, like Madrid, that according to you have a higher fiscal deficit, that are improving the autonomies for months more than the state law does. And so we can do it here too, because if they have money there, here we have it, too. From this flat rate, 715,000 autonomes benefited. We've also lowered taxes for the little one... and the autonomies that have lower entrance levels. We celebrate this text of Ciutadans, which we will vote in favour. It's a shame we didn't accept our papers, we think, because you're talking about especially vulnerable figures. We think that these types of vulnerability can expand a little. Not only do you say you need to work; there are other cases that require it intensively as well. We also seem uncertain about the items that have been introduced by Juntes for the Yes and the PSC, man, because to what they are going to say: « Listen, do we have any tools? Do we have any instruments? So, take advantage of them, strengthen them and muscle them. And for all this, we will vote for it, and we appreciate this young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.160.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Laura Vílchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.161.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, thank all the groups for the presentations, the willingness to agree. At Albert Botran, of the CUP, only..., we did not accept that first thought with a futuristic writing, because we find that we have enough to manage the present in order to get ourselves to manage future legal brands. To the PSC, to the Pol, who has to do it? Well, we ask, as Fernando said, to complement what the State already does, what is done in other communities and in other municipalities – Catalans, including – and is a model of success. Quotas and all that, we'll have time to talk to Congress. Together for the Yes, what I'm saying, which you deny, we'd be happy to discuss it with the committee we create. You know that this model, of point 1, of complementing quotas, succeeds in other ways, but, well, we will continue to deepen and work on the subject so that we can pull it forward. To Fernando, of the People's Party, thank him for his comments on these items that we did not want to accept, but not for nothing, just because they were directed..., these programs were directed to everyone, but we wanted to mark this preference in these two collections, which, as you have said, are particularly vulnerable. In Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, we believe that if it is strictly entrepreneurial as if it is to prove self-occupation, it is to give coverage; it is to the motu that follows, that one is autonomous, it is to give coverage. The bonus is concrete; the bonus, which you said was very generic, I think it is well said in the text that it is specifically for these transpatch operations. And re, we tried to trade everything we could because everyone could add up. And, well, we've always had the self-interests in mind, and I guess they must be waiting for us to have a little more attention. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.162.0	Thank you, Mrs. Vílchez. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Turull... [[Pause.]] [[Joan Ramon Casals and Mata ask to speak.]] Mr. Couples.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.163.0	Yes, just remember that we asked for a separate vote on point 1, 2.b and point 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.164.0	Yes, I've been asked to vote separately from point 1 and 2.b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.165.0	I of 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.166.0	Can they vote together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, [[Long break.]] A separate vote has been requested on points 1, 2.b and 5. We'll start by voting point 1, after 2.b, after 5 and after the rest of the vote. Okay? [[Pause.]] Let's vote, then, point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been rejected by 33 votes to 72, with 25 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 2.b. The vote begins. Point 2.b_has been rejected by 49 votes to 71, with 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 69 votes to 60. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on self-employment was approved by 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the child protection system]] [[302-00071/11]] The twenty-first item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on the system of protection for children, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. [[Widow's remorse.]] To expose her, has the word Ms Gemma Lienas. [[Pause. The remorse of the voice persists.]] Please, hurry up and be quiet; thank you. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.167.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies, I take the opportunity to greet the people who are accompanying us today. In a narrative, the point of view is the optical where the narrator stands to explain the story. Imagine a police novel where there is a murderer, an investigator and a murdered person: the story would be very different if we put the point of view on the investigator, on the assassination or – why not? – about the dead person. The point of view is also very different..., or the story is very different if the point of view is a narrator who participates in the story or is a narrator who does not participate in the story, but explains it to us from the outside. The point of view from which any novel, news, announcements is explained is basic to communicate an emotion or a concept, or sometimes the two things at the same time. I don't know if they remember Hitchcock's indiscreet window. There's a scene that's very good, it's a scene where the bride enters the house of what they suppose – she and her partner – that's murder. And he goes in thinking that the killer isn't there, but the killer goes in the house after she's gone in. And it's all explained from the company's optics, that you see it from a window and that it can't act, because it has a pinned bed, and so it can't move. This point of view can communicate a brutal anguish to the viewer. But not always the point of view is deliberate, but often, to the life of every day, we apply it by inertia. It is the point of view with which we are programmed to fail; it is the point of view that has instilled in us the culture in which we live, in our case, to make it easy and fast, patriarchy. So most people, whether they know it or not, are used to looking at the reality from this look. And why do I explain this to them? So, because it relates to our childhood protection system. I repeat what I said in the previous Ple: we do not intend to attack our professionals, nor just the Administration. We don't say that all the disempowerments are unjust, we don't say that; we say that some of them are unjust and that of others, those who are labeled with the label of negligence, we may be able to solve them, sometimes, without the need to remove the creatures from the house, if we can help the families more. What we are saying, therefore, is that we need to review the system, that we have a new point of view; a point of view that we must preserve the rights of the child, because one thing is to respect the rights of children and young people, and the other – very different – is to apply an adult perspective to their rights. They think the infants would apply the same point of view as the Administration, when they're gone? Sometimes I'm sure you don't. This is why we present a young man who touches three basic points: at the first we ask that the actions he is doing to determine whether a child is at risk are reviewed and applied with a point of view that, from one band, is rigorous and transparent, and that, on the other, is less restricted, that has less social class and less Western culture. It cannot be, for example, that a mental illness causes a disempowerment; what should be involved is more helpful to the family because the infant can stay in the family nucleus, and more helpful to the person who has the mental illness. It can't be that a stormy divorce led to a disempowerment of the creatures; it should lead to a mediation. According to the point: we ask for more resources and training for the EAIA. They have a very delicate job and must therefore have more tools. And, at the same time, the importance of its decisions, which sometimes involve a very important change in the lives of children and young people, require much more training and also the supervision of the Administration. The third is that we are asking for objective data which are regularly stored on the website of the department, so that we can have an objective look at the problems and, therefore, look for their solutions. Because, on the one hand, we need to know the number of creatures that are at risk, the motii, the measures that apply, and, on the other hand, we need to keep the data also of what happens to all these creatures when they are protected by the Administration, which results we do not get. Finally, if you have to summarize everything in one word, I would say that we need transparency because all parts understand what is done and why is done. And I don't want to end up without thanking the work done to the Socialist group and also to Ciutadans, because their discussions have improved the initial text. And also thank Junts for the Yes his willing negotiator, who has allowed many accords. MPs, MPs, it is now known that a centre is not the best place to educate a child, to give him the scalp he has right. And it is also known that the perfect family does not exist, and the risk zero for our infants, neither. What families need, and especially infants and young people, is help when they find themselves in a difficult situation. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.168.0	Thank you, Mrs. Lienas. In order to defend the papers presented, Ms. Elisabeth Valencia, of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.169.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all, Members, Members, Councillors. No stage is more intense, beautiful and vulnerable than our childhood; our first experiences will mark the direction of our lives. For this reason we are grateful that the need to review the child protection system we have in Catalonia will be put on the table again. We have tabled amendments to the motion with the will to add, to prioritize in children's policies, reviewing the parts of the protection system that can be improved. We thank Catalonia from here Yes, it is Pot's will to reach agreement on this motion. We want the goal of protecting the rights of children and making children at the centre of public policy to be a reality. Where there is a possible violation of the rights of minors, the EAIA teams decide on the protective measure to be applied and intervene in the event of helplessness. As for the intervention of these teams, we advocate that it be as humane as possible to guarantee the emotional stability of the child and his family. We want to thank from here professionals who work day by day with minors. We are aware that they work with insufficient resources, lack of supervision, and are sometimes oversaturated. These teams have a great responsibility: the protection of the rights of minors, and they must put forward a plan to improve families if there is a lack of support so that they can recover the custody and custody of their children as soon as possible. With regard to the family improvement plan, there is a need for follow-up of family visits. Visits should be notified and assessed to determine whether or not risk factors disappear, because the importance of each case is vital. And, in order to unify performance criteria that facilitate the work of professionals, it is very necessary to have a performance protocol that is clear and more complete than the current guides. We already have an intervention protocol in the case of violation of rights that includes the educational sphere, but we need a protocol that we can use in all cases and for all environments; a protocol that includes history, family history, number of interviews; a protocol that counts on the opinion of the child. It is important that as soon as difficulties are detected in families, whether economic or otherwise, which pose a risk to the rights of minors, the Administration is to support them and be on their side, and please do not turn your back on them. Families, when they are having a bad time, need more help; we need more investment in prevention so that these cases do not occur. As for the advisories' announcements about the signatures of the contract program announced by this government recently, it would be an investment for EAIA teams, but the big question we have is: "How long? This government has set the date for the fulfillment of this program contract until 2019; does this government know where it will be in a few months? We don't think he knows. Look, this government is the government of "come back tomorrow, for social policies... but we are in a hurry for independence. Let's get down to reality. This president will be subject to a question of confidence this September, and this government has neither the support nor the approval of the budget. If the amendment they have tabled since Junts pel Yes by committing to staffing in 2017 is fulfilled just as the approval of the budget, Madam Councillor, we are clear. You present a budget in which not a single euro is allocated for independence and you spend that money on social policies: you will see how things change. Minors, their families and professionals need a government that goes beyond photos and ads. They need government actions, realities, and, if they're not going to do it, let go: we're ready, and as soon as we can, we'll do it. With regard to the improvement plan announced by DGAIA, we need specific dates for implementation. The previous plan has expired nothing more and nothing less than for two years. Finally, I will tell you that the protection system needs to be reviewed. Political will and investment are necessary for this. Count on us to work together to make Catalonia more prosperous and have more social justice. For independence plans, don't call us; for social improvements, yes. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.170.0	Thank you, Mrs. Valencia. Next comes the word Gabriela Serra, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.171.0	Thank you, President. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. Thank you, President. Mrs Lienas, you must have forgotten about me, about us, about the CUP - Constituent Creed, because I have come back from word because we have made papers and because you have accepted papers from us, and it seems that we have not presented papers, nor have they been useful, nor have they improved the text. Well, I guess we're all very exhausted, very nervous and needing a vacation. Don't hit him anymore, Coscubiela, that's not the point. [[Rialles.]] We're leaving... [[Rialles and some applause.]] This is not done with anyone – with no one – and with a company either. We start from the basis that our system of child protection is deeply fragile, all that we start from a well designed model but insufficiently equipped at all levels, and above all for what it does at the most preventive level, that they are those that correspond to the basic services of social assistance, that they are at hours of absolute collapsing and without giving answer. Likewise, we are concerned – it is worrying – about the saturation of specialized care levels, where we find shortcomings of all kinds, and it is worth saying that one of the most important problems for this special attention, too, in the fact that this system, while well designed, has a great deal of outsourcing of services – outsourcing of services that is a legacy of the political guidelines of the Democratic Union for all the years that it has been in the hands of the Social and Family Council, and that, unfortunately, it has never been reviewed or reoriented –; as we are concerned about the failure of professional relations to the EAIA, that it has been incorporated into the motion of the Social and Family Council, and that, unfortunately, it has not been reviewed or reoriented – as it is clearly concerned about the lack of professional skills in the practice of the Institute, that it has been incorporated into the Ministry of Social Affairs and Family. Now, perhaps they are less known, but not less important, the shortcomings that exist in the support devices for infants found in the protection circuit. And, in this sense, it is worth highlighting the lack of staff, for example, for such a basic thing as the physical follow-up of infants to the visiting area with families, that they are usually spaced from seeing the child or the child; as the lack of facilities to ensure immediate protection when required; or as the late payment of benefits for the subject right – Things –, which are the benefits to extended foster families and the benefits to extute young people. All these shortcomings and shortcomings cause major malfunctions between the system, and col·lapse: we must say that we have a col·lapsed system. I must point out – the previous one said – that if this system works today, we must say clearly, it works substantially for the dedication, for the interest of the professional people who are there; professional people who are highly compromised and who are often, too much often, working over their possibilities. We find cases of little attention; we find cases of redundancy; we find cases, at least, of some pro-professional attitudes, but we have to bear in mind that... we only need to study the levels of job losses and instability of professionals in the sector precisely on the grounds of exhaustion, extremes; therefore, some levels that do not respond to the professional level required by the most vulnerable creatures. It may take account of these professions, it may take account of their rights, it may take account of the conditions on which they are working. But, in this scene, we also understand that there are measures that would be urgently needed to implement – it was also said –: to provide care resources for infants and their families to ensure the full development of infants in the family themselves, before they are separated; to complement the professional routes – also introduced to the presentations that have been presented –; to review and update the EAIA background document – it is 2008 – and to guarantee a system of financing these teams that incorporates the technical direction of leadership, support, supervision, etc. And of extreme urgency: to reduce the waiting time between the proposal and the assignment of a plaza, centre or foster family; to resolve the situation of foster children and adolescents living in centres not suitable for their needs; to effectively address the needs of foster children and adolescents with severe behavioural and emotional disorders. So, I want to review – and with this end of the story – the cost of a child's or a teenager's state in a residential center. Currently it is over-donation..., mass differences between the cost in a public center, in a private center or in a competition center. You are afraid that we will have to have a lot of presence, because they affect not only the quality of the service, but also the quality of the working conditions of the workers. And, lastly – and with this I finish, I leave things to myself, but... – Mrs. Lienas, I would like this topic to be no more than a theme for the paper industry. We have talked about this many times; I think that the Committee on Children must not set up a follow-up committee. We must try that this issue is not the three-hundred-four, that remains in a paper and that remains in a very nice vote, but that does not throw any more there. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.172.0	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs Serra. The words of Mr Raúl Moreno of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.173.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, councillors and vice-presidents, the issue before us today is not easy, both because of its breadth – and because of its complexity. Catalonia counts, I believe, with a system of protection from childhood and adolescence that is good, good in general; we have the resources, we have the circuits, the professionals that make it possible that when a child or a young person finds himself in a situation of unemployment, so I can have access to a series of resources and a series of itineraries that allow him to develop his life in conditions that are right. Go ahead, too, that we consider the workers and workers of DGAIA to be great professionals, the whole team of EAIAs also, to the territories, which often have to make very complicated decisions. And decisions that are based, at the end of all an appeal, on decreeing the disempowerment of a family of their child, and, therefore, it is one of the possibly toughest decisions they have to make. And it is for this reason that we celebrate the Movement of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. We believe that unemployment must be the last, and, in fact, it is the last of the decisions to be taken; it is the most traumatic for the family, but also, above all, for the child. We are like the education we receive, from our family, and when it is detected a situation of maltreatment, abuse or lack of care of the family towards the children, when it is detected and, therefore, is believed, therefore, it is to be done quickly. But it will have to coincide with me that each of the errors that are produced – that are few, but that is produced – is the breaking of the family nucleus, with very hard psychological consequences for the child but also for the couple, that they see as the Administration – and not a judge – make the decision to separate them from their child, when they call them to a meeting, without being able to reconcile themselves, and with difficult difficulties to defend themselves from accusations. Therefore, defending families in these cases of error is also protecting the minor before a decision taken badly by the Administration. Socialist views go in two lines: the first, to increase the possibilities of families before decisions that may be considered unfair; and to ensure that the children and young guardians of DGAIA do not lose the rights they have as citizens. To give effect to the first of the lines, therefore, we consider that it is necessary to ensure that, if there are withdrawals of custody due to the lack of economic resources, it is incorporated..., or reinforced – because in this case it already exists – what is said by Cose, Mrs. Vilella, what some in the individual action plan – many times has different names, right? – and, therefore, that the families that are in this situation collect resources from the Administration in order to try to stop having lack of resources, and, therefore, to be able to recover the guardianship. And that's already in place. We also celebrate that there is also the possibility, whenever possible, of concocting with the minor – of concocting 'n'–, a fact that is not always produced at the moment and that denotes a certain lack of sensitivity in some cases – I insist, in what it is possible, because sometimes it cannot be done – of the current processes. That, before a withdrawal of the minor from his family, the EAIA or the DGAIA provides the family with an intelligible and enlightening document where all existing lives are exposed, both in the administered as in the court, to which the family can appeal both to exercise its defence and to the recovery of the minor; also access to all documentation referring to his case to ensure the possibility of defence before a court. We ask – and it seems that Together for the Yes it is unclear, for the conversations that we have had – that the families that wish to do so can accompany a lawyer or a lawyer to the meetings of the DGAIA. So, then I try... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Does it look like it does in the end? [[Pause.]] Fantastic. He went on to say, "Please explain, why not, why didn't you just hear it, right? Thirdly, we urge the Government to take all necessary steps in the administration of justice in order to speed up the judgments that may exist in cases of unemployment. They know the jurisdictional limitations we have for this fact, and I think that, in the end, the deal that has been made unites the will of all political parties to find the best solution to try to make the Administration of Justice in these cases much faster than it is today. I'm done. I want to focus, on these forty-seconds of us, on one of the proposals that have not been accepted and that you have to see with a question that goes directly to the children's rights, and that is not found in this motion at these times. When a young person or foster child ceases to be fostered..., when a young person ceases to be fostered, in fact, an economic benefit of around four hundred and fifty euros for a while, eh? Why can't you go on with your life, huh? What's it like, finance? There is an important part that poses the same government, but it is also finance through orphanage pensions, which are of the same children. And we, and the Synod of Greuges, also asked that, as a personal thought of each of these children, in any case, we should not return them when they leave, but what we cannot do is give the same services to all the children and that some have contributed to their thought and others have not done so. Therefore, it is a system that is not just, in its financing. We have to look at this; it could not be possible. We have already announced that we will do so as a motion for a resolution to the social welfare committee. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.174.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. The words of Ms. Montserrat Vilella, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.175.0	Well, thank you, President. Consellera..., conselleres – vaja –, deputies and deputies, good late. The truth is that today, therefore, it is good to be able to get to this young man, especially for whom he has surprised us, of change of heart, respect the question that motivated this same young man. Because, from our point of view, we found it hard, we found it unfortunate, because it put the most point of view in the professionals and in the action they do, and we understood that this did not help to make it possible to do better and that we could gather it in this sense. I say that we were not happy, because then, to see the text of the motion, and also to be able to mingle, trade and talk during these last few days, so we saw that the will was not this, not much less – that of Mrs. Lienas and her group, and also of the rest. All we want is to have a good child protection system, and that, so, we're glad, because it's really a delicate issue and a vital issue for any society that's taken over. What are we talking about? So, we're talking about children, that they have rights; that we have to guarantee all the rights of children and of some couples – basically, biological couples, but also other formulas that can be given – and, in any case, of those people who have to guarantee these rights, who have rights and have rights. And why am I saying that? Because when we talk about childhood – and today we can see, in the presentations of the defense of this young man – there are many fears, but today, in this young man, we talk about this, about when a childhood team has to decide whether to make a decision because they see violations of the rights of the child respecting the rights of the parents. We're talking about this, I understand. And, to talk about that, we also need to see that if parents don't guarantee these rights, they have to do the Administration. And the Administration can do it in different ways, but there are also different cases. There are those very difficult cases, in which we all agree that there must be a withdrawal – we can talk about the case of the Dawn –, and here too it is very difficult for there to be a mistake, and we can set the example that Mrs. Lienas set the other day, but we do not have to sweep it. And we don't have to deal with the other case, which also exposed Mrs. Lienas, who are those situations where there is a lack of attention that, as hard as it is, can reach a neglect. I can give them an example: a swim to whom they gave the bottle with little water, so little respect to what they put on the dick that caused dehydration, and that made me suffer from a severe, irreversible deep deficiency. Therefore, what we need to take very much into account when we talk about the system is to ensure that we do not make these mistakes about what we are talking about before, about the children who were hospitalized and there was no reason to be, we need to keep very much in mind that there is only one thing worse that can happen to a minor, that is... apart from being mistreated, only one, and that is that, more than being mistreated, there is no one at the cost to defend him because this is not repeated and to go through this situation. And this someone sure as hell has to be the child and team protection service. And these teams must be able to keep the diagnostic tools, they must be able to have the ability to make a decision and to make a proposal to the Administration, and this Administration must be brave and be able to make decisions, because, if not, this child will not defend him or her, and he will repeat himself. It is obvious that doing the job badly to the protection system can also cause violations of rights – it is obvious. And so, it's okay that we make this young man, it's okay that we all hang around, that we put the point of view at each of the possibilities that the system has, wrongly, to avoid mistakes. But we don't sweep, because if we really sweep what we're doing is causing a situation of defencelessness in the professional themselves. And what we have to do is defend them so that they can do their job well; we have to take them, we have to swallow them and we have to give them enough. With these points that we approve of in this young man, we understand that this is it. Let's calm down the groups who think that this could be a young man who's not going to end up. If we've talked about it, if we've made efforts to get a consensus text, it's because we want it to be approved here. Also, since the government, many efforts have been made to set aside the entire deployment of the 2010 Children's Law. This law already provides for many situations, it already provides for many help to families, and above all for positive parenting, which is one of the days that we have a lot of recourse in this country and that, moreover, we should do it among all of them. Therefore, we have a good system of protection for childhood, we do it among all and we endorse the people who are at the forefront, who are giving the face, who are giving the responsibility to give an answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.176.0	Congresswoman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.177.0	Yes, thank you. We'd leave it here. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.178.0	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mrs. Villa. The words of Ms. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.179.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, advisers, Members, Members, well, the question, together with the motion, which we will be voting on today's system of child protection, presented by Mrs Lienas, we understand that it is partly the result of the opacity, the lack of transparency of DGAIA and the childhood and adolescence teams that have emerged from Catalonia. Before this situation, different mechanisms are put in place, through this motion, to ensure that the performance of the department, and concretely through the different attention teams, therefore, be clear and transparent, and that it is carried out objectively and rigorously, with reliable and different data. In the framework of the Law of Rights and Opportunities of Childhood and Adolescence, the Administration – that is, this Government – must provide the protection and assistance necessary to families so that they can fully assume their responsibilities. Therefore, and in the first place, before a disengagement takes place, before a child is separated from his family by the DGAIA, all mechanisms must be put in place, every effort must be made, because the infants can continue living with their parents, guardians, direct relatives, etc. I think we all agree that, to the economic expense band that supposes to keep a child in a guardianship center – it is to say, to the band that the government can get away from – what really matters is that all possible mechanisms are activated so that the youngest children and young people continue in their usual march, their propo de conviviality, which is not another one that they own to read. It's true that this is the theory, that on many occasions it won't be hard to practice because there are very complicated situations that make it impossible for a minor to live or continue living in an appropriate family environment. We are aware, but we have also been able to detect a certain discomfort of some families that is complaining of the withdrawal of their children without there being a movement of feet, a movement powerful enough to involve the detachment of a child. We also understand that before uncertainty, and taking into account the responsibility of the Administration, it is logical that you do not manage to leave it in a family environment that may be unfavourable, but you cannot abuse it. And that is why, as Mrs Lienas proposes, we need to review the system we currently have, because something is failing. It is also important to take a firm approach to how these processes are going to end: the time, the time it takes to assess the situation. And, look, the other day they were explaining to me..., of a child who was in a center a few months ago and who was a very young woman -- younger than you, Mrs. Lienas, and that's what I'm saying, huh? –, [[remorse of the voice]] if she would end her home, but there was no way – there was no way. Surely he could not see the child; only a few hours a month, could he not? I think it finally worked out, this subject. [[the remorse of the voice persists]] But it took a while...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.180.0	Quiet, and please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.181.0	... it took a while, and for a creature, so that's very painful, and for the family no longer needs to say it. Another important question and that the motion deals with: what can families do before a suspicion of unwarranted unemployment? What can they do? Therefore, only – only – can the decision of the DGAIA on a disempowerment through the judicial process be revoked, a procedure that not all families can initiate due to lack of tools. In the cases in which this happens, the court has once ruled the nullity of that disempowerment and has shown that the Administration had rushed at the time of making the decision, which proves that it is not all right. I repeat, therefore, I need to review the system. For this reason, from the People's Party we will support the different points of this motion that do not entail an economic expense for the Government, and that, if they actually pull forward, they can help a lot, a lot, both the infants and the families that can keep their children, because in any case we can allow the lack of food or stuff to follow a motion of unemployment. Another issue is that parents have addictions or maltreatment problems, but for this reason, it can examine each case thoroughly and that the decision does not only fall into a few departmental technicians, but in professionals – in professionals. There's been a lot of talk here about them, and obviously they're doing a great job, right? And that they really are the ones who have to study, in an integral way, the different problems. Therefore, Mrs. Lienas, totally agree to open and open windows in relation to the process of unemployment and data through which you propose to us – and the rest of parliamentary groups –: an action protocol because EAIAs make it useful to make the synthesis objective, the presentation of more reports and a work plan to be able to evaluate with more objectivity, the advertising of data, etc. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.182.0	Thank you, Mrs. Xandri. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms Gemma Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.183.0	Thank you, President. Look, I, to prepare an inquiry..., I don't know how you do it, but I do it the same as when I prepare an article or prepare a novel: I think of a thread, I think of a point of view – that of the inquiries doesn't really have any secret, because it's my point of view or that of my group – and I think a lot about it, like when I write a novel or an article. I wanted to make a non-aggressive and conciliatory inquiry; in fact, I already told my first intervention, didn't I? , in this hemicicle, that I would try to have a constructive attitude, to cooperate and find solutions, more than to confront. Surprisingly, while most groups – I have been asking – interpreted my inquiry as I had prepared it, Junts for the Yes interpreted it as very aggressive, as Congresswoman Vilella said. I shouldn't be surprised. I shouldn't be surprised, why? Because, when I write a novel, not everyone interprets it just like I wanted to write it, because people have our references, we have our expectations. And, of course, Junts' expectations for the Yes were not the same as ours; therefore, they made a different interpretation of it. But it is true that I would want to make it clear that the sender, who was me, did so willingly for collaboration and not aggression. For what you do to the CUP, I ask you to forgive me, honourable Member, and all the deputies, for having made me unhappily. I know it hard, because, besides, Gabriela Serra and I have a very good relationship and we have been able to work a lot throughout the legislature, and very well. But the last few days – I have to tell you frankly – I thought Gabriela no longer valued me, because I was a long way behind her, but she didn't care about me, people. [[Widow's remorse.]] And, in the end, in truth – in truth – I think I was very concerned about another issue. I get it, I get it. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] I get it. What I'm saying is that the CUP has submitted papers, but we haven't been able to work on them, and maybe that's why I forgot. I feel it – I feel it. I agree with you and also with the City that we have great professionals who work, I say, over their possibilities, and that they have more skills. I totally agree with all the points made to us by the Socialist Party, which have been very interesting, and, more importantly, you have guaranteed, because I think, Mrs Vilella, that our professionals must be able to work with guarantees, but our families must also be able to have guarantees.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.184.0	Mrs. Lienas, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.185.0	I'm done. I want to thank them for all the ideas they have presented to me and for the willingness they have had to cooperate. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.186.0	Thank you, Mrs. Lienas. Since no separate vote has been asked, we are going to vote on the joint motion. The vote begins. The Movement on the Child Protection System [[applause]] has been approved by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the future Catalan public bank and the Catalan Institute of Finance]] [[302-00069/11]] The twenty-one point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the future Catalan public bank and the Catalan Institute of Finance, presented for the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. To expose it, the word "Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.187.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Two weeks ago we started a debate... that we thought it was late, that we should have started it a long time ago, that since the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Alternative of the Left last legislature we tried to start, that in a way three years ago we left a little in the middle, but we didn't get to the point that we think we have to come, that it's the general public bank. Now we're back at the same point, and somehow we seem to be back at exactly where we stayed 2013; but, well, we can say we're moving a little bit. If I say that there is anyone who recognizes the positive role played by the public banks of various countries during the financial crisis to maintain the flow of credit partially offsetting the reduction of the credit offered by private banks or I see the evidence of the countercyclical role played by various public banks during the crisis, I will not be talking about public banks– and I am already advancing, in case –..., public banks come, nor making Bolshevik statements, but I will be referring to a report by the World Bank of the year 2015. So, as far as counter-revolutionaries are concerned, more than anything else, one we have never been sure of what it was supposed to be when it was created. So that the public bank has a sense, a utility, and, above all, it's necessary to guarantee a few minimums, it's something that everyone recognizes. And, therefore, it is a shame that we are here again only staying with the Catalan Institute of Finance as something that has to become a public bank of investment, because, despite acting as such or acting as such, we cannot forget that it is not. And no, the CUP - Creed Constituent is neither legalistic nor has now become, one day for the other – and never better said – a guarantor of those laws that do not defend the interests of the popular classes, but precisely because of this we speak and say things with propriety. If we share all that the crisis is fueled by..., because the financial entities did not speak clearly, the financial entities cheated, used language that was not correct, used expressions that were not the corresponding ones, what we cannot do is tell the Catalan Institute of Finance that it is the public bank of Catalan investment. Now, what are we working on? Yeah. What do we have to keep working and empowering her? Also. But we also need to start clearly enhancing an economic model that is not the same as the one that brought us to the world-wide situation – and that we are still living now – in 2007 and 2008. It is, therefore, to enhance a different economic model, and, therefore, to empower the social and solidary economy. And yes, the Catalan Institute of Finance has increased the investment in social and solidary economy: of 307_million euros that it gives in credits, 18_million euros are for social and solidary economy. Obviously, the economic volume of the social and solidary economy is what it is, and it's very little at home, but if we want to boost a different economy, it means that in the reversal and in the belief we also need to boost this. And, therefore, that's why we have planted and planted – then I can even expand it further, but... – that I can continue to work because the Catalan Institute of Finance really is a public bank of reversal, but it also clearly opens up to this economic model, this social and solidary economy, emerging in our home, taking into account the person, putting the person in the center and empowering an absolutely different model. And that's why it was also important for us to talk about general public banking with a view to ethical banking and respecting the principles of ethical banking, and that's why there's a point to the young man where he's talking about promoting these principles. And because everyone has them clear before they vote and then they don't come surprised, we remember who they are, because promoting these principles means promoting an economic model that is absolutely different from what we live in. We talk about ethics applied in all actions, we talk about participation, we talk about coherence, we talk about transparency and we talk about implication. Let's talk about saying, "Here we are investing in it. Let us forget to say: "Here we do not reverse it. We are already clear that in the arms industry, which is where many of the financial entities of the Spanish State invest, and Catalans also do not want to invest. What we say is: "Here, yes. Therefore, we want to invest in an economic model and a business model and a completely different economic model. And these five principles are those that govern ethical banking, ethical banking and cooperative banking, and that's what we want to promote. As time runs out, I will not speak any more; then, already in the answer, I will try to advance a little more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.188.0	Thank you, Mrs. Regant. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.189.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, vice president. Well, so, today, the CUP presents us with a motion from the public bank. If I don't remember correctly, it seems to me that in the present legislature he also presented one, which we also approved, in certain points determined; we also gave support strength. They also give support to this one. Now, in any case, I'll explain those points on which we haven't just agreed, but we've also defended a public bank. A very investment-oriented public bank, which is for a different product model, which is for a new economic development model, activities based on knowledge, innovation, research; it is to say that, from the public bank, we can also mark the line of a new economic model that we believe must also generate stable jobs, much more solid, and, therefore, an economy that has another fall than what it has at these times. Therefore, we have always been in favour of this type of public banking, if we are talking about this: very directed to investments, very aimed at strengthening a particular product model. And, therefore, in this sense and in this line, so we would always agree, as it cannot be in any other way. With the principles that Congresswoman Regant gave, right? : the ethical bank, the principles linked to participation, transparency, involvement, democratic control... I think this is important, and it is, therefore, exactly what we will support. Now, there are some elements that have served to make statements... that some have not accepted and that we do not share. We do not share that this public bank has to manage passu, that is to say, that, in some way, I invested according to the standards that the Catalans and the Catalans put on this bank. They don't know that there's a model in any country, say, that I have or that I'm from this base. We don't share that. We believe that there may be other ways of financing this bank, with these criteria of ethical banking and with the principles we have commented on, but that it manages the pass and that the pass is used to make these investments..., we are not the model we share, and we have not just heard what it is based on, also, which model it is based on, therefore, to make this proposal. The other thing we've done, that we don't share... is the connection to the Sareb. He asks, the CUP, that all the immobile benefits that the Sareb has in Catalonia become managed from the public bank. Then we don't agree to this either. We think that maybe everyone wouldn't be hot, and what we asked for in this topic is that we study these immobile goods and see who they might be susceptible to being run from the public bank, but we don't think that they're all appropriate, maybe, to manage themselves there, right? And, therefore, in this sense we have made a statement, which was not accepted. I suppose these two points are the ones we have the discrepancy with the UPC, but the rest of the points are the truth that we will vote for them. There's been a lot of compromise, that's true. In this sense, I also want to thank the Member of Parliament for being flexible, supposing, and also for trying to approve as many points as possible. As she said: "Almenys move forward, don't you? Many times the important thing is to move forward, because if you tanks in your position you can't get anything. I think, with this young man, we'll move forward in a few points. It seems to me that we are creating this group of jobs in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to take a certain step forward in the creation of this bank, because they do not depend on us, nor on the Government of the Generality, is it true; they also depend on the Bank of Spain and on how the institutions, therefore, favour this step forward, right? We will therefore vote in favour of almost the whole motion. Only in these two points can we not agree. And, therefore, let us hope that if the rest of the groups also support it, we can advance a little further, because it is true that it would be important and would also be an opportunity for the ability to intervene, invest and advance in investment in companies, cooperatives, in projects of citizens that mark a new economic model, a different product model, based more on knowledge, in stable jobs, and therefore mark a future a little more hopeful than we have at these times. So much good can be done as soon as possible. I don't know if it'll be in the five-month period that the judge said, but in any case, the government can work on it, and that in this commission or in this working group we can also report on how the work is progressing. Therefore, this is the position of the PSC. Let's wait... what the other groups are doing to see what, finally, we can approve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.190.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. The words of Mr Oriol Amat, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.191.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Vice-President, Members, Members, this CUP motion is a motion on the Catalan Institute of Finance, on public banking, on ethical and cooperative banking. Therefore, it is a young man who refers, therefore, to the system of financing, to a very important part of the system of financing, and the system of financing is a basic part of the economic system. How did Congresswoman Reguant make reference to the economic model, a comment expected would be that our focus, with what we have taken over this young man, in which we accept three of the points of the motion and not two – the two that have not, I am already advanced, are the same that Congressman Alicia Romero commented –..., so, then, our focus, with what we have taken over this young man, is: we understand the economic system as an economic system based on a powerful market economy, huh? This market economy includes, of course, the social and cooperative economy, a market economy with good values, with good value system, and, therefore, with ethics, CSR. Then..., a market economy that needs to be combined with good regulation, not so much if it's more or less regulation, but good regulation – the last decades have done a lot of regulation, and it's usually been bad regulation, huh? – enough taxes to allow a solid, well-managed public sector and a welfare state, so..., which we deserve, and which guarantees equal opportunities. So, when we say yes to a part of the young lady and not to a part, you have to see with this philosophy of how we understand the economic model. Point 1 of the motion on the Catalan Institute of Finance..., we understand that the questions proposed are already due to the end. It includes a measure that we believe is positive, that the ICF integrates in its bodies people with sensitivity and knowledge in the field of social and cooperative economy. We think this is a good measure, and that's why we made a replacement that has adapted the wording, that has been improved with the input of the PSC, and the CUP has proposed a deal, which we accept, huh? Point 2 is about public banking of generalist type. We think point 2 is contradictory, that's point 3. Point 3 is that we have accepted it, and we have also made a proposal for a replacement, which has been accepted. We believe that points 2 and 3 are contradictory: if in one we ask the ICF and the Government of the Generality to push a public banking project, we believe that this is contradictory with asking them, for another band, to create a working group on public banking; it is either one thing or the other. At this point, what we think can help, and can help move forward, and move forward in the right direction – because not only is the important thing to move forward, but to move forward in the right direction – is to push forward, in the Parliament of Catalonia, in the Economic and Historical Committee, so a working group on public banking, huh? We are pleased that the UPC has accepted our request, and that is why we will vote in favour of it. The fifth point, about the Sareb, has already been very well commented by Congresswoman Alicia, and, therefore, would be the same. We have proposed a replacement that would have allowed us to move forward in a good direction, which is what is being done at these times, what the Government of the Generality is doing, to sign agree with the Sareb for the cessation of habitats destined for social purpose. Today, the Sareb and the Government of Catalonia have signed agreements for the cessation of nine hundred habitations, and this is the highest amount of disposals that the Sareb has made with any other administration. We thought the thought we proposed was going on this line, and we would have helped a lot of families and a lot of people. Well, the bottom line is the promotion of the ethical and cooperative bank. At the international level – the comment I will make is not at the Spanish level, let's say it, or català – the credit institutions had very negative value systems during the bubble, and their practical ills contributed decisively to the global financial crisis, huh? The Grayling report, referring to the Spanish State, says that 76_percent of customers do not trust the bank. Well, today, also at the international level, credit institutions return to poor value, return to serious ethical issues. They're still marketing products that customers don't understand, and what they still don't understand is that they're marketing products that they don't understand, because the human brain isn't ready to hear them, huh? They are entities, at the international level, with earnings ranging from one to four hundred times, five hundred times, a thousand times. Therefore, we have a financial system that has important problems. That's why we think it's appropriate to promote ethical banking and cooperatives: they don't finance bad businesses – weapons, tobacco – they have new wages, they have less volatility... Therefore, for all this we believe that it is very good to promote the ethical and cooperative bank. That's why we share this point of the motion and vote for it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.192.0	Thank you, Mr. Amat. The words of Mr. Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.193.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Vice-President, Councillor for Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Widow's remorse.]] I believe that they have submitted a motion to us, but that they are not clear what they want the Català Institute of Finance to be; no. It seems that all they want is for it to be public, because for you that is a totem, it is, well, a dogma; but it is already a public financial entity. So, really, I want to highlight and analyze the motion a little bit. In the first point we are drawn by a public investment bank, and in the second we are drawn by a generalist bank, a commercial bank that collects and manages citizens' deposits. Perhaps they do not know that countries generally require special licences for investment banks, and do not allow them to operate simultaneously as commercial banks, i.e. by collecting deposits. Perhaps they do not know that the special licensing requirements and the necessary separation of investment banks and commercial banks are intended to protect the small saver from the risks involved in investment banks. Please allow the Catalan Institute of Finance to remain the public financial institution that it already is, and to continue to complete the private financial sector by promoting and facilitating access to finance to the Catalan business fabric in order to contribute precisely to the growth of the Catalan economy, and precisely to fulfil a role that I believe is important, very important, of the Catalan Institute of Finance, and that is to correct the lack of financing that, in times of crisis, is known to occur in private banking. Private banking has that market failure, and that can be corrected by the Institut Català de Financiers, but we don't need any more public banking. By the way, asking the Català Institute of Finance to finance companies and cooperatives is unaware that it already does. The Catalan Institute of Finance funds entrepreneurs, self-employed, micro-enterprises, SMEs and large enterprises; of course, also social economy and cooperative enterprises. I just don't know if they don't know what the Català Institute of Finance is... Members of Parliament, the churro de moción culminates in a fifth point which seeks to require the Spanish Government to transfer all the real estate currently owned by the Sareb ; of all, not only those located in Catalonia. Faced with my perplexity, I have read the point several times, and there is no doubt: the Government of Spain is required to transfer all the real estate from Sareb to the Catalan public bank, even if they are in Murcia or La Coruña. [[Widow's remorse.]] The motion gives no more of itself, so let me conclude by telling you what we understand..., what is our view on this issue of the public and the private, or public banking and private banking. Look, for Citizens, neither Catalonia nor the rest of Spain need more public banking; nor do they need more general banking, since the banking sector is huge – it is huge. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, look, it reaches 300_per_cent of GDP, while in the United States it is 100_per_cent of GDP, i.e. less public and private banking. I think we're already oversized. Look, what we do need is better regulation, huh? better regulation of private banking and greater weight of alternative financial institutions such as more venture capital, capital markets and institutional investments. What we need is for the bank to proceed to a good allocation of credit and investments that measure the risk – which, after all, is counting on the money of all of us – and of course – of course – to proceed to the liquidation of those private banks that do it wrong. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.194.0	Thank you, Mr. Spiny. Next, there is the words of Ms.Jessica Albiach, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.195.0	Good afternoon. To see, we defend that, as a citizen, we deserve to have economic sovereignty; economic sovereignty in order not to depend on speculators and private interests, on those who fill their pockets with our misery, on those who have robbed us and want us to be poor and submissive, on those who use our money to finance negotiations that are not very clear, on those who act as real mafias, on those who are in the service of builders and not of people who are not well-known, and on those who find it in the credit of families and small traders, but after that we have to rescue money from everyone. And, therefore, if we want economic sovereignty, among other things, one of the tools that could help us is the public bank, and also regulate the private bank so that it works as public service. The private bank should also operate within common parameters and objectives. We can't trust private banks right now. It has already become clear to us that the current financial sector is condemning us to a low quality of life and a system of social welfare that is each time more social distress. And it's not just that they control our finances, they also control the communication media and political institutions of all and all, as a result of the heavy debt they suffer. And, if the private bank controls our finances, our institutions and our communication media, it's an obvious fact that we don't even have real democracy... and we're in their hands, that's to say, they're negotiating with people's lives and acting like a pop with their powers dominating every sphere of influence and decision. For this reason, it is a public bank; a public bank that faces the daggers of the markets produced by its cyclical nature. We know it's not the solution to all the problems, we're clear, but it would certainly help to strengthen the local economy and the estrangement of families, and we don't say so, the Nobel Prize in Economics, Joseph Stiglitz. A public bank that remains transparent, ethical and for the benefit of the social needs, of the creation of quality employment, of sustainable and ecological projects, of co-operativeism, of formation and of research; and a public bank that makes the right to decide on the fate of our estalvis. And, besides, the public bank is nothing to be surprised about. They have already commented, companies and companies, that there is not in Germany, in Xile, in Argentina, in Brazil, in France, in Norway, and even in the United States, on, in Dakota, has become the second largest bank in the state. Therefore, the experience tells us that the best we can do is to have a public bank, and the activity financed is powerful enough not to offer a public, ethical, supervised, democratically controlled and oriented alternative to the common good. And for all this, we will vote in favour of this motion. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.196.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Next is the words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.197.0	Thank you, President. Well, we'd like to initiate this intervention by denying the Major. « Denying the major means that, for us, public banking is not the solution, but it has been a part of the problem, not the whole part of the problem, but a substantial part. And we won't say, to whom you think different, that she's a Bolshevik, as Mrs. Regant said, and, more importantly, after feeling her intervention calling for a report from the World Bank – I've been excited and everything, maybe she's getting drunk, she'll end up like Jiménez Losantes, from communism to neoliberalism; we haven't lost hope yet, I see she's wearing the right way, she's not all lost. In any case, the most obvious proof that this is not the solution, but the problem, is that the same European Central Bank, the year 2014, creates the only mechanism of supervision. It was the implicit recognition of the breach that had provoked the national public banks, it was the liquidation of their capacity. Anem per esglaons d'administration; Espanya : Banc d'Espanya, época Zapatero, Fernández Ordóñez had as regular function, supervise, monitor. He devoted himself to doing other things, and therefore caused the breach that he caused. Catalonia : Catalunya Caixa, Barcelona City Council ; Caixa Tarragona, Tarragona City Council, among others. He said: "There is no need to say anything else. [[Rialles.]] They're going to provoke what they're going to provoke. And they also make use of grandiose, typical expressions of this chamber: "Well common, "social work... And the only thing you want to do with the UPC is to insist on the same mistakes that have caused what they have caused, that they are policies that are leading and intervening, beyond the powers of supervision, the public banking. And what is the substantial argument that you are serving? That you are ethically superior to the rest. I won't tell him they're inferior, but at least they're all the same. In the end, more or less, everyone, in this sense, I doubt I can say that it is ethically superior. The public bank today has no sense – today – in a conjuncture of practically zero types of interest, in a conjuncture of clear reactivation of the loan to the private bank, to peppers and privates, which will increase in the own years exponentially, all reports say, also that of the World Bank. Do we have any instruments to justify public intervention? Effectively: ICO, Català Institute of Finance. What can they do better? Also. But no, not much less, in the sense that you are proposing, in the sense that you are proposing in this young man. It is a model, that of the regional public bank, failed all Europe ; failed Germany, of dotze– dotze– Länderbank – « Girozentralen, it is said–, if they failed, the other six are on point. Angela Merkel is refusing to keep them in the stress tests because they know they can't pass them. The European Union has already warned that if they do not change, they will have to fail, too, and they will have to disappear. Model failed in Italy, there is called regional public banks, directly. They've all failed. It is a young man who, in fact, has explained very well the Ciutadans spokesman to his intervention, has an absolutely delirious end point, in which he is asked to manage the buildings of Sareb from all Spain, not only those of Catalonia; a petition that can only be excused in the framework of yesterday's debate of the different uses of the cannabis, because, if not, it cannot be heard. [[Widow's remorse.]] It is a motion absolutely incompatible with economic recovery, it is a motion incompatible with the instructions given by the European Union in the matter. In short, and with this end, the private bank is not a panacea, it is not a spa, we know everyone who has to pay money in the bank, we have a mortgage, a car loan, whatever it is. We know how they behave, but public banking in the hands of irresponsible policies, and more here in Catalonia, in a process, they say, of national construction, would still be worse. This is where our young man's rebuff is. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.198.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the lady Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.199.0	Thank you. Perfect, I would have been worried that, with Citizens and PP, we had agreed on this motion, so I already seem perfect that everything became clear. I would ask Mr. Alejandro if he remembers, of Caja Madrid, who dismantled Caja Madrid, of five games and what game there is behind it, and everything that has been generated around it, because I believe that everyone here has to assume their responsibilities. But I would also say that, as far as I'm concerned, the children's boxes were not public banking. So, please, let's talk, then... if they tell me you're talking with property, talking with property, too. To Mr Espinosa, I hope that the shocolate shroud will be fine, little more to say, don't indigeste him, that goes well late. All right, all right, [[Widow's remorse.]] To Mrs. Alicia Romero and Mr. Oriol Amat, on the subject of the Sareb: I would say to you: "Can we find intermediate solutions? Perhaps so, but to continue contributing to the five-star housing, to which the citizenry of the whole State we have contributed, to the financial entities responsible for the housing bubble, and, therefore, to the hundreds of denunciations that people see, does not seem fair to me. Therefore, we understand that the Sareb must be able to lay hands not only on the citizenry..., to lay hands on the public administrations, not progressively, not preferably for free, but to lay hands on the public floors, because the Sareb does not cease to be, even though it is considered a private entity, something paid with the money of all. That is to say, 45_per_cent is at the hands of the FROB, but the rest, 55_per_cent that is at the hands of the private, is at the hands of the financial entities to whom we, systematically, have donated thousands of millions of euros. Therefore, these floors should be managed publicly and not progressively, but only from the first moment. That the generality is working around this? You know that. Let's keep it going. We will continue to demand that these floors return to the hands of people, and therefore to the hands of public entities. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.200.0	Thank you, Mrs. Regant. We're calling it a vote. [[Jordi Turull and Black ask to speak.]] Mr. Turull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.201.0	Yes, Madam President, for a separate vote on point 2 and point 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.202.0	Two and five.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.203.0	They can vote for us together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.204.0	Okay. [[Alice Romero Llano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.205.0	To ask for a separate vote on item 2.a. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.206.0	Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.207.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.208.0	A separate vote has been requested. Mr Turull told me, from 2 to 5, that they can vote together, but they cannot vote together because they asked me to vote on the 2nd. Therefore, we shall begin the vote. We'll vote 2nd, 2nd, 4th and 5th, all right? [[Pause.]] So, we vote on point 2.a. The vote begins. It was rejected by 21 votes in favour, 111 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number two. The vote begins. It was rejected by 37 votes in favour, 95 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number four. The vote begins. It was approved by 123 votes to 9, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number five. The vote begins. It was rejected by 21 votes in favour, 111 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on the future Catalan public bank and the Catalan Institute of Finance was approved by 99 votes in favour, 33 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the creation of administrative, fiscal and financial structures]] [[302-00070/11]] The twenty-two point of the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the creation of administrative, fiscal and financial structures, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose it has the word Mr. Santi Rodriguez. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm in a hurry, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.209.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, ladies and gentlemen – councillor, yes, I have said ‘counsellor, yes – the parliamentary groups, when we put the questions to the government, look at the scenes of political current both at the time of the inquiry and at the time of the substance of the subsequent motion. I assure you that, at the time we raised this question, we did not have the most remote idea that the motion – which, too, when we presented it, therefore, was presented in a certain march – would have absolutely nothing to do with the mark that is being raised today, after the episode that we saw yesterday in Parliament. Therefore, it is a young man, surely, more necessary and more topical than ever, especially when our spokesman, the Enric Millo, questioned the vice-president. At that time, we spoke of a feeling and its consequences, but we believe that all expectations were exceeded today. And they will allow me a brief reflection, which the President of Parliament knows, because – she, who appeared some time when she was president of an association in Parliament – I myself had the opportunity to express it: "You see here, in Parliament, to tell us that we have to disobey the laws, to us, that we are here making laws, what authority can we have? And it's in this sense that at this young man's presentation, they'll let me give them some thought, won't they? The first; in modern democracies, one of the key elements is the existence of a constitution– if I may, "constitution in lowercases, do not interpret a constitution such as the Constitution – which defines the rights and rights, defines the functions of the State and defines the decision-making procedures. Let me recall Montesquieu's concept of freedom: "Political freedom is the right to do whatever the law allows. And he goes on to say: "If anyone could do what you forbid them to do, they would not have freed them, precisely because everyone else would have exactly the same ability. Surely, you will like a quote from Rousseau more in his Social Contract, in which he stressed that the republic – in tiny, also, with a generalist character – is all state or so politically governed by laws, the legitimacy of which consists of being bound to the will of citizens, which is manifested through laws. I still, if I may, a third quote, from Tocqueville, in this case, alerting about the perill of which he referred to the tyranny of the majority. Because, ultimately, democracy cannot ignore the constitutional and right-wing state, because, if this right-wing state mark is ignored, the demo – the demo – can acquire an unlimited, and even destructive, force. And this conclusion can be seen in the practical application of many of the theories of Rousseau, Marx, or, more contemporaryly, the popular democracies that prevail especially in South America. So, this young man is, in this environment, very elementary. What you are asking is: we preserve democracy, we complement the laws, because we have the great privilege of being able to change the laws, democratically, but democracy and law are two things that cannot go separately, that must go together. And this is what this young man claims, that he is a young man who is so elementary that, under normal conditions, it would not be necessary to lay it down, and that what he asks is that this Parliament manifests its commitment and respect with the legal order, precisely, that gives it legitimacy, that it is not more than the Constitution – now, yes, in capital – and that the State – also in capital. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.210.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Then, as there are no papers presented, to fix his position has the word Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.211.0	Thank you, Madam President. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, three weeks ago – it was July 7 – the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional the state structures provided for in Law 3/2015 of 11 March on fiscal, administrative and financial measures. The additional provisions 22 to 26 declared them unconstitutional, because, basically, what was provided for in those additional provisions was the creation of structures; some were tax administration in Catalonia; others were energy, telecommunications, information, rail transport, providing for a possible assumption of powers which is currently prohibited by this Constitution we have of 1978. The Constitutional Court has made it very clear: "Hey, you can't expect to take over powers that, now, the Constitution says are not yours. They cannot be providing, in these laws, that there will be a constitutional amendment that will allow them to take over, assume powers that no longer gives them the Constitution. They were also planning to create a Catalan social security agency, which... We saw the other day, here, that the law intended to make this state structure that was declared unconstitutional three weeks ago, and we approved it here. Finally, an elaboration of the catalogue of strategic infrastructures for Catalonia, « to guarantee – said the law declared unconstitutional – « the continuity, service and strategic infrastructures of Catalonia. And yesterday, at last, a resolution is also declared, which directly disobeyed an express mandate from the Constitutional Court, assuming, in our view, the responsibility of the President of Parliament, since the Members, as we have been told, and it is true, are inviolable in terms of the opinions and votes cast in the Chamber. Therefore, this frontal attack on the Constitutional Court is already taking place from the Government, from the Government of the Generalitat and from this Parliament. And that leads us to the following: we know, because we are all grown-ups already, that, well, you, in this part of the Chamber, say that you are going to go to independence, which is very respectable and very legitimate; what is neither respectable nor legitimate is to do what you do overstep democracy and overstep laws and overstep the rights of most Catalans, thinking that you are only going to obey the laws that you like, the laws that you believe are good or reasonable. Look, we believe that this you are doing is not overly new or rare in Europe today. In Europe, today, we have populist movements everywhere. Le Pen is in France, Brexit has passed in Britain, Austria, Poland, Hungary, in the United States with Donald Trump, in Greece, everywhere we have populisms. And here, in Catalonia, we have one; but one so serious – so serious – that even the laws are skipped, even disobeys the very courts of the country in which they are based. This, believe me, will pass you the political bill, because you have lied to the Catalans, you are continually lying to the Catalans. The other day I saw the famous debate – famous among the unionists, and I am sure that, among the independenceists, we say, deplored debate – by Mr Borrell against Mr Junqueras, in which it was shown that the figure of the 16,500_millions of fiscal deficit is false; that the figure of the 800_millions that the State was winning financing Catalonia is false; that the figure of the 4_per_cent of the Länder, of expenditure limits that they said so much, is false. And all that false..., said Mr. Junqueras: "Well, let it not be a penny! What does it matter? Even if it was a penny, what matters is whether you want to rule your own destiny or not. And, man, it does matter, because when you lie to get others to vote for you, it's when you do populism that we denounce in other parts of Spain, in other parts of Europe and in other parts of the world, in the United States. And, you guys, what you're doing is making use of those lies to get you to expand that big minority you have, but it's not a majority yet. And without this majority, you are trying to create state structures based on lying and overstepping the laws. We, gentlemen, are going to vote yes to this motion for a resolution by the People's Party because it says Perogrullo's truths: that the laws are complied with, that the sentences are complied with. And I hope that all the groups in this House who are not in the challenge to democracy will do so, because the truth is that it is a little embarrassing for Catalans and for Catalonia, what is happening in this Parliament. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.212.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.213.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Members, Members, asks us the People's Party, at the side of the chamber, that we manifest that all parliamentary activity must be adjusted to the constitutional and statutory framework of what the powers and legitimacy of the chamber emanate. Well, it's no big deal. It is, as has already been said, even on the part of the proposing group, an obviousness. He asks us, too, in the second point of the motion, that it is respect for what a ruling of the Constitutional Court has said, and, therefore, that it is not to develop the political, legal and social initiatives that it has as its objective to develop or exercise competences that are not close to the Generality, according to the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. Okay. This is also something that should be in the normal and usual practice of any government. Well, you're saying, too, that all states that are composed, that are plural internally, have competition conflicts. Another question is when it is deliberately sought to access these skills knowing that it is so and want institutional confrontation. And, in the third point, it is asked that, since it is not possible to develop what has been annulled by the Constitutional Court, therefore, that it is not possible to do so, that the Parliament should be informed of what would have been done and that it is not possible to develop what, well, is derived from what has been annulled. It is obvious that the acts administered, all that..., all the decision based on something that has been annulled, therefore, should be paralyzed, as at least, and, in any case, surely, would be considered null and void if it were also brought before a court. Here's what's normal. I'm already telling you, yes, yes, we will vote for it. But will it be refused? We know the majority of Parliamentarians in this chamber; probably, even in the case it was approved, it would be ignored, because there is a full route that, in part, seeks this strategy of institutional conflict, of increasing tension between the Catalan institutions and the Spanish Government. And we don't solve the political problem of foundations. I believe that what we need to do is to recognize all that there is a political problem of foundations, which is very difficult to resolve, while some parts and others decide to stick, only and exclusively, in their positions and consider them immobile. We will be in a permanent empath of impotence – I have said this more than once since this Farostol; my group supported it – if we do not all agree that we can explore political projects that can be more shared than that which consists of considering that nothing can be questioned, that nothing can be moved by what it does to the established order, or those who consider that there is no other way out than unilaterally declaring the secession of Catalonia and posing, in fact, already, to build this new Catalan state. Because otherwise, we will find ourselves in a very difficult situation to resolve. Look, we've heard, often, in this room and out of this room, the euphemism or the half-way that the Spanish State is a wall and that what it is to skip the wall. All right. And, in part, I think that what we saw yesterday is a gesticulation that tends to make us believe that there is this leap from the wall, and that, therefore, we are starting to build institutions in an independent Catalan state. There may be a part of the citizenry, a significant part of the Catalan citizenry that you consider legitimate and representative of these new institutions. Certainly, I pointed that out yesterday: in the conclusions of the Committee on the Study of the Process, it is also clear that all natural or legal persons and all public power must be submissive to what the assembly says they constitute. And I say, I also need to foresee some mechanism of coercion to make this, effectively, to be so. And I wonder if they would recognize, then, our right, of those who do not believe that these are legitimate and representative institutions, to disobey them and to build our own institutions in the March of Catalonia. I understand that this actually brings us to this situation, that some Catalans and Catalans believe that the institutions of the new Catalan state are born to be legitimate and representative, and many other Catalans and Catalans believe that the legitimate and representative institutions are those emanating from the Catalonian State of Autonomy, the Spanish Constitution, and that, therefore, this is a situation in which the head of government responsible would want to put his fellow citizens and fellow citizens, because it is a very difficult situation to resolve. If someone explains to me how this is done without a conflict not only institutional, but also political and social importance, I am well willing to listen to it. But we have to ask ourselves – and I end up here – whether it pays the penalty to make this leap forward, act, in fact, in this way, when there is a significant, important part of the country, that does not want to jump the wall with you, that does not want to accompany them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.214.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Then there's the words of Mr. Joan Coscubiela, of Catalonia Yes, it's Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.215.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely believe that, because the function of this House is complete, the PP's motion in defence of the constitutional order could not be lacking. To dramatic staging..., like yesterday, it would not be the same, doubtful sense, without a motion of the PP, of response, in defense of the constitutional order; a PP that certainly devotes so much time, to the defense of the Constitution, that it does not have time to read it, it seems that it remains in article 2, "the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, and has not had time to arrive, for example, to article 35, which recognizes the right to work, or article 47, which recognizes the right to decent housing. But, well, from this perspective, all folded, yesterday's session and today's PP's motion are in the service, so I think so, and so I say, of a scenario that, curiously, has less conflict than it seems, that is a shared object. On the one hand, it serves as an alibi for some for his "yes to the question of confidence of President Puigdemont; on the other hand, it serves to feed the pressure to obtain the investiture of candidate Rajoy". These own days, surely, we will witness a ceremony that will take place in different dishes, but that will have the same guide: it will increase the tension by increasing from tomorrow, especially from the Council of Ministers. End when? Until one and the other tingo guarantees what they want: one, the question of trust, Mr. Puigdemont; the other, the investiture, Mr. Rajoy. Rajoy will use the challenge of velvet, the disobedience of stone cart and in different, the revolution of the motions, encapsulated by Jordi Turull, besides the Catalan Bukharin [[relays]] , all to pressure the PSOE and Citizens to give their support to the investiture. And Puigdemont will use – as you see it, as it is true – this pressure, which will also come out growing from the Council of Ministers, for what? To give more reason, still, to the vote of some people to their question of trust. In short, it is a very old thing, it is the mutual feedback of a conflict which is more apparent than real, but which is based, fundamentally, on the scienification of the scept of legitimacy, which, as Mr Ferran Pedret has clearly said, has no more than two solutions: one, the negotiation and the pact, essential; the other, one which I believe would not want anyone, that of a conflict which, without doubt, is a social conflict, and not only with Spain, but also an internal conflict in Catalonia. In short, we are ahead of a complicated situation, and this young man, done when done, is in the service of this polarization strategy, which, in the end, will only come out benefiting President Puigdemont and candidate Rajoy. But, curiously, no one believes that the scene ends today. Still says we'll have an interesting epilogue tomorrow, huh? I mean, the Council of Ministers will take a series of measures that it has already announced, around the yesterday's decision of the plenary of this Parliament, and, at the same time, will take a decision around the Democratic Convergence Group of Catalonia. You'll see how it ends. I can end with a payment of the services loaned to Convergence Democrática de Catalunya for their vote to the PP and Citizens at the Congress Table, or I can end it in another way, I can end it later on as things end, to Convergence, in this sense, and it is that I find that you do not have this payment, because, like Convergence Democrática de Catalunya, they will know why, they have gotten used to paying in advance without asking for pay and senyal, and I do it to the UPC in Catalonia and to the PP in Spain, so I can find it in a situation like this. Well, this is the reality we find ourselves in, and it's a frankly complicated reality, because, after all, there's a serious problem of legitimate attacks that we can't continue to feed from that perspective. And, above all, we cannot feed it, clearly, as it was said yesterday, we have already expressed our position against, that there is a legality, that it comes from not knowing where, that it imposes itself on anything else, on the rights of the rest of the people and without any type of control, nor of power of another type, nor, nor, nor, nor, nor, nor, judicial. In this sense, we will vote that this PP's motion is not, and not because we do not agree with respect for democratic standards; we agree. We will vote that not for two reasons: because it encourages this sham of legitimates and does not bring us to any place, and, second of all, because, honestly – sincerely – to raise things like these to have a certain moral authority, and I will be forgiven by Mr Santi Rodríguez, not him, but the one who represents, the People's Party has little legitimacy to give us lessons of constitutional respect. Some of us have suffered, and we have suffered in the first figure, as the minorities in the Congress of Deputies and in Spain, as the dissident minorities in any other place in the State are. That's why we'll vote no, but we've convinced ourselves that we're coming to a situation that we hope is not coming back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.216.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Next is the words of Mr Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.217.0	Thank you, President. I must begin, first of all, by taking a lead in answering Mr. Pedret and Mr. Coscubiela, because I am surprised that two people who know so much about the right and who give us so many lessons about the right in this chamber after suffering so much confusion about the difference between what is power and what is power constitute, because, yesterday, what is discussed in this chamber were conclusions of process, and whatever process constitutes anywhere in the world that is democratic, there is no rule that passes over what is decided by power constitute, precisely because it sees some constituent-constituent elections! – to see if they understand from one of these words, that when they are a constituent election, there appears a constituent power, and, from here, there appears a constitution. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, the Spanish State, no! There was Franco, first, and then the Spanish king, who imposed a channeling of this power constitute, and therefore, it was never constituted. And provided that you, who contained within your formation a group that is called Constituent Power, do not know how to distinguish what is constituted power from what is constituted power. So, yesterday, here, what it is talked about is what kind of registrar rules in a process constitute. And, in a constituted process, we do not forget, justice does not control the laws, because you, who claim both the separation of powers, precisely, one is the judiciary and the other is the legislature. Do not play legal trilerism, of course not, they are independent powers. Yes or no? [[Pause.]] Yes or no? [[Pause.]] Therefore, they do not come to caricaturize, say they do not want to participate in a constituent process, say they do not want to recognize the sovereignty of this Parliament and let – let alone – cheat on the solitary by doing right classes in this Parliament. Second place, and that was what I had to say in this intervention, more than having to answer them. The right– the right– says..., says Albert Lamarca, the chairman of the Legal Commission Advisor, paraphrased Vincent Andres Estellés, that the right is not the key that opens all panys, but that neither can be the door that holds all hopes. I believe that, at least in a democratic position, the right must always be a tool of change, a tool of solution. The right cannot be understood from a monolithic catechistic view, as here we have tried to set up, if not, we can run the risk of ending up in a copyrighted state – a copyrighted state – which has also existed. You are so pleased to recall episodes of the contemporary history of Europe..., I would like precisely that, from a legal perspective, there is no reflection on which are the conclusions that constitutionalism makes after the Second World War, precisely in relation to how the law – the law – managed the period of national socialism. And it is precisely when Hannah Arendt examines who was the role of right and right obedience, that Hannah Arendt concludes that obedience and fascism are two who care about the same coin, and it is when Hannah Arendt poses the need to disobey what is unjust. And the German Constitution precisely included in its Article 20.4, the need for the citizens to disobey the laws when these laws are unjust. Of course I speak of the German Constitution, I do not speak of the Spanish Constitution, of course, because the German Constitution, let us say, you never mention it, which says the German Constitution, says the Portuguese Constitution, says the Argentine Constitution, so many constitutions that include the right to disobedience of the citizens, understand, precisely, that when there is an injustice, it is the obligation of the conscious and democratic citizens to disobey what is unjust. And, therefore, we will vote head-on against his motion, not only because it is obvious that he does not recognize the sovereignty, somehow, full, of this Parliament, which we have claimed in the historical moment in which we find ourselves, but because, moreover, I think he is making a trap that closes the circle of this question, and that is that the power and legitimacy of this chamber come from the constitutional and statutory mark. We already know that, to the Catalan institutions, he did not give them legitimacy to the Constitution of 78; we recovered these institutions before the year 78. But not only because of this, but because the powers of parliaments and the legitimacy of parliaments do not come from constitutions, they come from the people. It is the people who give legitimacy and power to parliaments. And that's what we're gonna claim. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.218.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. The words of Mr Eduardo Reyes, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.219.0	Thank you very much, President. Bona tarda tothom, vice president, counselor, deputies and deputies..., it's amazing how it feels when you get here to address yourself to professional politicians, having come from where I come from. As always, I always write something to say, but then I come out here to say what I have to say, that I think that's what I have to do, right? I'm ashamed, really, I'm ashamed to feel things I feel here. You are here to serve the people, to serve whatever the majority of the people want, that is pure democracy. But not that number of people that you say are the majority of the people..., look, behind seventy-two deputies there are two million people. [[remorse of the voice]] And we... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.220.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.221.0	Madam President, will you spare me this time that I...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.222.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.223.0	You are here as I am: to attend..., so that you do not be ashamed tomorrow that your children will live worse than you, because I lived a little better than my parents because you left your horns there working to give us a dignified life, and you... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.224.0	You'll have to respect the word tower.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.225.0	It's a way to talk. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry – I'm sorry. If you're going to apply the code of ethics to me now, I'm sure... Look, it's very simple, I'm on the street every day, talking to people and listening to their problems, listening to the problems of people who really have problems, who don't get to the end of the month, and when I explain to them what the fiscal deficit is, a lot of people who don't understand it, who don't know what the fiscal deficit is, they tell me: "I didn't know this. I didn't know that. And I react to a vote of fear. Scared. Because you, starting with the Ciutadans party, you're saying... I've been in Barcelona for fifty years..., and I've spoken in català..., eight months ago, one year ago, that I speak català. No one has ever told me that "I'll break your face because..., if you don't speak català or castella. But what is this? What are you doing for life? Go you people, for life – people. They all lie like bellacos – like bellacos. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, we will vote, from Junts pel Yes, "no to the motion put forward by the People's Party. This motion responds to the same policy that so far the Government of Mariano Rajoy has ignored, has done ignoring the majority will of the people of Catalonia and fighting it in a very unclean way. In entering the text of the motion, we must bear in mind that three years ago we learned that the president of the Constitutional Court paid the share of the PP militant, even when he was already part of the same Constitutional Court. Talking about the Constitutional Court is talking about a political court, not a constitutional court. The institutions of the State have converted this body, charged with controlling the constitutionality of the laws, into a political body, discrediting from the shameful process of studying the unconstitutionality of the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia, machacando – I repeat, machacando – the norm approved by the Parliament of Catalonia, by the General Courts, endorsed by the people of Catalonia. However, what is evident is that the constitutional conflict is the expression of the inability of the People's Party Government to manage the demand of the majority of citizens to exercise the right to decide on their political status in Catalonia, since, instead of showing a democratic talent, it is constantly hiding behind a constitutional court, invoking to the right and sinister the sacramental character of the constitutional text in the most centralist version possible of it. One example is the systematic interposition of resources of unconstitutionality against the tax measures promoted by the Generalitat, such as judicial fees, the euro per prescription, tax on the production of electricity of nuclear origin, tax on empty floors, as well as the tax on deposits in credit institutions; that is, always against the ability to decide and create tools to improve the Generalitat's income, always against the instruments so that we can create laws to help people, such as the 24/2015 Law, urgent measures to deal with the emergency in the field of housing and energy poverty. As for the... [[Funnel veils]] – I run out of time, as far as I go. As regards the judgment, it declares the unconstitutionality of certain provisions of the Tax, Financial and Administrative Measures Act of 2015, the Constitutional Court recognizes the exclusive competence of the Generalitat to regulate its own tax administration, the Catalan Tax Agency and its administrative economic bodies, and also recognizes regulatory competence in the tax field. What it declares unconstitutional is the Management Master Plan...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.226.0	Mr. Reyes, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.227.0	...taxation in relation... Happy holidays, having a good time, and when they come, a little remember that there are many people there waiting for them to behave as more people on the street than as politicians.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.228.0	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. [[Voice remorse and some applause.]] Next, we will proceed to the vote on the motion. We're calling it a vote. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.229.0	For contradictions and allusions of Mr. Salellas, obviously. Mr. Salellas, when we give our father in this chamber, whether in committee or in plenary, we do not intend to give lessons to anyone. If you take them that way, you may have a problem with the dialog and the interlocution between different parliamentary groups; this, from a band. On the other hand, in a democracy..., since you illustrate me about your vision of power constitute and the constitution, in a democracy that counts with a democratic constitution, the power constitutes channelism through the mechanisms envisaged... [[Funnel veils]] , and so on, through the mechanisms provided for in the Constitution – and so on. You can – in fact – you can – in fact, you can – if you have the capacity to impose it, you can build up yourself as a new Catalan republic. They can try – they can try – but they can't convince me that this is lawful or legitimate on the basis of some legislative elections to a parliament such as the Parliament of Catalonia. They do not have the legitimacy to take a step that is, in fact, to rise to power constitute and decide who should be the new institutions of the Catalan Republic. They won't be able to convince us. And, in any case, they never – never – answer the question I ask them: what, in fact, of all those Catalans who do not want to jump the wall with you, who do not consider that what they are doing is legitimate or lawful? What do we do? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.230.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.231.0	Madam President, for contradictions and allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.232.0	One minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.233.0	By contradictions, Mr Salellas..., Mr Salellas, I think you have..., well, I don't know, wanted to give us here a lesson from the content of the German Constitution, and the truth is that the German Constitution says exactly the opposite, Article 20, of what you say. Look, Article 20.3: "The legislature is subject to constitutional order; the executive and judicial branches, the law and the law. And point 4, that of resistance, says: « Against anyone who tries to eliminate this order, all Germans have the right of resistance when no other remedy is possible. That's what he says. [[Greetings.]] As for the contradictions; well, Madam President, I would first like to say to you my group's complaint because it has been agreed that one of the speakers should call the members of my group liars and bellacos, without being called to order, which I believe was the least that could be asked when there is a president leading the debates. And secondly, I refer to the Republican Left Group. The Groupe de Esquerra Republicana, remember that, a couple of years ago, they made a crash on Elvira Lindo because towards the municipal pregon in Barcelona in Spanish language. When someone spoke here in this Parliament, in the Spanish language, the deputies of Squerra Republicana rose up and were offended by the Chamber, also those of Convergence. And I'm glad you've incorporated them now. [[remorse of the voice]] to his group..., the brilliant incorporation of Mr. Reyes, with which they have brilliantly debuted in this Chamber speaking Spanish of Castile. [[Greetings.]] [[Benet Salellas and Vilar ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.234.0	Mr. Salellas – Mr. Salellas. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.235.0	For allusions, thirty_seconds ask for it, to answer the considerations. In the first place, to Mr Pedret..., and, really, I have explained very poorly, that is to say, the difference between constitutional reform and the process is I think that we should have made it quite clear. Constitutional reform is not a process. And here's exactly where the difference is. Secondly, on the content of Article 20.4 of the German Law, I really like to consult the Internet to search for it, but in any case, readin– readin– what the academy says about the content of this article, readin' how it was interpreted, readin' what Hannah Arendt says, precisely, about obedience, and, readin', precisely, how to fight against fascism. And finally, in relation to what they don't want to jump, Mr. Pedret. So, it's very simple: put a reference, once in a while, and allow us to exercise the right to self-determination in this country and see if he wins the "yes" or if he wins the "no." If he wins the yes, we will proclaim this republic at once. Thank you very much. [[Greetings. Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.236.0	Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.237.0	For allusions and contradictions with Mr. Salellas and Mr. Kings. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you. Mr. Reyes..., look, I was born in Vilanova i la Geltrú, of Catalan parents and grandparents, workers and workers, and I don't need to speak any language or other to reaffirm my Catalanity, and less, declare myself independent. [[Greetings.]] Mr. Salellas, you spoke of national socialism and you spoke of obedience to laws. He forgot, too, saying that, according to what you read, disobedience is justified. He's forgotten one phonetic aspect, two, several. One: remember that nationalsocialism also gained power through democracy – one. Two: obedience and disobedience to laws, who decides them? You? The CUP assembly? Who decides them? And to finish: and the process..., that we are in a process constitute, it is also you, that you decide? The rest of society has absolutely nothing to say? I think they're wrong. Pardon me, I still have a reference to the German Constitution, which, like the Spanish Constitution, has constitutional principles which, in Spain, require a strengthened majority and references to be modified, but which, in Germany, are not even allowed. That is to say, whatever you are asking Catalonia or Spain for Catalonia, Germany could not ask for it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.238.0	Let's go vote for the senate. Mr. Turull, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.239.0	For references to this group, just tell Mr Santi Rodríguez that this is the Parliament of Catalonia's hemicle, that this is not group therapy, that we all explain where we come from and what we are. [[Widow's remorse.]] And then, tell him, Mr. Carrizosa, that I fully understand that, when he was told that you were lying, so he didn't call them attention, because that's not an opinion, but a finding. On the subject of language, you lie more than you speak. Here the only ones who leave the hemicicle are you when you vote for something they don't like. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.240.0	Vice President, why ask me the word? You didn't intervene. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's true, they've alluded to it. Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.241.0	Go away, I was greeted as the president of a party that was explicitly quoted by a member of the Citizens' Group, who complained that he had been told to lie, and, at the same time, made a rule of lies, one king the other. So, no..., let me know, this group and the deputies of..., referring to Republican Left, we have not abandoned this hemicicle these days nor have we... And, in change, you abandon it every two for three. So... [[Widow's remorse.]] Therefore, and listen, and on the linguistic question, remember it, another time, which we have recalled many times: the children of this country, the children and the children of this country finish the compulsory education speaking the triple of languages that any president of the Spanish Government in his history. [[Greetings. Sonia Sierra Infante asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.242.0	Mrs. Sierra, you haven't spoken. In any case, what do you ask... [[Rialles and strong remorse of the eyes.]] Listen, Mr. Carrizosa, who spoke, did not speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.243.0	He lied; Junqueras just lied. He said that his group did not abandon the hemicicle to speak in castle; yes, it was on October 30, 1996, when Mr Julio Ariza, deputy of the PP, spoke in Spanish. Therefore, both Convergence and Republican Left MPs left. And, at the Barcelona City Hall, they planted Mrs. Elvira Lindo, they organized a skirmish for her, and they threw a water-filled ampoule at me, and it was organized for the Republican Left Lords of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings. María José García Cuevas asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.244.0	Mrs. García Cuevas... can I talk to everyone here? [[Pause.]] Mr. Rodriguez. No, no, It's over. Please, let me speak to Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.245.0	First question; a point of order to the Speaker of Parliament. The Vice President of the Government can speak with the Vice President of the Government, not as Secretary General of the Republican Left, and gives me the impression [[applause]] who used the word as the Secretary General of the Republican Left. In any case, as the considerations have already been made, remind him, to Mr Junqueras..., has already made a deputy of Ciutadans, but I will pay me, if I will, to the Second Republic [[remorse of the voice]] , when, during the vote – during the vote – of President Macià, a part of this hemicicle left, also, the Parliament of Catalonia. Therefore, I fixed 'the tradition of abandoning the scons before second-guessing is no innovation of the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-27-2103.246.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. The Ple leads me. Let's get to the vote. [[Strong remorse of voice and applause.]] The vote begins. The motion on the creation of administrative, fiscal and financial structures has been rejected by 50 votes in favour, 82 against and no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] And before the plenary closes, as is the past of this session period, unfortunately, I would like to thank the members of the Bureau, the Board of Spokesmen and all the parliamentary groups for their willingness to work in favour of the institution of different political positions, obviously. And, in particular, I would like to thank all those Members who have maintained an outstanding attitude of collaboration and understanding towards the close frictions of parliamentary life. Many thanks and very good holidays. [[Greetings.]] The session rises to three-quarters of the late hour.
