ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.1.0	The session begins. Very nice late. In agreement with the Board of Spokesmen of October 11th, we shall proceed, first of all, to substantiation of the questions included in the order of the day. Questions to the Government and the President of the Generality, in accordance with Rule 161 of the Rules of Procedure, will be substantiated tomorrow to the gods of the morning. Thus, I am sure that, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Esther Niubó of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has delegated her vote to the spokesman of her parliamentary group, Mrs Eva Granados. Let's get started, then. [[Asking the Government about support policies for families]] [[300-00092/11]] The first item on the agenda is the question to the Government on support policies for families presented by the Popular Group of Catalonia. To present it, has the word Mr. Fernando Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.2.0	Thank you, Your Honor. Honourable Counselor, Honourable Vice-President, I am pleased that you are there, because part of the intervention, I feel that I have to wait for the second part, but it will be of..., we will talk about family fiscal policies and, therefore, it is also good that the person responsible, in the end, for the assumptions, therefore, follows. Now we won't talk about it. The independence process seems to be a bit touched, because when you carry the Franco and the companies day and night, but... now this will come tomorrow and now it's up to us to talk about other issues. Ladies and gentlemen, we have disconnected – we have disconnected – we are in a process of disconnection, counsel. Why, look, when the citizen of Catalonia asks the CEO's question: "What is the most important thing for you? , they say: "The most important thing for me is the family atmosphere, the family, my family. Much more than the lleure, than the work, which relegated it, than the friends, than politics. And, in change, what do we have, counsel? So, we have a Parliament that doesn't have this issue on the agenda, we have a government that doesn't care, and we have a council that hasn't done anything for family policies. You... and here in Parliament, we've all talked a lot about this, and you, the government, have still done less. Why, this invisibility of family policies? Maybe... Well, we could do a lot of interpretations, right? Perhaps for the identification and connotation with certain social sectors that this has had, and also for a conception of public life that they share..., the truth is that liberals, socialists, share it, that is to say, public life as a sphere between two poles: the individual and the State – the individual and the State – and, therefore, with this dialectic are relegated to other intermediate community realities, such as family reality or local communities, for example. And we are standing back, advising – we are standing back – because, for example, the third sector, for example, social studies, psychological studies, anthropological studies, what they say to us is that individual problems must also be addressed from a systemic perspective, around them. We can't – even though you like them very much – address problems unilaterally, but only focus on the subject that has problems. In order to face a situation of vulnerability, a dynamic of exclusion, a school failure, we must intervene in the subject, but we must intervene in its family and social environment. For example, a case of school failure. We have a case of school failures and we need to see, therefore, what happens to failures in abilities, motivations, learning dynamics of that student; but we need to go further and we need to know what relationship you have with your friends, what is the climate of your family relationships, etc. And this third sector is doing it, and we are not doing it from the public policies of the Generality; nor from others, of course. And, therefore, in this Parliament, we are developing an environmental law – an environmental law – to take care of our ecosystems. So, the first ecosystem of human life is the familiar environment. And what we propose in this motion is, precisely, measures... – in this inquiry – we want to ask him and then we want to propose measures to strengthen, to stimulate this ecosystem, which, in truth, we have politically well-deserved, without reg, with rare fonts and under intensive deforestation. And despite everything, it's the landscape that Catalans and Catalans like the most. We could denounce the inactivity of the councillor and say: "What is the summary of the councillor's action? Transparency. But transparency has not given us your information, but it has been so thin, so thin that it is almost invisible. He will advise, in this sense, the most important thing we remember from his action in family policies is that he went to take possession with a « hook against the retails, but then we don't know any other measure, any other concrete and firm activity. But I don't want to stop here. What I want to do, counsel, is a constructive inquiry to see what the problems are, to see if we can explore solutions to the situation of Catalan families. And they ask him for a change of course, they ask him to make a decisive and determined bet for a powerful public policy. First of all, we are talking about poverty, poverty and vulnerability and exclusion. You presented a few days ago – a few weeks – an economic yearbook, the yearbook of the Catalonia Economic and Social Council, and there it is explained that one_of_each_four families is at risk of exclusion. This, the students tell us, is an atomic bomb in the living room, in the "fourth state of many families. It is true that in one year the xifra has been significantly damaged, that is to say, it has been damaged from 26_per_cent to 23_per_cent and, therefore, we return to the level of 2009. But we're still in a very high amount of severe material deprivation. And the studies warn us of these deprivations, because they tell us: these material deprivations, this exclusion, has a risk to physical salvation; but these deprivations also show themselves as triggers of family crises. And we find that family breakdowns are produced today especially in vulnerable environments. And that's a dangerous vicious circle, because, of course, the breakdown involves less entrances and more expense and more work out of the house and less is, too, at home and, therefore, more risk to infants. And therefore, counsel, we must make a clear policy to accompany these families, these more vulnerable families, and we must try to take over these families. And with what? We had an instrument in Catalonia that was child support. And I'll say a few good things about the tripartite today. It's that you're doing the right tripartite thing, really; it's funny, huh? , which in time seemed like a disaster... So the tripartite devoted 200_million euros to helping the child. This is a direct stimulus to these more vulnerable families; this is a help that can greatly strengthen this family ecosystem, and that ultimately also relates to the poor child, to the school success of these children. And I ask you, Counselor: what commitments can you make today about child support, about universal child benefit, even though it is progressive? I, Counselor... The progressive. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I know they paid for it, the one that came from 2010, but what I want is for them to put it back on the table. They don't have money for other things, do they? [[Rialles.]] So, that's why. But not all of them... And so, they're asking us to clarify what you want to do in this sense. But not all problems are economic. A while ago, a few weeks ago, a question with four thousand families, they asked them: "What is their main problem in having children? We know, for the sake of the generality, that Catalan women say they would have liked to have twice as many children as they had – well, that's to say, two, because the middle is that they have one – and they can't, and they say, "Why can't we? And they're challenging themselves. First, in many cases, for economic reasons; but even more – they say, counsel, to the inquiries –, even more for reasons of hours – is not the Fabián Mohedano here now, but... – for reasons of hours of work. And therefore, I ask you what you propose to us today, what bet for conciliation and hourly reform we will do. Listen, with a fertility rate of 1.3 there is no pension system possible, there is no economic growth possible, there is no hope possible, because in the end an enveloped society, without creativity... And, in this sense, I proposed to him: what policy of bressol schools...? And another time the tripartite: 90_millions the year 2009 in bressol schools. How can they get away with it, how can they get away with it, how can they get away with it? What if half of your son is already going to pay for a babysitter's day care? We need a bold, courageous school policy in Bressol. And if we don't have enough money, we either have sex or we have female private sector concerts. We do this with primary schooling, with secondary education, with residences, with the third sector; why can't we do this with day care? The policy of reconciliation is also a policy of equality, because it also allows, because the reality still is, a better incorporation of the woman into the world of work. And the policy of equality is a policy of social welfare, because it is proven that if more women, above all lower returns, enter the world of work, diminish the poor child and increase family returns. In short, counsel, I ask you to explain to us what you think you are doing with universal help per child, with schools in the country, with reconciliation policies. He'll keep going.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.3.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. To answer, has the word Constellera Dolors Bassa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.4.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. After the last two sessions that we have had in Parliament, the motion of confidence and the debate on general policy, we have clearly said, first, that the full road is on the march and that we are now, like the government, a decisively, democratically, towards the future, need for the democratic option that we have taken with responsibility for one band; but for the other, in general policy we have said that the current government clearly wanted two things: one, to make possible a more just society, to attack inequality and to provide more opportunities for all its people. Therefore, I like, and indeed we have strongly congratulated, that I can start the first inquiry after these family-related debates. See if we give little importance, that the department is said: « Work, Social Affairs and Families. I don't know if the department had ever been called "family" or "counselor" or "counselor" or "counselor" by Treball, Afers Socials and Families. So, it's true that the name doesn't do the thing, but it is a good start. Something means that, like the first name we have in the department, we're talking about families. It means that for us it's important and that what we want is, like the government, to push the support of them. It is the basic element of any society. They want to develop, grow and learn in a safe environment, in a environment... in a space of relationship, in a space of esteem and in a space of solidarity. And that can only be done from a nucleus, which is the family. But the family in all its future; not talking about family as a biologic or genetic element, but families as a living environment. That's why we're talking about strong families, different families, families that are the echelon enough to be able to come about themselves. And I claim – and we claim it – from any optical that defending the collectible welfare is beginning to defend the welfare of families. It is the important part of the new state and, therefore, the families, we are aware of the effort they make. We have... you said, the resolution has to be systemic; we can't talk about help to infants if we don't talk about help to families, we can't talk about teenagers betraying them of the sense of family. The mass – mass – the families have suffered the consequences of these last moments of crisis, of detail in general. The effort and patience that is produced by the age, by male violence, by school absenteeism, by the poor, is sometimes silently pathetic. And here we are at the side of families; because we build a system of care policies that offer effective and dignified supports. In fact, today I can speak to it clearly because, after today's International Day of the Poor, on October 17, we took part in different acts like government, and therefore we had the opportunity to follow what is said, today, on the Government's press wheel, we presented different measures, and, among them, some of the most important were the measures to support families in a situation of vulnerability, which, if we want, we would then enter into the detail of all the measures we have presented and of which is the economic quantity that we bring, more than we all know of a failed assumption – well, "failed, not, not debated" – of 2016, which foresees 800_million in social policies. So, you'll see how all the families we've increased the assumption, having the same, having it extended, so you mean making preferences, looking for priorities, and putting the family as it is. What do we have, support? So, in principle, a subject that you know or know. You know that there was an integral support plan for the family 2014-2016; we are continuing the plan; we have pushed the integral support plan for families 2017-2020, so, for three years, to give response to the new family realities and to give more effective attention. This integral plan is the instrument that must agglutinate all departments of the Generality, returning to what you said from a systemic view and not a detailed and poor view; here there must be all departments; therefore, an interdepartmental agreement that allows you to give this impulse to continue, which serves as a cross-cutting work tool, which allows you to evaluate and be quick to do more and better public policies. It's redefined this plan, but it's done with all the visions. For example, foster families, who had never been in the previous plan; single-parent families, who had never been in the previous plan. Therefore, we are setting priorities, and this work must be linked to everything that is school-based, to family maltreatment, which is also there, because it is all folded into effective women's support and guidance to families. We have set aside the members of the Observatory of the Family, which had remained for a long time, with all the entities of the third sector linked to the field, that have to see with families, and now they will add them to the locals. In fact, I can tell you that the last meeting of the Family Observers was this 15th of September itself, it was one and a half minutes ago, where we set up a work plan to find us again. Therefore, we work tirelessly to fight the poor and their effects directly to families. The UN says that the poor are not measured by the lack of entrances, which is manifested by the restricted access to salvation – it is not necessary to explain to them the new law that we are advancing in the themes of salvation – for education, for essential services... Therefore, supporting families is all that is shared, cross-cutting and cooperative. From the government, when territorial politics, work for families, when we talk about educational policy and educational actions we are working for families and when we work in healthcare, in socio-health care, we are working for families. Therefore, to cover the most basic needs and the material we could name to work to take over the families, we especially strengthen relationships and bonds. Here I don't have to tell you that one of the government's initiatives that we're now the SOAFs, you know that they're the guidance services and accompanying families. There was no god; we are bending them, we are coming. The 2017 program contract brought an increase; to say some, to Barcelona, a new one, three to the metropolitan area, to Vic, to Mataró, to Granollers, to Sabadell, to Salt, to Terres de l'Ebre. Strengthening parenting is important for families; beyond money, they ask for support, they ask for support, and these are the tools that we are giving at these times. In these SOAFs we have different programs. You know the "Creating as a family; then, if you need it, we'll lose it. The «Family foots, we have opened sixty-nine open centres because vulnerable families can carry their children, who, apart from the educational task, can also have two or three meals, the foots..., and we are working in a grant of nine. You're talking to me about child support, these 200_millions; I remind you that we have paid them this year precisely, that we have bought to pay them to the length of the year and that today, I can tell you that they're all paid. Therefore, three months of progress to the compromise that we had of a measure that was not ours; therefore, as in debt and as we carry from Generality, we took it, prioritizing it over many other measures. Let's keep talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.5.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Next, has the words of Congressman Fernando Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.6.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, he gave me a very soft speech, but not a concrete compromise. And I asked him about the universal benefit for the children in charge, for the income for the schools under the assumption. If not, I have asked the economic vice president, economic advisor, or ask them that you also impose between the government and impose the demands of these parties. Look, Counselor, do you see that he did well to make inquiries? We present an inquiry into family policies and that same morning you come out to announce policy measures to support families. We will have to do one every week, or two weeks, because we see that this stimulates their creativity and their commitment to the needs of Catalans. And, look, we've got plenty of plans! It's just that I don't know if this is a convergent heritage, if this is a thing of the five-year traditions of the Catalan left, I don't know exactly where to see it, but in Catalonia, I, ever since I've been here, I just hear about family plans, childhood plans, programs, pacts... And come talk and come make pacts and come... I remember the pact of childhood, four years talking about it; clear, and while the assumptions are not..., "no, because we are making the pact. Listen to me, I told the Councilwoman Munté: "I stop making pacts and taking concrete measures, and if they are wrong, they are wrong, but it is better to err and correct after not being giving turns on these questions, three, four, five years, to reach a consensus that may be impossible. About the SOAFs. I think it's a very good initiative and I celebrate enlargement. I'm asking you to post for them, counselor, as it seems they're fading, right? There are many models. For example, in Germany, the State makes available to families, say, a space with some specialist technicians, and they themselves, then – this, some will like – self-management. Families, with their needs, explain what they want, what they need and, from them, how they organize what they need and help themselves with the care of the children, the great, etcetera. They can do a lot of things, but they do, they move on, we give tools to families. I also want to ask you why we do not try, at one time, that social benefits stop being a pitiful and sad mermaid of families to: « here they give me one; here, another; here... ; a family tutor who can guide them, who can explain to them what rights they have, what they need, what benefits they can ask for, who can help them. And lastly, we're talking a little bit about the tax issue – we're talking a little bit about the tax issue – and we're talking, for example, in comparison to another community that has a problem..., say, a fiscal situation that looks like Catalan, because I'm not interested in you..., that I already know, that will do it, but don't come out and say, "No, what we need is more money, because you steal from us. And that, in the mouth of a union spokesman. "We don't want the money for the others, we want to stay - we want to stay. So, on the tax issue we have approved a tax reform in the family perspective. What does Catalunya do? Catalonia is a deduction of one hundred and fifty euros per birth. Another community, with a fiscal situation similar to the Catalan one, Comunidad de Madrid: between six hundred and nine hundred euros per birth, bonus also of nine hundred euros when a family acull majors of sixty-five years, 15_percent of improvement of school expenses and 10_percent of the study of languages. This is something that is in our hands, which depends on us, which depends on the omnipotent councillor, and, therefore, this cannot be said to be Madrid's fault, depending on its priorities, depending on what they want. So, please, stop scanning families and, in turn, help the Catalan middle classes, who are the ones who benefit from these measures. Of the others I've talked about before are the lower ones: universal performance per child, etc. But these deviations serve mainly for the Catalan middle classes. Finally, he will advise you: can any compromises give us today about these questions or just a speech of good intentions? If not, we'll see when I bring the assumptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.7.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. There's the word "Treball Advisor", "Social Afers" and "Families," Ms. Pain Bassa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.8.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is good that you ask me to compromise when since 2011 the PP – in Madrid, which is different – has left the game for disabled people to zero, for specific programs for women, for programmes to prevent child abuse, for young people, for the gathering and integration of immigrants. All this is families, too, and social needs. When you talk... [[Greetings.]] I also like that you are talking about pensions, because today we are getting the same, and I think it is true that you are presenting to Brussels the pension programme, which will remain of the pensions, that it will not be left entirely with a reserve fund in which there were 66,000_million euros when they took it, 13,000 this year, and that we are now at zero, and therefore they are in deficit. Therefore, it is also true that, in pensions, therefore, it is necessary to be able to make the policies of here. Finally, I said to my son: Of the 200_million you said, 176 we paid them this year; so, look, if there was no debt, we could have put them down. What do you do, compromise? And so, I can say: programmes to support families at risk of poverty, childhood and youth, among the most affected groups, an investment of 83,8_million euros, with an increase of 4,8_million euros respect for the year 2015; in the activities of the latter, which I have already said, an increase of 1_million euros respect for 2015; the norm-six centres open, important for families having problems and that, therefore, they need, with the two or three countries, with an increase of money, also accompanied by sure; the theme of cooperation with social entities, 3,7_million euros to subsidize all those entities that are active in caring for families in situations of social vulnerability, especially. The year..., this year there are one hundred and fourteen entities, with a presumption of 3.7_million; the year passed, with the same presumption, seventy-two entities, with 2.5_million. I am no longer talking about poor energy, the one we have increased, or the benefits of housing for vulnerable families, which increases to 94,4_million what has been donated from the Department of Social Affairs and Families. So, in families, all the compromise there is, all the compromise as in the department, all the compromise as in the government... And I'll keep talking about benefits. Economic benefits by birth, adoption or adoption at the income level of the family unit were published a week ago; therefore, they can enter it and you will see exactly the amounts and what there is. I've told you the 171 million that affect 372,000 families. And, in addition, between the programme contract, where there has been an important endowment of money, if you look at the numbers exactly, it will give you that 4,75_million euros are precisely destined for poor families. Therefore, "the families mean all the policies that surround it; a plan of families agreed with all the entities, agreed with all of us, so that we do not think to throw solos, and that this becomes a law of families when this plan is well done. We take over the families; the SOAFs are the important tip, you have said it; they are not from here, we have copied them from other countries of Europe, where the results are spectacular, and we believe that this is where we must put all our efforts. Therefore, compromise, everything: compromise with education, compromise with sanitation, compromise with the family as the system around all children and adolescents, as the nuclear system of a fairer and more equitable society. Compromise, all in the world, the government, not only in families, but with families. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.9.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Inquiries to the Government on fiscal policy]] [[300-00087/11]] The second item on the agenda is the question to the Government on fiscal policy presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Ms. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.10.0	Thank you, President; good afternoon. Vice-President, Counsellor, Members and Members..., today the Socialist Group, Vice-President, wants to ask him about fiscal policy. And they also have questions that come from civil society and that question us as political groups and representatives of the people in relation to which model of fiscal policy we want in our country. We believe that the tax policy model also marks which model of country we want and which society we want to build. Therefore, it is a very important element, you know that we have dealt with it many times in this chamber, but we will continue to insist, because we believe that what this government has to do is to change its fiscal policy, which is almost possible since the year 2000, with small, very small – very small – changes from six years ago. And he said that we believe that this change, this change in fiscal policy, because, unfortunately, after many years of economic crisis, we are following with a high degree of maturity, inequality, poverty; unfortunately, we are living phenomena, like impoverished workers, houses without entrances, people who do not have the least basic services covered... Therefore, a situation where we really... that we should do is try to attack it in a clear and decisive way to resolve it. We don't think they're doing too much, and in turn we think that the Generality, the Administration, the public service, have instruments to attack these phenomena and these problems that they were talking about before. And they have them twofold: one, from spending policy, clearly – to social policies, educational policies, health care, which they are fighting against this inequality, obviously – but after the income policy, and in this sense, therefore, how to collect more tickets to be able to face these spending policies. And here's a margin for the generality? We believe that it does, because it has taxes, taxes given, has taxes, has public prices, that is, it has the capacity to be able to enter more. And I don't think anyone can deny that, because I think it's a very obvious reality. We've already... not just in this legislature, in other legislatures, we've already told them that what it is to change this tax policy to collect more tickets and distribute them better, distribute them better to make a system more just and fairer, right? A fiscal system that must be progressive and that must attempt to demand a greater effort from those who have the most. We believe that since the beginning of the crisis, we have only called for fiscal efforts on those who have less, on the most vulnerable people. And in these moments a person with a few and a few medium tickets pays a lot more, as a percentage, than a person who has a lot more wealth and wealth. Therefore, this should be balanced, we need to demand a greater effort from those who generate and have wealth and assets, and not so much to the returns of the work, which are now being supported, basically, by the high fiscal pressure in this country, not only in Catalonia, but also in Spain. Therefore, we believe that this is basic and that it is necessary, in a decisive way, to modify this fiscal policy. And he said not to give it to us alone, but to tell civil society as well. And now many days ago, the Poor Zero platform was celebrating a day when there were different jails. One of them was fiscal policy, and here they were just talking about this: that we change, that we modify this system. In fact, they already made a manifesto in 2015 in which they called on the government to make changes in fiscal policy, in the increase of some taxes. They say, and I can read it in the 2016 manifesto, that there have been limited, timid and at all insufficient advances, and what it takes is to be braver and take some measures already, definitively, in fiscal policy. And they make four points very clear about where they think tax policy should go. And I have to say that most of their proposals, not to say the cent, are in many resolution proposals that we have put forward some groups in the chamber. So let's not just call it ours, from the Socialist Group, but it is true that at this point in time a large number of the social entities in this country have been discussing it at length. To us, frankly, what we would like, Vice-President, is for you to tell us if you will bring us a different proposal when you present the assumptions, if there will be a different proposal of fiscal policy in the proper assumptions. That's what we'd like to see, because in 2016 there wasn't, there wasn't a new fiscal policy, don't bring back those who have the most efforts. So, what we'd like is... if in your own presuppositions you will. And I ask him, first of all, because it is an inquiry that I also believe civil society is doing for us, but because in the last few votes in the general policy debate, in those proposals for a resolution on fiscal policy, together for the Yes has made some strange votes, we might say. Resolution proposals submitted for Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the PSC were rejected for Junts for the Yes, for Ciutadans and for the Popular Party; the CUP collected them. And the motion for a resolution presented by the CUP, was picked up by the PSC, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, and the Government, the group that supports the Government, Ciutadans and the PP rejected it. It is to say that you seem that in fiscal policy you are on the side of the PP and Ciutadans clearly; you are making it to the last votes that appear and come in this Parliament. And, clearly, there is another block, I believe, on the left, in which we clearly defend a line in fiscal policy; with nuances, I believe, but I believe that the last votes have clearly shown who these two blocks are. And we're surprised, because there's a party together for Yes, which is Republican Left, and that, besides, you're leading, so, as soon as you're getting over some flu, I guess to advance in the process, when what we want to be..., you've got skills today and you can make changes today, do them, and when you have an independent country and an independent state, listen to me, you'll do whatever you want, or you'll continue to do it; but that's indispensable to do it now. And we are surprised that you are aligned with the People's Party and Citizens in fiscal policy, and have done so continuously. Now, it's true, we have some announcements from President Puigdemont, who says there's going to be a big fortune tax. Well, if there is, then we'll discuss it. But we wouldn't like this: we'd like to change the inheritance tax, the property tax, the IRPF's autonomic tram, which has a very important margin. Professor Vilalta told us, on this day and in the documents that later brought us, that in one of the taxes where there is more room to collect more tickets is on the IRPF's autonomous tram; but much more than in succession. So, listen, why can't we work on this? In fact, I was already asking, somehow, the CUP, when you guys did the presupposition debate of the year 2016. Why don't we just set it up? In fact... I will now say one thing that the UPC can say to me: "Listen, you don't know, don't you? But I would like to remind all the Members who are here, but above all that of the UPC, that in the debate on poverty that we did in March we approved, between one of its points, one that said: "The Parliament urges the Government – March month, eh? –"to study the application of new fiscal figures and to improve existing ones, such as the inheritance tax, assets, autonomic tram of the IRPF, among others, that allow to increase the level of entrances and guarantee in a more progressive tax system. I ask: from March to now, have we studied anything? Have we analyzed anything? Will you come up with some assumptions where we will actually see the realization of this analysis, of this study, of this better of the revenue for the modification of taxes? Because that was approved by Parliament. It is of those things that... it is true that in the end this Parliament has the importance it has, because we approve many things and the government does not complete them. But in any case, it seems to me that this is one of the points that you should have worked on, as a minimum of work, and brought us – and I hope that you will do so on the assumption – another proposal for fiscal policy that so many of us have been asking for so long. So, President..., Vice President, what we would ask you is: where are you? Are we in fiscal policy? , if they continue to demand support from the People's Party, which has saved them some proposals for resolution in public education or in universities, also in fiscal policy, or if you finally impose a little of its criteria and aim to make a fiscal policy a little – a little – different, which allows us to absolve more entrances and make social policies that fight and diminish inequalities in this country. We've listened many times in this room that Catalonia is one of the most tax-paying countries. In fact, we have heard, at last, that it is the country that pays the most taxes in the world. I remember Congressman Coto, who gave it here very often. And sometimes I find it missing, huh? He said a few things... And he said that. But that's what President Puigdemont said, too. And, of course, when a look at the generality's data, huh? , and from the State you see that, man, we do have a higher fiscal pressure, it is true, than the rest of the Spanish State; but very much under most European countries, in fact we are under the middle of the Europe of the twenty-night. It is to say that we still have a capacity to grow... We are here asking for more tax efforts; that for this reason we say: "Home, we change the tax system because it is more progressive and, therefore, listen, that it pays more for the one who has more, than it is what is happening at these times. So, Vice President, I would ask you: where are you? What assumptions are you going to bring us here? With what fiscal policy? If you really think about getting more tickets... Because there's margin – there's margin – I think it seems to me that at the last debate on measures we made in 2014, I said to him: "There's margin. It seems that you, therefore, do not see it that way or do not believe it that way, because from time to time more tickets for modification of taxes, taxes or taxes, we have not seen. I'll follow up later, but I'd love to hear what his capture is for that he's doing to such an important and powerful subject so that he can advance in the fight against inequalities. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.11.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the Vice President of the Government, Counsellor of Economy and History, Mr Oriol Junqueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.12.0	Good afternoon to everyone. Thank you, President. How can you imagine frisso to answer this question from the honourable Member Romero; always very profitable, very useful questions about a very, very, very relevant question. Even so, I can't – and I will quickly make up for it, let's say – make some reference to the previous question, because I understand that in good measure it was directed directly at me, let's say it, and therefore I feel a little obliged also to answer some of the considerations made by the deputy of the People's Party, with which they always unite so many things; each time we intervene we share a good part of the diagnoses – often not of the receipts – but let's map something. You said: "Between the individual and the State, there are realities of community character. I'm celebrating it, because we believe it too. And you were talking about the families, you were talking about the local communities, you were talking about the educational environment... I was celebrating everything, because, in fact, as Mrs Bassa explained, and you yourself recognized, there have been governments in this country that have devoted a lot of effort to the family environment, to the area of the education environment... There are many institutions, many together, for example, that continue to devote a lot of effort to the education environment. And, therefore, I am pleased that we agree on this. Also, you asked for concrete things, facts; Mrs. Romero also asked for concrete things... So, look, the first of the concrete things is to pay exactly all the help to families who had been hanging out for many years, years in which you had given support to the Government – "you, I mean the People's Party – and that, on the other hand, those help had not been paid for. Well, fortunately now, that's what it is. So, I'm glad you recognize our previous, previous, current... And, in any case, listen, all the predisposition to work also in the future in these areas that you cited, in these areas of community character that you cited. And now, quickly and with a certain speed to compensate for these two minutes devoted to the previous inquiry, some considerations in relation to the intervention of the Member of Parliament Romero. From the outset we also say that we share a good part of the diagnosis and that we could insist on questions that I am sure that in this room have been dealt with, but that not because of the fact that it has been dealt with at other times is people getting over it now, too, isn't it? And, indeed, one of the great problems facing our society that has clearly accentuated with the economic crisis is the increase in inequalities in the distribution of income and wealth, certainly. The difference between the income of the richest and poorest citizens has not stopped growing, at least, from the 1990s; therefore, it is evidence. And this evidence shows that, moreover, with the crisis has widened; therefore, this poor distribution, this distribution every time more unequal of the income, therefore, goes from the moon and has accentuated with the crisis that we live, that we have experienced – at least we have experienced. 10_percent of the higher-income lllars are recovering income levels or exceeding pre-crisis income levels, and 10_percent, at least, of the low-income families continue much below pre-crisis pre-crisis income levels, so much so that the rate of twilight continues to be very high– you also make reference–, as well as by reducing nominal wages and real wages. In fact, according to the OECD, the Spanish State, between 2007 and 2010 – between 2007 and 2010 – was the second country where inequality in primary income grew the most. Between 2007 and 2010, the Spanish State was the second state in the world in which inequality in primary income grew the most, i.e., the one that arises directly from market relations, wages, etc. And the State also increased inequality by making it available. Between 2007 and 2010; I remember these dates not by re, simply because I seem to remember them. It was the OECD State that further increased inequality in disposable income, i.e., the one that arises after the intervention of the public sector by means of taxes, direct transfers, universal provision of public services, etc. It is obvious that before this situation it can take action, and that these measures take them, surely, all the administrations, especially those that have more direct powers over the areas that surround them, in income, in income taxes, etc. Therefore, yes, the administrations must intervene, certainly; they must intervene all, surely, and they must intervene those who have the most skills in every area, too. Certainly, you made a brief reference to the fact that there have been coincidences in some votes, I hope the Socialist Party does not approve the PP's fiscal policy allow the investiture of Mr Rajoy – I'm sure it won't be that way, eh? I mean, I have no doubt it won't be like this. Therefore, can I intervene in these areas? I'm sure it is. Moreover, the redistributive power of taxes, from the principles of the 21st century, from around the year 2000, has decreased. Each time, therefore, the combined tax system in OECD countries has less ability to redistribute income. It happens especially in the case of the Spanish State, and, therefore, unfortunately it also passes in great measure to Catalonia, but it passes in the conjunction of the OECD round. Is the tax pressure high or low? And this is an area in which there are various claims and contradictions. In terms of GDP, fiscal pressure is low in terms of GDP compared to our European environment. The fiscal pressure in terms of GDP, in the case of the Spanish State is 34_percent– the fiscal pressure in terms of GDP is 34_percent of GDP. In European terms, it's low, it's under the middle. You said it, and you said it very well. Indeed, behind the Spanish state, with less GDP, there is only Estonia, Poland, Japan, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Lithuania, Latvia, Ireland and Romania. And in the other extreme we have, in the first place France, and immediately after Denmark, Belgium, Finland. Very developed, highly developed, and, in some cases, at least in some of these cases, with very competitive economies. Now, is the tax pressure expressed in tax types high or low? You're tall. Actually, you're tall. So you're right when you say: is the fiscal pressure in terms of GDP compared to Europe low? Yeah, you're right. And, in fact, we... it's not that we give it to her today, we've always given it to her and we've always said so, in this respect we agree. Is the tax pressure expressed in tax types high or low? Tall. And as explained by this apparent paradox between a very high type and a pressure in terms of GDP very, very low, in European terms, compared to Europe. It is explained by two fundamental elements, one of absolute centrality, which is tax fraud. The tax system in the Spanish State is a huge gruesome formatting, or a small gruesome formatting with huge holes, and with an environment that seeks to take care of their respective holes within the formatting. And another is the tax benefits. There are fiscal benefit policies that, for example, help explain why in 2014 there was a type of corporate tax of 30_per_cent, and, in change, a fiscal effort on the part of large companies theoretically subject to a type of 30_per_cent, which amounted to less than 7_per_cent. Therefore, can we take action in all these areas? Yeah. Then, when you came back to ask me, why, in fact, I think you answered the question a little bit, but when I come back to ask myself, I will answer it with great pleasure. I have already advanced, however, that we are talking about assumptions in the debate on assumptions. Therefore, today we will do..., I will answer it on fiscal matters, on fiscal proposals, etc.; on assumptions we will talk about in the debate of assumptions, if it is the chamber that is well that there is, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.13.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Next, there's the word "Mrs. Alicia Romero."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.14.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Junqueras, you didn't want to answer me because you don't know what to answer me. [[relays]] , because you don't have to work with the CUP, agreed with the CUP, granted with the CUP, and also, surely, they have given it, agreed, worked with the two matches that conform Together for the Yes, which is Convergence and Esquerra – forgiveness, Democratic Party of Catalonia. Do not tell me that I have not answered the question; I have told you about the assumptions and the law of measures, that is where we are talking about fiscal policy, but, forgive me, my group also has the right to ask about what it believes. And fiscal policy is so important that we want to ask him why, maybe before we bring the law of supposition and the law of measures, I have reviewed it yet again. He didn't want to answer us, he gave us many more data, he made a master class here about macroeconomics, economics... perfect, enchanted, but that's not what we're asking him. What we want to ask is whether you will change this government's fiscal policy; whether you will come here with concrete proposals that will actually change fiscal policy and the tax system so that it is more just and more progressive. That's what we're asking. How do we get this done? Listen to me. The inheritance tax: the year 2014 we entered 348_million euros; it will modify it so that we would add 700 or 800? Concrete. Property tax: Will you modify it so that we enter more than we entered the year 2014-2015? Will you change the IRPF's autonomous type? Because, listen to me, you make them that go from 16,000, 20,000, 30,000_euros to Catalonia have the highest types of all the state; from 16,000 to 30,000, not those that earn 120,000. So, those who have the highest types of the whole state are those of Catalonia, of which they go from 16,000 to 30,000. And the first stretch we have in Catalonia is the highest in the whole state, too. We have it in a 12_per_cent, when other communities, like Madrid – PP – and Balears – left – they have it at 9.5. I mean, what do we have that kind of guy? Yeah, make them lower, and middle classes. It's what we need to change, it's what we want, it's what we want, it's what they have most, and you don't want to change it. So, go here, explain to us..., not to end saying that it's not possible because surely you haven't given your government much tension. But, listen to me, you don't seem to want to answer any concrete questions I'm asking you. Tax benefits: there are €10,500_million in tax benefits, which, in addition, we could already change because of 'tax benefits, lost– lost', because we want to say that we will stop charging €10,500_million. That I do not say that some tax benefits are not to be maintained, but those that are returned, those that benefit from the highest tickets, make them higher, we could eliminate them. In fact, we approved a motion for a resolution that the government would consider what were these return tax benefits to eliminate them. Where's this study? Where's this analysis? It's just that we'd love to see it. Is it that, listen to me, if there are people who are not benefiting and who are not touching it, and it turns out that it is people who have made higher, who are not making efforts, we cannot eliminate these tax benefits and that in accounts of 10,500_million euros of loss in having 8,000? Go on, that's what seems to me to be very easy to answer. You'll change, change the tax benefits because the most regresses disappear in your own assumptions, in your own actions...? That's what I'm asking you. In the fight against the fraud I no longer want to pose. We also approved a motion for a resolution that you would work with the tax agency and answered me with a check on the compliment, which you were working very hard with the Spanish Tax Agency. I hope that's the way it is, and that the tickets for fraud are increasing, because in the last few days we have diminished. And then, much more concrete things, look if it's easy: on tax evasion issues and tax havens, will the Generality continue to hire companies that hold their own in tax havens that evade tickets? Is that what he's gonna do, yes or no? It's what we'd like, that you don't hire companies that escape tax. This is what we would like you to challenge us; it is very concrete. Will the government change the fiscal policy it has implemented since 2010, or not? You'll tell me, "Well, I've been there for a year. Well, so... will the government change the fiscal policy that we had, from now on, that we had in the past year? That's what we'd like you to tell us, and if you change all these taxes, and if you look at the tax benefits. That's what we want to know, Mr. Junqueras. And something else already, going through the tangent like that, say, huh? Says you: « I hope the Socialists do not reap the fiscal policy of the People's Party. The PSC will vote that no, that's what I'm saying, and like I'm from the PSC, in my notebook saying "PSC," so I'm saying that. And the other one I'm saying is... [[Rialles.]] Well, listen, you guys are in a fight. What I'm saying to you is that I also laughed a lot in March when you voted' not against Pedro Sánchez, and yes to the fact that there are second elections... [[some applause]] And, therefore, Rajoy has a better result. Yeah, that's what you guys did: vote... [[Funnel veils]] , you..., "oh, and we want to vote, yes, I also wanted to vote, yes. I..., and my representatives voted « yes to Pedro Sánchez, who was « yes to a government of change. On the other hand, you voted that "no, so I understand that "yes to Rajoy". So they don't come here to give us lessons, because, the truth is, if we're where we are, in part, it's because of those who didn't want to give shelter to a government of change, to a government of the left. Thank you. [[Voice remorse and some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.15.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The vice president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.16.0	It's just that I don't see Mrs. Alicia Romero. Now yes – now yes. No, if..., if the responsibility that Mr. Pedro Sánchez is not a candidate for the Spanish Government or if he is not secretary general of the Socialist Party is Republican Left or is of..., go, if the assumptions and fiscal assumptions make him with the same level of precision, unfortunately, let's say it. Listen, everyone's responsible for what's going on at home, and I'm sure you'll do as well as you'll know. You ask me concrete things, for example, imposing estates. The inheritance tax, the model that there was..., those 900_millions of recapitation of 2008 had a very severe impact on the country's middle yields. The reform which was subsequently carried out was, from my point of view, a clearly inadequate reform. The reform, which is now in force, seems to me to be in an appropriate place and to respond to a broad consensus in our society and in most of the Members of this House. Therefore, it is a concrete answer. With respect to the estate tax. Attention, because what can't be done is to judge our decisions or our responsibilities as a function of responsibilities that are actually someone else's. I remind you that, a few days ago, Mr. García Albiol from this Faristol announced the suppression of the estate tax, okay? Therefore, if you say to me: "Look, take advantage of the type of asset tax. We may be pushing it a lot, but if you upgrade it to a hundred per cent, the Spanish government, the recap will be zero. Therefore, we never forget that the responsibilities that we have are only those that we have. This is why we want to keep them all, because we want to be responsible for..., when you say to us: "Take the asset tax. Listen, the estate tax, if you raise it to the cent_per_cent– if you raise it to the cent_per_cent– and you raise it... – a government that has held the investiture of the Socialist Party, or not – let's just say, if you raise it to the cent_per_cent, the recap will be zero. It's here. Now, then it turns out that the PP, which has placed us all folded into a taxed Dragon Khan, announces here that the deletion and then is compromised by writing with Europe that will not only not delete it, but will expand it. Plus, it'll expand the IBI. And the IBI, what does it weigh? Engraving, phonetically, patrimony. Therefore, we have a government of the Spanish State with a deeply irresponsible attitude, that one day it announces something and the debt does exactly the counter, the same way that one day it announces that it will push or lower certain taxes, and, in fact, it ends up pushing them, or that it lowers the corporate tax, but then it doubles the corporate tax in a single exercise. Can you imagine that this kind of decision is being taken by us? Can you imagine this government being double taxed, as does the People's Party government with corporation tax? So, on the estate tax, I insist, old man, we can have some recap, because by so much that we increase the type if the bonus is of the cent_per_cent the recap will be zero. Then you say to me: "You are one year old. We're not wearing a year, okay? Not yet, let's bring a few new things... a little bit different. But, anyway, listen, in these new months have we made innovative tax proposals? Certainly, yes – yes –; the one that passes, that all the fiscal proposals..., or the vast majority of the fiscal proposals that we have made have fallen, not for this Parliament nor for this Government that has proposed to them, but for the Spanish Government through the Constitutional Court. And you're not perfectly aware. And then we find ourselves with what you say to us: "No, no, if that's what we already give them the reason. Now, now... but giving them the right, what do we have of these taxes that we have proposed and that someone has fallen for the way – Constitutional Court – for the indication of the government of the PP? So, zero. So, listen, okay, you give us the reason, we celebrate it very much, we are very happy that we give each other the reason, and the recaptancy that was going on is zero. So, what's the government doing? The government is proposing alternatives to these fallen taxes, and that's what we're gonna do, right there... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's what we're gonna do. You will not like it because it pleases you better not to do anything when a tax falls on us, but we will – we will – make proposals in this area. Now, I insist on the presupposition debate, or the presupposition debate, we'll do it when the presupposition debate comes in and we'll talk about it then. While, therefore, what you do know, and we are delighted that this is how we will continue to work so that this is the case, it is: fixing a tax on the production of electrical energy from nuclear power plants in the future, not from production, but from environmental protection in the face of the risks of radioactive contamination, an imposition of commercial establishments that have environmental effects... Therefore, using fiscal policy not only as a recap, but also as a correction element of those negative externalities in the media and social spheres. So, I'm sure they'll know a lot about their own days, about their own weeks, and about the whole thing, which is the presuppositional analysis, I insist, we'll talk about it in the presuppositional debate. Many thanks, as always, huh? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.17.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Inquiries to the Government on the Department of the Interior]] [[300-00088/11]] The third point of the order of the day is: inquiry to the Government on the Department of Interior, presented for the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Mireia Vehi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.18.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Good afternoon, Counselor. In 1975, the dictator died in bed, and in 1978, the regime that came up to us until today, a regime that was born out of the silence of athems of those who were suffering for if it became the dictatorship. By or by voluntarily, it is never clear fire or purge, nor to the courts, nor to the high spheres of the State, nor to the police. Still the same, each person followed his place, the structures were the same, but from the pacts of the Moncloa had arrived democracy without justice, no responsibilities, no reparations, and the memory of the murders, of the sinkings of the cruelest repression of the Franco dictatorship had to shut up, and the Law of Amnesty, before the Constitution, amnesty many of the police and agents of authority who had perpetrated the most horrific tortures of the dictatorship. Civil Guard, National Police, urban guards and army will continue to exist without assuming any breach of responsibility and without debugging any security. Nor will they do so to their greatest responsibility: let us remember that Fraga Iribarne also died in bed and was honored by the state. In Catalonia, already in the year 83, Jaume Curbet wrote, from the Directorate General of Citizen Security, that the police apparatus remains marked by a triple and archaic stigma that smiles at events in the deepest of its tradition: militarization, conservatism and centralism. No minimally sensible question should respect the correspondence between this police model and an intolerant, centralist and inquisitorial society. Today, however, thirty years later – more than thirty years later – it is important to assume that the reception was lacking in essential elements: memory and the fight against impunity for all the security bodies, and also for the Squad's Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. Because the country, when the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is restored, hoped that the police model would leave one of the defining elements of the security bodies to the dictatorship, impunity, and the certainty is that there are certain doubts about this issue. Impunity that goes from the hand of shame, from the dynamics of cover-up and of corporate silence, from the forms of functioning based on complicit compassion, from the violations of human rights stored in spite of the chambers of the commissariats, chambers, which must be said, that they cost a lot to pose and legitimize, because the visions that are opposed there are many. And we could deal with the debate of the police bodies, of the excessive dedication to the lesser crimes against the white glove crimes; we could talk about the militarization of public space as a way of transmitting security, of the logic of risk as to criteria that always end up chasing poor, because curiously the risk never falls over the Diagonal; of the dark side of public order when the struggle on the street intensifys, or of civic security as a liberal invention to maintain inequality in the name of order. But today we will focus on the need to bring impunity to light. And we will do so in three stages: truth, justice and reparation, as the essential reception to bring about impunity and violations of human rights on the part of the security bodies in our home. The photo of the truth to put against the strings to impunity. We come to talk about Ester Quintana, Juan Andrés Benítez, 4-F and so many others. Because when the commissaries of this country seem to be misguided, or this is the message that is given to the security guards when the councillor, the general direction, and the high bodies of the body cover up the violations of rights. It's this one at the tax receipt. Does anyone think that any of the other things that will work for the generality are covering up the negligence and violations of rights? Or do we make it different: they imagine a police force in which, when there is a single violation of rights, they are the agents first to signify it and to make it visible? "Truly, it means having public and independent mechanisms for reporting and controlling violations of human rights to the security body, mechanisms that can work inside the security body. "True means transparency in the figures and in the dead under police custody. "Truly, it means that the department has an obligation to investigate each of the rights violations that are being committed and that it cannot give up any one-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousands of police unions; certain unions that often act as the hard lobby for police policies in this country, that often have a policy of security on press wheels, and that often, instead of defending labor rights, they think about the suitability of electric guns, they deny that there have been agents of the Mobile Brigade when Ester Quintana is injured or a mob fan for Twitter when the Dead City document is issued because they consider that the image of the body is silent. Spend the second time: justice. Justicia understands from the vexingest sanctioning possible. Yes, today we come to talk about sanctions, because we know that a single violation of rights legitimizes the tempt against the lives of all. It is only right that the eight agents who assassinate Juan Andrés Benítez, condemned, in a firm sentence, the murder sentence, Mr. Counselor, are immediately brought together. We will file a complaint in conjunction with Article 24 of Chapter V of the Disciplinary Regime of the Police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra, which allows the Administration to take measures in parallel with the criminal proceedings. The department's response was negative, suggesting that justice has already resolved. We repeat that justice has solved murder, has solved murder, and that this is intolerable. It's just that you're investigating the sources that fired the rubber pilot that hurt Ester Quintana. Quite a lot of shields, actually. How can a judge say a verse, that counsel contradicts him, and that he does not investigate himself to the point? We're covering up certain agents who committed a crime. Another article in the disciplinary regime, Chapter III, 9, is clear: responsibility is also due to induction and cover-up. « The members of the Squad Coast have the obligation to communicate by writing to their immediate superior the facts that they know and that constitute faults or crimes, continues this article. And in Quintana's case, it's obvious that evidence is hidden. But, other times, those same police unions, those same ones that denied aggression and had to be rectified publicly, and other times the councillor gave in. Until when, Mr. Counselor? It's just that when there are allegations of violations of rights, the consulting office investigates with utmost diligence, because in the matter of human rights all resources and all efficiency are scarce. And let's go to the third stage: repair. Reparation as a measure of dignity of all victims, and we are aware that in some cases repairs have been made. You can talk about Mrs. Ester Quintana or Mr. Nicola Tanno. They are recognized in part by pain and neglect, but we understand repair as a step further; it is not only economic compensation, but it is zero tolerance to any right-wing violation, for example, it is the fact that the council is able to identify and sanction each of the right-wing violations that are committed in the safety nets. Reparation as the phonental question in the construction of truth and justice, as the indispensable piece for the dick. We wanted to repair in the case of Juan Andrés Benítez and in the case of 4-F. We want the council to publicly recognize the mistreatments, which I assume are intolerable, which penalize the agents who took them to term. And we take advantage to remember that yesterday Patricia Heras would have been forty-one years old. We want to make amends, too, in the case of the eleven of the Raval, that it is apologizing to the people who suffer the ration of persecution and Islamophobia. We want to make amends in cases of dead persons in custody. We want to repair as the phone element to restore memory; memory against impunity. And it's not a question of revenge, nor is it an obsession with the CUP, as some must be thinking, to disauthorize police bodies. It's a question of minimums, a basic concept of restorative justice. An essential element for a democratic society and a state of law. He respects the fundamental principles of life and dignity, the struggle against impunity, the equality of rights and conditions and the rebuff of any abuse of power. Because when exceptionality is the norm in security policies, violations of rights become legitimate to ensure order. And here, as you can imagine, they'll find us face to face, whether it's Plaça Catalunya, Gràcia or October 12th with the anti-feixers. And, finally, and quoting Mr. Brandt..., I said that allowing injustice is supposed to open the way to all who follow. That's what this interview was about today, Counselor. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.19.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr.Jordi Jané.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.20.0	Madam, the President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Vehi, this question to the Government about the Department of the Interior must enable us, in your parliamentary office, to clarify some aspects that are sometimes intended to spread among the communication media, that there may be..., at last, to have a response on the part of many opinionators, and that I can honestly not admit, because I cannot admit in any case, Mrs Vehi – in any case – that from the Department of the Interior it is promoting impunity or that, in some way, it is practicing omerty or covering up any crime. Because the Department of the Interior has the task of the citizenry to pursue criminal acts. And, therefore, if anything we can't afford, and this counselor will never, it's to cover up, cover up, or, somehow, he doesn't have the answer he needs, according to the legal order, any injury to a phone book. And, therefore, you began your intervention by remembering a darker time, a time when in reality, under a Francoist rule, the actions came in a different way. By fate we have established a democratic regime in Catalonia with a democratic police force, with a police force that respects the rights of the people, with a police force – the police force of the Generalitat, the Mosso d'Esquadra – which acts rigorously, professionally, with civil service and from the very near. Therefore, he will not find this adviser in any other action that does not follow the more scrupulous defense of the freedoms of the citizenry, of the rights of speech, and also of those who intervene very and very actively to make it possible. Last year, in actions of civil security in Catalonia, the Mosso d'Esquadra intervened in 664,000 actions in the street, in our municipalities, in each of our comarques– 664,000 –; of these... – that would be a half of more than 1,800 every day –, obviously, in an exceptional case, in exceptional cases, an inappropriate action can be given, I admit; but what I do not admit is that it is not pure when it is a gift. It can be given, because, obviously, in any collection... – we are talking about 664,000 street performances in a year – that there may be some fact that we would all agree that we did not like each other, that when we see some actions we may agree to say that they have not been adequate, obviously. That's why there's a division of internal matters that tries to clear up any responsibility, any complaint that goes up. And that is why there is, as it cannot otherwise be, a judicial power which has as its mission, when facts come to be reported in the judicial sphere, to dictate the correspondents' sentences. So, I, who have this impunity, who have this cover-up, can't admit it. And if you tell me a case in which I could cover up, from the Interior Department, a police action that is not appropriate, read me, because I'm not aware of it, because I wouldn't tolerate it. Because here it's not a question of seeing if we leave it covered because it doesn't know. No, no... If the best tool we have is to give knowledge of each subject, precisely, to reach this conclusion: that in a vast majority, in a overwhelming majority of the subjects, they do well their pocket and, obviously, the fan in a context that we have given ourselves in this Parliament: a democratic country context. That this Parliament, as it cannot otherwise be, must control the performance of all the public powers and also, obviously, of the Police of the Generality, of the Squadron Mosses, as of any other emergences. And so, we're here to give it to you when it comes to anything. But I cannot accept – I repeat, Mrs Vehi – that we should be told to cover it up, to leave it unpunished. A concrete case that you mentioned to me..., and I think it's a case that when we knew the sentence, when we read the sentence, when we read the proven facts..., obviously we're talking about a case that deserved a reaction. And the reaction has already been, with a feeling. We're talking about the Benítez case. There was a feeling of compliance, which will please us more or less, but what you can't say is that those agents that you're asking me to leave and do outside the body, you've asked me to: "Expulsion them out of the body. I have to tell you, in this concrete case, that there is a feeling, a firm feeling, a feeling that, in this concrete case, becomes heard..., the members of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra who are found guilty in the sentence, pass to judge them as public servants and as police. And, therefore, the toilet that does them in the criminal field is a toilet as they act like cops. And that's why the feeling, which is complete, and that separates them from the work, from the functions, from the self... – now they're not working or realizing any pay, they're complete the feeling. But this feeling, with the terms that it marks – it also marks prison sentences that all parties have agreed that it is different in three years–, or everything that marks the feeling, that it is being completed..., the feeling also enters into the protection of the legal good of wanting a police thing that acts in accordance with the rules of respect for the fundamental rights. And so the feeling comes in full and says to them: "You, for five years, cannot lie down at the place of events. You, for five years, can't patrol the street. You have to take a course in speech rights. And the sentence can declare the disqualification, which it could do, declares the temporary suspension. So now, after that, even though I wanted to, I can't manage..., he says: "Yes, but now you know what? Now they have made this feeling of conformity and by agreement, all the parties, but now the Councillor d'Interior... – or the Director General of the police, who accompanies us, who is the one who has the competence of it – « now knows what he will do, the Director General of the police? Now he's gonna kick them out of the body, when there's a feeling that it's five years old that they can't patrol. No, I'd have said that differently, wouldn't I? If for some time it could be admitted, from a legal point of view, that after the expulsion of the body, obviously, there is no agreement a feeling of conformity that establishes, in this case concretely, that for five years they cannot patrol, that they must take a course of human rights... I would not feel like doing all this if they are to expel themselves from the body. Therefore, the object of the judgment, in this case, agreed between the parties, was another. I, in every way, wanted to advise myself, from this point of view, that this feeling should be made known once. And the truth is that I have a report from the Police Directorate General, from the Legal Servants, a report that any lawyer that the law sees that it is not possible to do anything other than what the Police Directorate General has done. And if I did something else, or ordered the director to do something else, it would be prevaricating. Because if I have a report that legally justifies me that I have to act that way, I can't act that way. Now, I'll tell you another thing: it's true that from each case we have to learn, from each case we have to learn lessons from the future, and from each case we should not, and it would be our will, preventive measures because it is not given in a future, not only the penal sanction, that has followed; not only, therefore, all the penalties that have been imposed with a firm feeling; no. I..., accompany myself to the rostrum, the director of the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia, Mrs. Anabel Marcos, and I have made a charge, a concrete charge: at these times, at the Institute of Public Security there is already a course of basic police training, for police, with specific hours in human rights, ethics, specific hours in diversity, around... I make the charge, I have made the charge that every time there is a case of police misconduct with a firm feeling, this case is incorporated – so that in many cases where there is an indepth study is the method of the case –, it studies and analyses the police performance in each case when it is done properly. Because, also..., one way is repression, but another way is also what we all want, which is that the police and, obviously, the Police of the Generality, the Squadron Mosses, act as they do in the vast majority of occasions: professionally, rigorously and with respect to the rights of the people, of the citizens of Catalonia, to whom they serve, and have this vocation to serve now and in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then you have the word "Mireia Vehi".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.22.0	Thank you, President. I did not expect, Mr. Counselor, that it is limited to defending the body as if we were making a direct attack; I did not expect that it is placed to defend the detail..., for us, in our perspective, things quite indefensible. We have been making an approach to it, we are making a model approach; we are making an integral approach, from the perspective of human rights applied to the department and to the police, and what we hope is that from the advice, and taking its words, we take security policies with respect to human rights; but not just as the letter in a security plan, but as measures are applied. That is why we are sure that the councillor and the deputies of Junts per el Si will vote in favour of the proposal of an independent mechanism of follow-up to every violation of rights that there is to the police bodies of our home, if it is that from the council there is the real will to apply an integral model, in terms of security, that respects human rights. Still, of cases of violations of rights and of cases where there has been impunity, we have a long list. We don't have much time – I have three minutes of forty – so I'm going to focus on two that we seem to have enough meanings, or that have common elements of everything that I was trying to move. Yesterday we had a trial, there was a trial of an anti-fessist activist who suffered an attack on October 12, 2012; an attack that caused him to lose partially the sight of an eye and this one denounced us. Here, for a band, the argument of the cos lawyers is that they can't identify the agents who perpetrated the assault. Another time the same argument we have with Ester Quintana – another time. And the other central element of everything that we've been trying to explain is that he's the one who has to prove that he's suffered an assault and he's the one who has to make eternal judicial appeals to prove that two agents of the body have assaulted him. Why do you always have to be the attackers who have to prove it? Why is the council not active in violations of rights? Doesn't anyone see it? Why? This is impunity; impunity is that you always have to prove the assaults. Impunity is that if you have time, patience and silence, in the end... and you have a little trace and a little luck, you can end up demonstrating, you can end up in a jutjat squad moss cos agents. And when you get them sitting, alerting, because it can't prove who the attackers are or pass a series of circumstances: suddenly there's no evidence, etc. For us, this is unpunished. And we understand that this case is sufficiently represented. And it was yesterday. And the other issue is the case of Ester Quintana, which is that it is also sufficiently represented. Why haven't we identified the agents who shot the rubber pilots? Why? Let someone explain it to us, because it's that I don't..., I mean... the only thing that can be happening here is that there are people who don't tell the truth. Why don't the agents who were there say who it was? Why isn't the councilman's feeling active? What's going on here? And it's a case that... there's been resources here, there's been a spectacular media show. The whole country recognizes that this cannot be done; even you have agreed to ban rubber drivers. Why haven't we identified the agents who hurt her, Ester Quintana? Somebody answer us. And then we can do great headlines about respect for human rights and about the will of the council, but understand that we feel strange; say so, that fish do not fit. And by the end, because I have one minute left, about the Benítez case. Before I mentioned the articles in the Code of the disciplinary regime of the body, and the same rule says that for so much as there is a firm feeling, the councillor can, say, throw sanctions. And in this case, we understand that the feeling is one, it's the result of certain circumstances, but that the council has an obligation to take exemplary action; more than just because it was a murder, and that's very difficult. And besides, you're telling us that the agents are five years away from the body and that they can't go back to the place and that they're going to take a course of human rights. A course in human rights, counselor? That's what I did at the university; so, for free, let's say. A human rights course? And then he also said that, in case there is... when there are firm feelings you will incorporate them into the course. Do you know what it costs that there are firm feelings that accuse the agents of Mossos d'Esquadra, for all the reasons he explained to him before? Very much. What will happen in this course? I was running out of time and I can't say anything else, but we understand that the advice is not just that it's not certain that it can't be done, but that it has the obligation, because that's why we talk about fighting impunity and reparation, because it didn't just compensate, it didn't just get determined, firm feelings, but it did have zero tolerance, it did have an active attitude, it went from the fact that, if we want a democratic police, there must be zero tolerance, at the millimeter, to violations of human rights. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.23.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Jordi Jané.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.24.0	Thank you, Madam President. Lady Vehi, I admit the zero tolerance plantation. Besides, it's a matter of fact that when I was a congressman and I brought in some internal concerns, I always complained about it. Therefore, to me, this "is that there is no zero tolerance here, no; when there is a violation of rights to any city we cannot cover it up with any type of tolerance. That's my way of thinking. And I'll defend her here, and I'll defend her all over the place. So zero tolerance, yes. Now, do you respect the rules of the game? Also. And respect the rules of the game, you say to me: "It's five years, it's a course of human rights... It's that that's what you say the feeling, with the conformity of all parts: private accusation, popular accusation, prosecution...; all parts have established the terms of a feeling with some concrete feathers in the Benítez case, which is one of the cases that will be studied, because the report of facts is the report that, when we read it, we don't like anyone. And it has had a criminal consequence; it will be more intense or less, this will be in the opinion, but the feeling there is, is condemnation, is condemning itself and is being executed, and, therefore, more than going on to assess whether it should be more or less, here we cannot say that there has been impunity in any case. And even there were some precautionary measures and those people were already separated from patrolling from the first moment. But, I repeat, they are condemned and we must respect this feeling; a feeling that in this concrete case, for the identity between subject matter, fact and substance, there are cases in which the term "non bis principles" applies in the same case, and does not allow us – I am told by the legal reports – that in this case..., it does not allow double punishment, criminal and administrative, when already in the criminal field – when already in the criminal field – it is a matter of assessing the performance as police officers and, to the extent that it is considered an aggravating circumstance, at the time of setting the sentence, the fact that they were police officers. Therefore, I, this fact... would be a legal discussion, but the same reports that we have rejected were all in this direction. Model plantation: there is agreement, a model has to be planted; a model of democratic police in full 21st century. This is the model that applies the Squad's Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, which you actually said back from the rooms to the police stations... I have always been a supporter of maximum transparency. One day they asked me at a commission. I'm never against being able to set up cameras, because it can always be held back by the performance it's leading to. This is what must be in a democratic state, respect for freedom. And, therefore, this is what I'm going to find. In the case of Mrs. Ester Quintana. I've done it in this Parliament, I've done it all the ways I could and I'm back to doing it now: that was because of police action. And so, in the first place, beyond the feelings there were, in this case, to apologize and forgive the person who lost an eye, because it's a hard injury as a result of police action. Now, don't say it's covered, because I'll take it..., now I haven't brought it, but I can give it a copy of a writer sent from the Internal Affairs Division and from the disciplinary instruction that did the thing to the judge who knew it, saying: "The line of investigation points to one direction and what we consider points to another; they investigate this other line of action. The jutjat, which in the end we have to respect judicial action, did not consider it adient or necessary. But we have already pointed out, from the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, from Director Batlle, who accompanies us, a concrete writing saying: "Vaginate to this other direction, not to these agents who are accused, because the investigative line should be another. It didn't work out, but finally, the feeling, which we didn't dictate, was what it was. But don't say, too, that he wanted to store it, because I'm not aware of it. If not, as well as the Benítez case, as the Quintana case, I find myself when I arrived as a counselor, but obviously I asked for information about these, and wanted to know exactly what had happened. And so now he's also talking to me about a concrete case that's jutting itself, yesterday or today. I don't know him well enough, but I also need to: we follow a respectful point with the judgment and with which, following me as a judge, they ended up as proven or not; we don't always prejudge the version that could be countered to the Mosso d'Esquadra. I also ask for a bit of understanding of a police body that is giving a lot of if, that does a great job in favor of the citizenry..., it gives these more than 600,000 cases of actions in the street every year, and that, therefore, that obviously there will be concrete cases that will not please us, I will be the first to recognize it, the first to ask that on these learn from the mistakes in order to be able to build always a future better with, always, police actions suited to a democratic state and respectful of freedoms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.25.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about public policies respect the foods they embalter]] [[300-00089/11]] The fourth point of the order of the day is: inquiry to the Government on public policies respect for the foods that they make emaltir, presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes that is Pot. To expose her, has the word Ms. Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.26.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, we're a sick society and a insane society. A society that knows that good food is the basis for the salvation of its people and that is allowing, not to say favorable, that, as a rule, the majority of the people are eating poorly, is an insane society that is causing a problem of first order public salvation. And that's what I want to talk about today in this inquiry. Because in Catalonia we have a hard problem: eating embalms and kills us. There are causes and circumstances, obviously, which cannot be attacked by the Government of the Generality in this respect, we know, but they cannot be done at all. Are they breaking up? Are they doing all right? This is what we want to talk about in this inquiry and, obviously, in the subsequent motion. Three_quarters_parts of our diet today..., is neither healthy, nor nutritious, nor close, nor fresh, nor natural. In a country that is presumed to have the best diet in the world, the Mediterranean diet, at some point in recent history something has gone hard that has made eating steps from being a nutritious act to a cause of malalty. The food is currently behind the main diseases that affect us, such as type two diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular disease or cancers of the stomach or colon type. The sum of these diseases is eleven thousand dead in Catalonia every year. And the main cause of these diseases is malnourishment. They are data from a campaign that is taking place all over Spain on behalf of the Alliance for a Healthy Food, and they have also helped us to recover these data from Catalonia. Obviously these diseases also have a health cost; a health cost that Catalonia can calculate in a 26_percent of the expenditure of the annual public health budget, about 2,200_million euros..., caused by the malnourishment. And every day they go to worse. Over the last few years, obesity or overweight in the children's population has tripled: it already affects half of the children in Catalonia. And in the adult population, too: the half of the population is affected. Therefore, it is a risk factor for health, it is an avoidable expense in our health system and it is an obviously relevant and urgent issue. But, in addition, and we would like to put the emphasis on this aspect, there is a brutal class and genera. The election we are talking about is much more about structural causes than it is about individual decisions. Just as in many other elements of our salvation, the determinants are, above all, economic income: how much money you have in the butxaca. And this also happens in the diet, which obviously conditions salvation. And so we're in a loop that never ends. It is therefore not possible to tackle this problem of public health only with educational campaigns that allude to the individual responsibility of each school, and this has been the taunt of how this issue has been addressed so far. « Individuals are less free than they seem to choose their style of life, they are conditional decisions for the personal economy. This is a phrase from Councillor Comín a few days ago, presenting the Catalonia Health Survey. Therefore, we agree, counselor. Now it's time to move from words to fets. We agree on the words, but do not use the words to guarantee a good food to the people of Catalonia. You have inherited policies of public salvation, those of the previous councillor, which do not work in this sense, but which basically attribute to individual responsibility many of the elements that affect our salvation. Therefore, we need to captivate public policies in our country so that we can tackle this issue, and it is possible, it is possible to do so. To begin, however, it would be a good idea for us to share the analysis and the causes. And the causes are multiple, but obviously the main factor is that the food pattern has changed, with a very large increase in processed foods: three_quarters_parts of our diet, of the Catalan and Catalan diet, currently it is with processed items, which basically have excess sugar, excess salt and excess saturated fats, without for our diet, and for a nutritious diet. This has been accompanied, and this is not neutral, I mean, it has been caused and accompanied by an enormous increase in power from the large food industries, which have changed and conditioned our population's production and consumption system and food habits; a growth that has converted them into one of the world's main lobbying; one of the world's main lobbying that is clearly and comprehensively exercised to prevent clear nutritional profiles from being made in the food and being explained in the labelling of the population that is knowledge and nutrition and that is not knowledge and is not nutrition. And this is happening in a globalised economy, obviously in the European Union, but it is also happening in our home. 64_percent of the consumers in our home do not understand the labels about the nutritional values and ingredients they have, and that is not because, yes, it is – it is intended –: they are confused labels. Things can be done in this sense from Catalonia. Moreover, these lobbyists are the ones who, neither more nor less, are spending one or four euros on advertising in Spain, who are in food products, and who are from these food products without all these elements that cause these diseases to us, which cause eleven thousand deaths in Catalonia; announcements that are especially directed at the children's population, and that we do not have it well regulated, and it is not because, yes, it is desirable. And I gave them, plus, other things that affect them, right? , this voluminous will of certain lobbyists, which is a speculative factor to finance respect for the markets of agriculture and food, which has made us carry community and proximity agriculture; which has made the agriculture of proximity and the product of this agriculture much more because in the market and, therefore, it is only possible to allow the people who have the most money to the butxaca to eat produce without, fresh, proximity, no longer say ecological products. With data from the Spanish State, the price difference between a healthy diet and one of starvation is one euro and half a person a day, which means one hundred euros, more than one hundred euros per week for a family. Evidently, a low-income family cannot afford to pay more than a hundred extra euros to have a healthy, simply healthy diet. A 44_per_cent of the population of Catalonia cannot follow the WHO recommendations, nutritional, because they cannot pay. If we want more to eat local produce, to eat fresh produce, to eat seasonal produce, it should be a 25_per_cent more than we already said. If, besides, we want it to be organic, it would be an extra 35_per_cent of those cents we already gave. It's what we have in a country where a Kit Kat's VAT is the same as a pear's VAT. VAT does not depend on the Government of the Generality, but other taxes do, counselor; there are taxes and there is fiscal policy that can be enforced by food to tax certain foods and, in turn, to promote the price of others. And this can still go much worse with treatises like TTIP or CETA, which will also have a brutal effect on the food market and let's not say about the few things that are a fan of protection for the European Union. We do, but there are alternatives. And the alternatives and the way to attack it cannot be with friendly campaigns to promote good food habits and health. It's not just our day, it's the same WHO. The World Health Organization recommends to us that the only way to make effective campaigns respect these themes is through mechanisms based on the control of access to food, and, therefore, to make insanity foods less accessible, to make food more accessible without; with publicity control, with clear labelling, with consistent fiscal policies with sanitary policies and, therefore, also favours access rates for lower classes for that food that is nutritious. And that's what we want to talk about, especially – I developed it later in the reply – in the post-interpellation. And what we would ask you, counselor, to explain to us what has been done by the government and what is not, respect these issues. Because it is clear that we agree that unhealthy food is not an individual problem, it is a pandemic with systemic and structural causes, and before these causes can not be used only friendly measures and educational campaigns; courageous policies and, therefore, very ideology of the left from the health policies of the Government of the Generality. Proposals that do not have to be expensive and, in change, they can be very sluggish; proposals that, for what you say in statements, later on, can be shared, but that we are not entirely clear whether your government as a whole and your parliamentary group, business friendly, will buy or accept it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.27.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the greeting counselor, Mr. Antoni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.28.0	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, President. We've already found this pharystoll missing, now it's done for a few months that we don't come and we like to go back there – it's done for a few months, isn't it? I guess I'm counting on it, yeah. Member, I thank you very much for putting this issue on Parliament's agenda, because it is relatively easy for us, from the government, to put this issue on the agenda of public opinion in general – for example, we did it on the press round of presenting the results of the Esca, in which we especially insist on all the questions related precisely to everything that you have asked in the form of an inquiry – but it may not be so easy for us to put these issues on Parliament's agenda, and it is very important to understand that Parliament is also talking. Therefore, I thank him that you have spoken of this. Just subrate, before starting a little to answer what you were asking me, some of the arguments you put on the table, because I want to make it clear that I fully share them. First, let's do the reflection from the logic of the impact it has on salvation, eh? We must remember that the main causes of mortality today in Catalonia are related to all those chronic diseases, chronic health problems: cardiovasculars, cancers, chronic respiratory diseases, diabetes..., these are the main causes of mortality – we don't talk about the cost they have for the health system anymore – and it turns out that they are highly correlated with life skills, huh? : diet, sedentary lifestyle, alcohol and tobacco. Therefore, there are some habits that are the most directly impacting on the diseases that cause the most mortality, and – thanks to repeat my words – these habits are strongly conditioned by structural factors that people do not sort, strongly conditioned; which does not mean that we can't free ourselves from certain social conditions, but the social conditions are strong, and the level of income, the level of education of the peers, all these social, economic, and educational indicators, have a very high correlation with people's habits. And so that's why the social sciences of the last two hundred years have come, to explain to people that people, unfortunately, are less free than we sometimes think, and that we're only really free, we can only make ourselves responsible for our lives if we're practically aware of the extent to which there are structural conditions that come before a nexi. Because the probability of having a bad diet a child born to Raval is different from the probability of having a bad diet a child born to Sant Gervasi, only at the time of birth; it is actually so. And that's very important to subtrace it. Well, we don't have to give figures on mortality related to these bad habits. What we can give are the quick data of the Esca: 70_percent of the adult population, today, follows recommendations of the Mediterranean diet; therefore, it means that there is a 30_percent that is not, and it is mass – it is mass. We have that frequent consumption of hypercalorie products – brioxeria, sugary beguds... – is very high in infants of lower social classes: 40_per_cent; in change, only 20_per_cent in infants of higher social classes. We have..., data on overfishing of the Esca, for example, tell us that, effectively, there is a 49_per_cent of the population that is overweight; of this 49_per_cent, a 15_per_cent is obese. Overweight has dropped, but obesity has increased, obesity is increasing; it was one of the worst data in the Esca. And if we go to excesses in children's population, six-twelve years, we have that the excess has dropped, but the obesity is kept practically identical, huh? Therefore... We also have to say – we also have to say – that on a comparative level Catalonia is not of the worst countries of Europe. In adult obesity, in fact, we are the fifth best country. There are four countries, which are Sweden, Holland, Denmark and Italy, which are better than us, but immediately you see after Catalonia, which is certainly better than Spain, but this does not have to calm us, this does not have to calm us down. You said, and I would say, quite rightly, that we have a contradiction between the public report – the public report, the report that is made from the public administration – and the report that is made, in the name of freedom of expression, in the space of advertising. And that's it. Why, do you know what is the main action, the main content of all the communicative action that is done by the Government of the Generality in terms of diet and healthy diet habits? It's a lot of things that I'm going to explain with the time I have left, but in the middle of the whole communicative strategy there's this pyramid. [[the counselor shows a full]] - No, no, no, And this pyramid says: « Processed products – that are the ones that come out all day in the TV ads –, « occasional. I mean, if I can't take 'n' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' m' And here's what you said: products processed with excess salt, products processed with excess sugar, etc. And here, in change, we say: "Sepmanal: fish, eggs, vegetables, dried fruit. Diaries: flour, dried fruits, vegetables, vegetables, octopus, olive oil... This is what we see in all the schools of Catalonia, in all the health centers of Catalonia... This is the core of the report that is made by the Government of the Generality, some time ago, for sure, at the time of promoting healthy food: making people aware of the risks, the drawbacks of processed products. What does the Government of Catalonia do? The government of Catalonia has a plan, which is the health food plan, huh? , Action plan for healthy food, the PAAS, which is actually incorporated in the Pinsap. Pinsap is the Pla de salut public, it's the Pla interdepartmental de salut public, it's the Pla de salut alle politiques, and PAAS is a part of Pinsap. But we have done one thing better, I believe, this time, that is to incorporate the objectives..., that until the 2016-2020 Health Plan the objectives of the PAAS were generic objectives; we have converted them into objectives of the Health Plan, we have incorporated five objectives of the Health Plan, that are directly extremities of this Action Plan for healthy food, and these objectives we have posed them, as is done in the Health Plan, with indicators, with numbers that allow us to assess whether we are achieving or not... As I have little time, do not identify who are these five objectives; if I will already do so in the next intervention. It is true that I have little to do in fiscal policy, as a Health Advisor strictly – not as a member of the Government –; I have little to do, as a Health Advisor strictly, in labelling policy – as a government I can obviously give..., and push everything I consider. But, like the Department of Health, our primary responsibility is, indeed, this action plan. And this plan of action that makes them prevention policies, treatment policies – and in this, with regard to treatment policies, I will take advantage of it to make an announcement – and there are a lot of actions in this plan of action. And fix 't..., fix's-fix's, keep yours –, honourable Member, that most of these actions if they are aware of something is not to work only on people– sensitizing people, promoting people's change of mindset – but on the environment and social conditions. That's why most of these actions impact the environment. I give the example, for example, of a review of school menus. It's three-thousand revisions of school menus, and that's going to a medium level of structural causes, but we're at the level of the round, which is very important. Or, for example, the whole Amed program, huh? , which are establishments– restaurants, most of them– that have adhered to the promotion of the Mediterranean diet, five hundred to all of Catalonia. That is to say, in order to change the habits that come socially conditioned, we have to act on the environment. And we need to find effective, concrete, practical actions..., maybe they're not very spectacular, they're not very mediatic, but they're effective and they have... Because what we want to do is, based on scientific evidence, those actions that we actually know will change behavior habits, because they act on the conditions with which people are found and not just on their consciousness, their effort, their responsibility. Plus, the other big... in the field of prevention, so they do a lot of things. It's a guide to healthy nutrition in preschool and school; it's a review of the menus, which it says before, and it's a lot of community programs, which is what you asked for: community programs to prevent and fight child obesity, taking into account social determinants. But, in addition, there is a series of treatment policies, and in the treatment policies what has been done is to propose a new model, a new, more powerful model, which is a model that has just matured at these times and that will be set aside in a manner that will allow us to be more effective in the treatment of those people who have already developed – who have already developed – the disease, which I will explain in more detail to their own intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then there's the word Ms. Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.30.0	Thank you, President. So, as much as we agree with a lot of things, it's clear you don't understand me, counselor. I do not want Community plans or Community programmes. If it's already proven to be ineffective! We want policies that attack the issue structurally. And obviously many will not depend on the Department of Health, but I was supposed to direct this inquiry to some counselor. It's a subject that will be, it's multidisciplinary, to put it this way; obviously it affects the whole government, and it can only be attacked if it is done from coordinated policies, which will affect and must affect the whole government. Because it is clear that the plans of Salvation are not effective; and I have said it before, we do not say it only ourselves, they say it from the WHO. It is not useful to re-try to change the population's eating habits from information or educational plans. We're acting with taxes and taxes. And in this chamber it has been approved on more than one occasion than it is, for example, a fee as symbolic as that of the sugary beaks. You're on your way? No, no, It's not just about the sugar beaks anymore. In this chamber we have also approved on various occasions much more forceful concrete measures for the educational and educational centres, for example, of non-access to harmful foods in these centres. You're on your way? Not all centres in Catalonia. In this chamber we have approved on multiple occasions the promotion of public salvation, and this is indeed its competence, and this also means presuppositions in public salvation. Is it complete? No, no, Now you yourself have the veterinarians of the Protestant Health Department before your department, precisely those who are responsible for controlling food quality elements in food establishments, such as escorts, restaurants, shops, etc., Protestant before the department, say that the retailing and outsourcing of this service can affect public leadership, obviously, and the quality of control of this..., the quality of food. They're not doing it. And let's fill our mouths that are social in these issues, and the only way that there is no such social in there, at the price of the products, and therefore, entering public policies into the market, is with the returns of the families. What's going on? No, no, I'm doing the non-governmental organizations, supposing what the public administration should be doing. Therefore, yes, we want structural changes in the prices on the market, in the returns of the families, in the public health policies that have been made, but also in taxes and taxes, and in the regulation of advertising, which we can also do much more than has been done since Catalonia. They know that we are marked by a Paos code that exists in Spain, but that it is absolutely ineffective. And yes, we could also do things that respect the label, from Catalonia; now, it's brave and it's the whole government's implication. Well, we don't..., like we don't have this thematic distribution locked up, sectorized as a parliamentary group, we'll make them a young man who'll touch all this. So, that's why I said it. I understand that his Parliamentary Group of Together for Yes, which will then debate and vote for this young man, will have to hear that it is a young man who will affect them more than once, not just a health worker, and that probably there will be no more than one who prefers the business friendly and does not deal with the great lobbyists in the food sector. This is the debate we'll have in our own Ple, from a young man in Catalonia Yes, it's Pot. We believe that there is enough to deal with this issue as if it were an individual issue, which is as Mr. Boi Ruiz did in the previous legislature. We're glad you changed your speech, now we want this to happen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.31.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. There's a word from Salut's advisor, Mr. Antoni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.32.0	Congresswoman, look, this is the plan. [[the counselor shows a folder]] , the PAAS, which, in fact, the name is very long, huh? The name is integral Pla for the promotion of health through physical activity and healthy food. That's got a series of lines, huh? : community level, education, health, work, etcetera, struggle against inequalities... That's what I've already found, eh? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It has not been done by this team; it has already been done by the public safety team, which is full of super-competent professionals and super-recognized in Spain and Europe, regardless of the name of the councillor or the councillor, by fate. There is a part of the..., let's say, of the technical structure of the department that are very expert – and in public health it is very important to do so – that it is stable, regardless of political circumstances. Not the less – not the less. Do you know why? Because this plan, which has a lot of actions, the grace is that it is monitored. The grace of a plan is that it is monitored. And it's monitored and evaluated. And it evaluates which actions are having concrete effects. And we will pass you the information that will allow you to know the effectiveness of this plan. Because this plan is not an ineffective plan; it is not. It's an effective plan. With the degree of effectiveness that a government action can have in a matter like this; that you have started here, saying that there is a part that is acting on social determinants, but because in the end the behaviors change. Because, in the end, the change is about behaviors, conditioned, but behaviors. And, therefore, the degree of impact, by definition, is limited in a government action, when you want to change attitudes, behaviors about alcohol, about tobacco, about food, about physical activity, huh? And it has enough efficiency; it has enough efficiency, this plan. Why? Because we compare it at international level, and you can compare the effectiveness of a plan that's done here with the effectiveness of a plan that's done to the rest of Europe's countries. And this plan is recognized for the WHO as a plan with an important level of effectiveness. Which doesn't mean you don't have to go deeper, which doesn't mean that social determinants don't have to attack – let's just hate it – even from many other policies – from many other policies. But what's done from the Salvation Department is good. Surely more needs to be done; it can, surely – everything can always be better – but it is good and has effects. Miri, you said "the policies of public salvation, don't you? You made the list of things that you didn't... that you approved in this Parliament and it's not done. Public Greetings. Public greeting..., what we all know is that if we believe that it is a policy that must intervene on social determinants, it must be, by definition, no longer an inter-departmental policy – which, of course – no longer an inter-administration policy – which, of course – is inter-sectoral. And the cross-sectorality can only be effectively done by the territories. And so, the first thing we had to do is do what we did: we're about to pass a decree that will restore the territorial structure of the Catalonia Public Health Agency; that's the fall, this decree, and we'll have all the territorial public health delegations back. Why, if not, what public health policy do we want to do if it's not from nearness? Because cross-sectorality requires proximity to the territory. And the next thing we do, during this session period, is to bring into this Parliament the law that allows us to recover the Public Health Agency of Catalonia. Therefore, absolute bet. And I announce that on the assumption of year 17, if approved, there will be an increase in the game that today is administered by the Secretary of Public Health. Therefore, all of this – all of this – we are doing it not by the impulse of opposition – I am delighted to agree with the opposition, to me seems magnificent, a good news for the people – we did it by conviction, by pure conviction. And we talk to Joan Guix every day, to hear us, and they know what the line is, what the current secretary's idea of public salvation is. I wanted to explain that, in the PAAS brand, we would make a new model of treatment. A new treatment model that has just matured – and this I think is an important announcement – because also, apart from preventing child obesity and obesity in general, we need to be able to treat obesity more effectively than ever before. And what we're doing is a new model, which I don't have time to detail right now, in which primary care will make a first prevention; if, according to the scientific evidence available, we see that this prevention is not working, it will make primary care itself a strengthened prevention; if the situation doesn't improve, it will make an incorporation of a series of specialists, dietists, pediatricians, specialists in physical activity. And these three levels will bring them to primary school, because we think we need to increase the skills of primary school, also on the subject of obesity. And finally, if this doesn't work, then we're going to the hospital specialty. Why? Because, in fact, we had to improve. And what was going on? That with attention to obesity, once the disease has developed, we did not have a model of assistance that was well suited to scientific evidence. And according to territorial experiences that are working today in Catalonia – we have taken the best practices –; according to scientific societies, which have collaborated in the revision of this model of care for obesity, and according to scientific evidence, we propose this new model, which we hope will also be more effective in the treatment. Because we want to get better. And any idea I assure you is welcome – any idea of impacting in structural terms, as you said, is very welcome – but we want to improve efficiency not only in relation to prevention, but also in relation to treatment. And, therefore, we are acting on all fronts. Thank you, Madam President. I look forward with great interest to the young lady; I understand that she will be very close to the government and we will have time to discuss the measures that are not specific to Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Some applause.]] [[Question to the Government on primary health care]] [[300-00090/11]] The fifth item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on primary health care presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mr. Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.34.0	Well, very late. Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs and MPs, I'd like for a few minutes to imagine that this ampoule is a small part of the health system. [[the orator shows an ampoule]] And that this gout, which I have now in my hand, therefore, represents the primary attention; the primary attention which, as you have just commented, therefore, we are going to do things. [[the orador is watering the gout]] - No, no, no, Almost full, yeah, counselor. Well, this water, which represents primary care, is important, it is essential; but, well, it is practically full. Is there anything else? Yeah. You just announced it. [[The orator takes a little more, until it fills the gout.]] I'm experimenting, huh? Let's have a drink. [[The clock's good.]] Well, this water is good, this water is very good. We could even change the water. We could talk, huh? If this water represents primary attention, we could talk about the Service Portfolio that is representing – they've all said it many times here. We could even discuss how this water came from the past where the other blisters are, which are representing at this time the other parts of the health system. So we could talk about the flows that are set up. We could talk, of course, who pays for this water, with this water's finances. But let's focus, please, on what would be my inquiry, and it's that gout, right now, is full. Well, I don't know if anyone's doubting it, huh? , which is practically full, this gout, and if it is not, then some have just filled it out. That's why the first one we'd have to do is to drink a little bit of that gout – they already see that I'm drinking to try to contribute to it. Do you need this water to live? To live well? Yeah. This water is essential to maintain an excellent health system. Can there be anyone who doesn't use it as the main source of hydration? So, yes, there is: you – and the Member before me has just spoken of an important issue. I recommend water, I recommend primary care. So, is this water good? So, yes, primary attention – this water – is doing whatever it takes. Can I make changes? I'm sure it is. Who? Talk to him. In short, this gout of magnificent water, this gout of primary care is full and necessary to make adjustments. For this reason, look, today I have come to talk about primary care, about everything that I need to do to dignify it, and, thinking about that, I remembered when I heard the Inés Arrimadas saying that Catalonia had seven months of waiting for some questions. I expected you to go out quickly to deny it, thinking: « Set_mesos! Well, the Ines think she was short on some questions because, for example, in some tests there are no seven months of waiting – you sit down, and I'm not happy – there's not much more, there's a lot more than seven months. For example, this one diumenge a company of mine told me that he has a low-worker patient for ill-health. He gave him all kinds of treatment and sent the patient to the traumatologist, and this one, after visiting him, asked him for an MRI, and explained to me, the diumenge: "For that matter, he'll do it in the summer. The resonance, they'll do it in the summer, the next summer: more than a year. Do you know that on the Gencat web page you say 'no' days of midjana? It would have to change a lot, and one of them is to approve here the Transparency portal to reform the waiting lists. And of the refusals to visit the primary care, which I explained from there, from the Faristol? Do you see correctly that a primary school teacher decides to refer his patient to hospital care, to the hospital, and is he denied the visit without attending the patient? Isn't that a step we're doing to dignify primary school? I told you that, I told you in private, counselor, and it didn't work out. It's been months and nothing's changed. And contracts? Do you know how many temporary contracts there are in primary care? - How long have you been here? Are you admitting this? Is that a good model? I have an indefinite, stable contract for everyone. Do you remember the answer you gave to our questions, specifically to Professor Martín Barra, in response to the Government, about detail? I remind you now: you replied that in primary care, in 2011, there were 6,700 metre, and in 2015, 5,700; that is, a thousand less metre. In 2011, there were 6,648 nurses, and in 2015, 5,823; that is, 825 minutes. The cipher is still much more embarrassing in management staff and you serve. Does anyone think that 2011 was a very personal one going through consultation? Clearly the flaps have made the one that was no longer well. It must end once and for all the discrimination suffered by temporary workers and those interested in their rights. I propose, today, to make a major reform and take over major changes in the four axes that we believe must take primary care: care, teaching, research and management. The reform of primary care, which includes, counsel, if you want, can give him his name, "the reform of the Antoni Comín". I know that you have highlighted the need to update the reform of primary care developed in Catalonia in mid-eighties, and that you know that you left issues pending as a clear bet, such as community orientation, that emphasizes people-centred care, continuity of care, and the improvement of resolution capacity. We agree, see? We want to make a consensus policy. We agree that it should respond to social change, demographics and technologies that generate new needs for salvation, of course, such as the aging and chronification of disease. If we do it together, we'll get there more. And, moreover, we are undoubtedly in agreement with you that the needy in salvation are higher in socially disadvantaged areas, and that is why we need to draw up a map of needy with the Medea, not the witch of Greek mythology, not, but the sorghum of Cyber, which scientifically analyzes inequalities, as you see what you just commented a few minutes ago: that people of the most disadvantaged classes present worse perceived salvation, more malaise and more mortality. It may be recalled that the studies show that women present worse health understood that men, despite having a longer life expectancy, and that is why they also need to do health policy. There is sufficient evidence to show that inequalities in health can be reduced by putting in practice appropriate social policies and health care, integrating concepts of assessment of the impact of health and equity, with a strategic look to reduce inequalities. In short, it is more transparent as some of us ask in our bill, with socio-economic indicators, where values are the facts, the studies, the genere, the number of users with free pharmacy, the pensioners, the new ones, and which, thus, helps to contribute to equal needs, equal resources, and not how it has been weighted so far. You know I know the primary care well. On the day of my last year I didn't forget that I entered politics because of the firm conviction that many things can be changed, many things must be changed. Many of them because they are at all the conversations that keep the professionals who are dedicated to salvation. For example, to the students of the faculty of medicine I explain the dimensions of primary care: integral, integrated, continuous, permanent, accessible, active, teacher, researcher, planned, programmed, assessable, participatory and community. Imagine, counselor, what is it like to talk to the students about the continuity of care at a time when we live? What's left of primary health care? Imagine, counselor, when I explain to you that accessibility is the cornerstone of equity? Counselor, in the healthcare system we have two great options: follow the same or change. I..., our group is from the second option: we like to try to improve things. I remember as if you were today the caretakers of all those patients who were calling for help. I don't forget all those who needed access to the health care system and just go through it. I perfectly remember the companies when they leave the CAP after working unmeasured because of the unfair retailing. We have a highly valued health system, a primary care that users recognize thanks to their workers, but already enough to exploit them. Counselor, today I am speaking again of the salvation of Catalans, this time with a theme about which all the spokespersons have spoken and defended in this institution many times. It is my intention to find new consensus on a subject that you have spoken about here when we debate salvation: it is about the real empowerment of primary care, the ultimate goal that this young man will be and that he would, I wish, have generated consensus among the groups. Can the primary attention count with you? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the greeting counselor, Mr. Antoni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.36.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, do you allow me to start with a joke? But it's an absolutely affectionate joke, huh? Feeling its initial part, the initial part of its intervention, the half-hours it made between the primary and the water and the tone it used, I had doubts as to whether you had more an actor or poet vocation. Or maybe two things, but it's a half-hour... a joke from the highest esteem. And no, I want to..., now I want to say something very serious. I would like to thank Mr. Jorge Soler and Mrs. Marta Ribas very much – let me now appeal to both of you – the attitude with which they pose these questions, this constructive attitude, this attitude, I would say, of loyal opposition. Because for the government – for the government – the loyalty of the deputies of the majority is very important, but this is a gift by guess, this is a gift by fact. If, moreover, one manages to get the loyalty of the Members of the Opposition, which is what I understand I can count on, then it is very easy to work. And more than you're more or less tough, you're tough from leiiness, and that helps to do the work of the government, it helps us an opposition that I want to say today is an opposition that carries with leiiness, or at least I do so, that you make the opposition task from the leiiness. And I want to thank them very much. And I want to say that for the two of you, because I think that's a match to the previous question, and it's a match to that question, too. Because there are many things I agree with what Mr. Jorge Soler said. I would be so happy, for sure, that in the accounts the communication means of paying so much – so much – attention – so much attention – to questions that it also, listens, I understand that it has media interest, it is..., the model of provision, the role of providers, the type of providers, public, private, etc., it would be so happy that most of the space..., of the public debate on health in the years referred to assistive questions; it would be so happy that, in accounts of speaking both public and non-public, it would be more primary attention. And so I appreciate it, because it's our priority. The reform of primary care that I announced in my appearance of the 11th of February 2016 is one of the great stakes of this legislature. What's happening is that it's such an important issue – it's such an important issue – that we're cooking it slowly, because this dish has to come out very – very – well. Why? Because this country has already made one, a major reform of primary care, which was an authentic revolution. And it lasted many years, and it started in '87 and ended in '2003– I say the approximate dates and memories–, and then it changed the upper to lower primary. And now it's not a matter of making a change to the upper-down primary, because we're starting from a much more valid base than the base there was in '83. I'd just miss that we've been pretending to be reforming so bluntly. No, no, the starting point, by luck, today is very valid. We have a great primary today in Catalonia. Now, it's worth it. This great primacy we have today is worth it. And we have to make a plan and we have to make it credible, and the sector does not think: "One more paper, one more report, one more proposal that will remain on a shelf. And that's why we're doing this process with the participation of the professionals, so that they're the ones who together with the department are doing their own reform proposal, and we're building it together. And that's why this primary care reform plan that we started working on March 2016 hasn't been presented publicly yet, because we're growing it together with the sector and little by little. Now, I do want to say two things, and now I'm going to get a little into the contents. This plan we have to do from the consensus, I want it to be possible from the consensus, and, therefore, the role of parliamentary groups is very important. It will be much stronger this reform plan of the primary if we have been able to make a debate, a good debate, in Parliament. Therefore, I am already announcing to you something that you may already know, that is that I have asked for a petition to the Health Commission in November to make, monographically, the presentation of the basic document that must be used to have the plan drawn up at the beginning of the 17th year, because this plan must be closed... A plan to say concrete, operational measures, with timetables and with planned resources. And this plan we want to secure with great consensus of the sector and with great political consensus at the beginning of the 17th. And that's why in November I'm planning to come to the Health Committee, if the deputies see it right, where I'll explain and where I'll try to look, look for this political consensus. Why is this plan, so I'm going to say it's already started, huh? The reform you were talking about has already begun. We were going to start fanning, first, twenty-i-seven interviews with experts. This occupied us the months of March and April. And then there was a participatory process with eleven specific groups of actors, concrete stakeholders from the primary sector, where more than 100 professionals participated. You know that, because people close to you have participated in these work groups. And from here came a first document, of suggestions, that will give little to this basic document that I will come to present in November and that is preparing now..., went to say, without haste but without pause, let's say, eh? But that's because things are going well. And who are the main lines we already have identified for reform? Define the service portfolio. If we want to increase the resolution capacity of the primary, which is one of the other specific lines of this plan, we need to provide it with human resources, economic resources and we need to define the service portfolio correctly. All strategic lines are intimately related. Therefore, first, to improve the portfolio of services, to define..., if necessary, to expand the portfolio of primary services, but to clarify from time to time which is the portfolio of primary services and to homogenize the portfolio of primary services across the whole territory. Improve the payment system; change the payment system so that it is consistent with all these strategic objectives that we set. Increase the resolution capacity of the primary. Of course, you said this: to scale human resources, to scale the number of professionals we ask for all this work that is being done today, and that we are aware that at these times the primary plants are certainly not equipped enough. And we are the first ones that, if we had the resources, today we would increase the number of doctors and nurses we have in our country's primary care centers, in our country's primary care teams. Actually, we're already doing it. And a very, very important question, which is to move decisively towards management autonomy, regardless of which type of provider, because here we have to be able to move forward with cooperative-profile associative base formulas – it is one of the ways to achieve more management autonomy – but we also have to be able to find mechanisms to improve the management autonomy of all those basic areas that are of the ICS, which are in many, that are the majority, huh? And, therefore, we must find... And we're working on this, and at this point the ICS is doing an assessment of its different models, of the four management models of the ICS, to see which ones offer more potential in the past in this objective that seems to me to be one of the most important objectives of this reform. Because it is obvious that the primary, you have also said, we must be able to do so, thanks to these changes that I have now listed – of increasing the autonomy of management, of the resolutive capacity, of the better equipping of the professionals, etc. – that the primary does all those things of community profile that the reform of 87 already indicated and that have not just been fully deployed. Therefore, there are things from the first reform that have remained pending and are to be recovered and done, which does not mean that the balance of the first reform is not good; it is not good, good! Extraordinary, the change that made the primary. You know so much better than I do, and the bigger you and I still know so much better: between what was the first year of 80 and what is the first day today in Catalonia there is an abyss. But, still, there are things from the first reform that need to be rescued, and we need to be able to adapt the primary to structural change, because the part of our care system that is more close to society in its evolution, in its conjunction, society as a joint is the primary. The mayor's the one who sees everyone. The primary is who you see almost everyone. And, therefore, if we are to say that there is an important technological change, from the point of view of care, the opportunities it offers. If we are saying that there is a democratic change that has a strong impact; if we are saying that all this needs more community logic, that we have to link the primary to public health policies, that we have to make the new Community model of mental health, that in PIAISS, attention and social and health interaction are to be built from the primary. If we're saying all this..., because we want the primary to be able to respond to these great structural changes that are patenting our societies, effectively, we can't ask, as you said, to the primary that you do miracles. And, therefore, these instruments must be given: increase in resolution capacity, an effective payment system, size the seedlings, give them management autonomy, etc. And I want this primary plan to have social, professional and parliamentary consensus. That is why we will find ourselves, if it seems right to you, at the Health Committee very soon, in November, so as to attempt to build the foundations of this model, which we can already start to build effectively, also, in the negotiation of the motion following the inquiry that you present. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.38.0	Thank you again, President. Well, Counsellor Comín, Ciutadans' loyalty is unquestionable for the benefit of all Catalans. Allow me not to start my intervention by making jokes, it's not my style and I don't want to adopt it now, but anyway, since you have commented on it, fix your differences, well, with your group, with your doorman, with Mayor Conesa, but above all, and that's important to me, you don't hurt the workers. Say that, close the door, but listen carefully, huh? , the subject of the proposals of primary care. Counselor, I want a primary attention that I feel completely proud of, because I recognize it, that I am proud of it already. I want a truly inclusive and integrated primary. I wish for a holistic primary that is present in all stages of life. Are you asking me an inquiry, as you have seen, based on the question I asked you, do you really want to take primary care, counselor? I come with the illusion of making a great health proposal, of completely reforming the primary care in which you, therefore, already seem to be all right. I propose that this legislature follow what makes us proud to succeed in improving this Catalan health system, for the sake of unanimity. Yes, Counselor, without leaving anyone, making a proposal of cross-cutting, conciliatory, great and powerful. We can get all the primary attention. All the groups have talked about this here; everyone understands, therefore, that we would agree: let's do everything possible. We now have the best chance of having great points of union, of making changes that impact on a reform of primary care, in which everyone agrees that it should be fine. Without leaving anyone behind, without people running to take the picture before anyone breaking all the dial bridges. They do everything that so many times comes to the Health Committee we talk about every saying of continuous attention, of centers, of detail, etcetera. And today, especially – Mrs Reguant reminds us very well – that we must not focus on reviewing each aspect individually, but on analysing and planning overall the health needs of Catalonia's primary care. And you're right, Congresswoman; you're right. And we also need to talk about the unfortunate assumptions, especially pathetic for primary care, counselor. Not to talk about the care charge or the waiting lists. It's time to reverse the unfair details, you know that well. To the primary attention it is necessary to talk about your triangle, counselor, what you say is that it is formed for fairness, efficiency and quality, but I propose to make a geometric figure much more complex; not to do it individually, but to do it with all the people who are waiting to help make a great reform. Keep up the good work. Let's stop overburdening management and trust to deal with management autonomy, why not? Let's get away from victimism to build solutions. We need to be aware of the dispersal that characterizes Catalonia, of which some seem to be lune lands where we take the diumenges, to take over all four pillars that I told him that I think he could take care of: the clinic, he managed it, the research and the teaching. And with that we no longer have a triangle. We recognize the great unquestionable value of Euclidean geometry to which you refer, but we need to reform a complex design system that requires much higher constructions and efforts. It will not be fair without political effort and in order to achieve it it must improve sustainability, transparency and quality. It's okay to talk about this, counselor, and find solutions. And we can also address community pharmacy, aspects of patient care communication, how to organize new multidisciplinary teams, the agendas, the new nursing role, the role of social workers in teams that are offending with social problems, the orientation to the community, the management of time, timetables and, of course, the need for family reconciliation. I propose to do it, counselor, without political protagonisms. Let's leave the reform leadership to whom you have the authority to do so. I'm convinced that the time to get there is now. Today, again, this group I'm representing is offering to work for a great and better public health system. We don't make a Lampedusian reform that changes things because everything goes on the same way, but we make a big reform because the resulting system is the great best that we can all be proud of in a few years. And to finish, Madam President, I would like to make a final message: the day I return to primary care I would like to do so knowing that I did everything possible, at least everything in my ability, to achieve the best public health system possible. I want to go back to making a coffee with the companies and be able to say that the time I've been here in Parliament, I've tried to get as many patients as professionals to have the public health system that I'm convinced we can get, so many of us are, the primary care we deserve. That's why, counselor, I'm calling your help and the complicity of all the forces here present. If we are not willing to make big changes we will never have the primary attention we need. Let's do it together, let's do this reform, let's do a new primary care for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.39.0	Thank you, Congressman. There's a word from Salut's advisor, Mr. Antoni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.40.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, let's..., fix's- as always, huh? Of course, with the utmost respect – that I, in your second intervention, have had a little feeling..., a feeling that was as if, perhaps, written before listening to my first response, because if you listened carefully to my first response, I understand that some of the things you said to your second intervention, I understand that they did not correspond. But, go on, that's it, every single one's worth it. Because you're telling me in this intervention that you've just done that you're doing well at primary school as it is, that you don't want a cosmetic or lampedusian reform... exactly, that's exactly what I said, that we've done the second big reform in the primary care system in Catalonia, ever since there's democracy – the second big reform. Now, with the humility of recognizing that it was revolutionary and that there are many valid things now, and it would be a mistake not to identify what is already valid, starting with professionals, that it is the great act of primary care, which does not mean that changes do not have to be very profound, of course it does. Therefore, it will not be implemented in one year or two. If the first reform to primary care began in 87 and ended in 2003, which means seven years, this time, a date closed, first quarter of the year 17, a concrete document, with operational objectives, I hope we do not triage thirteen years. But it's obvious that if we change funds, they're changes that aren't fan in a year. The background changes, by definition, need more time. Then you also said "no protagonists". Indeed, I have given the leadership of the field to professionals, so we have started with a participatory process; more than one hundred professionals with quite a long time, two months–May–June, and the preliminary stage of experts' interviews, March–April. If we go faster, we'll get hurt. We have to let the acquaintance come out. Now, if I don't push it, you'd tell me I'm missing my obligations. So, it's not about protagonistism, it's about responsibility; I have the responsibility, like counselor, and my team, to push this reform; if not, you would be the first one to delay that I'm inhibiting myself. Therefore, without protagonists, but allow 'but I do the paper that I agree with my responsibility, which is to push – and I am doing so on a very permanent basis, so to speak – this process of drafting the reform plan. Look, I think there are conditions for us to agree, because the music of your intervention I understand is enough, and I think we will see that, with the music of this background document that you will know when I appear in Parliament in November. For what it does to the workers, we do not harm the workers, indeed – we do not harm the workers. Therefore, all the policies that we do from the Department of Health have as the first – first – criteria the patient, always the patient, the main; the patient; and the non-patient, because the citizens who are not ill also have to age for their right to salvation. Therefore, first the right to salvation, which is the first obligation, but immediately, as important as this, there will be the professionals, without whom we cannot guarantee the right to the salvation of the people. And so, when we do a process like that of the Vallès Clinic, and it ends, and I go to the Vallès Clinic when the process is finished to ensure, to prove, to confirm that the process has ended satisfactorily, when I go down to make contact with the communication media, the business committee of the Vallès Clinic says: "Conseller, if you want to accompany you. And if I'm not expected to make contact with the communication media accompanied by the entire business committee of the Vallès Clinic, because it's a business committee that always acted – always – by interest, with great responsibility. And that is why, in the first instance, there will be an important impact, that it is the public opposition call, announced by the President of the Generality in the general policy debate, that will allow us, only in the health sector, to offer 2,500 seats; that it will allow us to lower the ICS's interinitiation fee, that it is immense, today it is immense, this interinitiation fee that during the five years of the crisis has tripled, it has gone from 10_percent to 30_per_cent, as a result of the decisions of the Spanish Government, which was the one that prohibited making public opposition calls; therefore, we have not been able to make public opposition calls by decision of the Spanish Government for five years. Now that we can do so, the president announced a call for 2,500 seats, which would allow us to convert 2,500 people who, if not, would be acting as permanent workers. But it's not just that, it's that you should know – I suppose you know – that we've made a policy of ‘planning in the Health Department' – that I, of course, have already inherited it, because it's already coming before I get there – that allows us to say that at the end of 2016 there will be ‘planning more than 90_percent of the false eventuals that were at the ICS, which means that 5,600 people in three years, between primary care and hospitals, in this case; 5,600 people who were with eventual contracts when they occupied structural places and who, thanks to this ‘planning' policy, become interested. Year 16, 810. Therefore, he knows what our days are about – and he went to say our nights – to fight – to fight – to improve the working conditions of professionals. Because without recognizable professionals and decent work conditions, it is obvious that we cannot guarantee the right to the salvation of our citizens as we want to do. And for that reason, we'll find each other here too. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.41.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Question to the Government on children's education]] [[300-00091/11]] The sixth item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on children's education, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.42.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies, guests. The Generalitat has exclusive skills in children's education from zero to three years and you always say that when you manage everything you do very well, unlike when the Government of Madrid manages everything you do very badly. So, well, let's go see how the education situation is from zero to three years with exclusive competence of the Generality. The Generality's reversal was reduced to half in the four years from 2009 to 2013, from 147_million to 71.5, and from these 71.5, we have moved to zero_euros today. So, I'd like to ask you, Counselor, to explain how and why they did this demolition. Because before the financing is divided between the joints, the autonomous government and the government of Spain, and currently neither the PP government nor the government of Joints for the Yes finance the schools Bressol and all the fish collected in the families and in the – every couple more – together. A generality that, as I recall, kept more political than any other autonomous community in Spain and, surely, than any other region in Europe. I give an example: the own hisenda, 50_million euros. This is more than it would cost for all children in Catalonia to have free books, as we have presented in a bill of law, and what you have done is to present a message to the bill because, I don't know why, they don't want children in Catalonia to have free books. And not just that. It's that, besides, we're the autonomous community with the higher ranks and the lower ranks. In Catalonia we have 242 high offices of the Generality that cover more than the President of Spain. In fact, Mr. Puigdemont charges twice as much as Mr. Rajoy. And to me, personally, it costs me a lot to hear why the president of an autonomous community charges twice as much as the president of a country or why the councillors of Catalonia, of the autonomous community... [[remorse of the voice]] – Mr. Turull, quiet, quiet, already falling poquet, revenge! I'm sure he can do well until I'm done talking – so they're covering the councillors of an autonomous community more than the president of Spain. And on top of that they dedicate zero_euros to bressol schools. That's to say, money for the higher ranks we do have, but for the schools, no. Without a doubt, with these 242-high subs and with the downsizing of the President of the Generality and his advisers, we would have a very good assumption to devote to the Bressol schools of Catalonia. It does not seem, however, that this is the line of action of the Government of the Generality because the President has pushed it 6,3_per_cent and has contracted twelve other charges that cost us 1_million euros each year. Obviously, teaching is not a priority for Convergence or for the Republican Left, and it is dedicated to retailing in sanitation and education to have more money and spend it on high-level and political issues. Let's see, now, how governments can address the needy of small childhood, which can be with a combination of public policies that usually consist..., first of all, in paid maternity and paternal leave that in the more advanced societies tend to be each time longer and more egalitarian, as Ciutadans proposes; second, there are subsidies and tax deductions to facilitate the acquisition of support or care services, and, third, you serve to educate or cure the first childhood, which is the model for which the Generality generally chooses – in Catalonia, huh? In general. It's important to remember this given for the comparators we'll do later. Two years ago Catalonia occupied the second place in two-year-old children's schooling with a 51.2_per_cent of the 2003-2004 course. This fee reached 55_per_cent in the 2008-2009 course. And, sadly, we have now lost three points, and in two years we have passed to the second position in Spain to the sisena, behind the Basque Country, Madrid, Cantábria, Galicia and Andalusia, as we can see in this table. [[The speaker shows a full camera.]] This is ministry data. I suppose, Madam Counselor, you will answer me that "Spain robs us or, as I said in the last question on July 14, and I quote textually: "We would already like Catalonia to be the same as Extremadura. We don't want to be better anymore, at least be the same. Fi of the date. But I remind you that Madrid is better funded than Catalonia and that it has gone from a rate of 37.3_per_cent to 64.5 in two years. And as in this case he does not have this argument that he likes so much the "Subsidised Spain living on the coast of productive Catalonia – a slogan of Convergence that I will not qualify, because I think it is qualified sun –, I am loving to see what explanation we give for the fact that Madrid has doubled its tax and Catalonia has lost three points in tuition rate. It's possible that I'm in denial that we're on top of the Spanish midjana. Okay. That's true. A lot of poquet, huh? , because the Spanish middle is 52.1 and the Catalan is 52.9, but the case is that our middle has invested with the governments of Convergence and the Republican Left, and all the rest, I repeat, all the rest of the autonomous communities has improved. Maybe you also tell me that the average is higher than that of the European Union, and it's also true: a 30_per_cent. But, of course, it's not comparable, because if we remember the three measures that can be taken for childhood, I have already said that in the case of the northern countries they choose the longest maternity rates. In 2004 the Generalitat approved Law 5/2004 on the creation of high-quality children, which increased funding and the creation and maintenance of schools, the application of the law known as the law of three thousand places, which doubled the number of schools in just over two years. And that's why we were at the front of zero-to-three-year schooling. Unfortunately, we all know what Mrs Rigau's mandates meant in teaching and especially in public teaching. You may see, madame advise, if with your mandate we return to the front of childhood education or remain stagnant and each time more backward. What's your understanding of the schools in Bressol, ma'am? Will you continue with Mrs. Rigau's line of underprivileged and continue to offend gatherings and families? Or, on the contrary, will you bet on child education and return to the 2009 reversal? Because the money that you don't bring is the end of bringing together, the deputies and the families. For example, tuition fees at the Bressol schools in the province of Barcelona have increased from EUR 134 to EUR 161 and the laundry fee from EUR 91 to 121. This at a time of crisis where families need help more than ever. And we don't forget about educators. Educators have jobs that feel low in value and low in pay. And see how external management companies cover money, but they don't always do their job well and don't worry about staff. At present we have assistants who do not arrive at EUR 400 for four-hour days, while, I have said, we have 12 high charges that will cost us EUR 1 million a year. The bressol schools require educational pairs. And that's not due to lack of funding. And we need more educators, more helpers and more vetters, because, beyond the places reserved for the little one with special educational needs, often at the length of the course we are detected cases and it is not possible to give a quality attention for lack of vetters. Think of Sylvia, Counselor. A single educator, in a class of twenty young, two, three years old, and a child with autistic trets or a child with disorders of conduct. No one's worried about Sylvia. In fact, they're jutjaran for their work if a child comes out of the classroom. Think of Sylvia, lady counselor, and Sylvia's companions, when you decide the presuppositional game for child education. I think of her and the Navy, and the Queralt, and the Dew, and the David, and the Nuria..., because I trained them at the Autonomous University and saw the illusion they had for children's education. And I want them to continue working with this illusion, and this can only be done with good conditions and more support from the administrations. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.43.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. To answer, the text has the Teaching Advisor, Mrs. Meritxell Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.44.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, today she has brought us many data and, as we are used to doing, she has shown us how to control children's homes with high loads and outside offices, etc. I, if I may, will speak to you, basically, only by teaching, and, to avoid entering the data, but, yes, I do believe that some, just to put it on the table, is worth it among all the numbers... While you said: « Listen'm, these 50_million euros that you have allocated... – I don't know, to some of these things that you have said – « they are serious enough to pay for the textbooks. Miri, children's education students and primary education: 700,000 students; for 150_euros of midjana worth the books, more than 250_euros for 300,000 ESO, I get 180_millions of euros. Quite a lot of 50_million euros. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I just put the table aside to say that he has said a lot of data and I think it would be worth it, when we talk about numbers, to know what educational policies cost. When you asked this question, you asked a question about children's education, and I tried to take all that information, because I didn't know exactly what you wanted to talk about... We are very aware, and we have always said, that children's education is the basis for a good future learning, and the studies, all the studies, in the sense that the first stages are important, that the flexibility of the brain is the greatest until the sixth year; but obviously, in the last studies, too, we say that even in adolescence there are times of plasticity. Therefore, child education is a good tool to prevent early school leaving – this is what the European Union tells us, too – but, above all, it is for those children who live in more complex situations. And how are we in childhood education, all of us, from zero to six, in Catalonia? Europe gives a given, which I would also like to place on the table, quite worrying, which is that by 2030 the number of children under six years will have fallen to the European Union by 7.6_per_cent. The European Union, 2030, will have 2.5_million children less than 2012. And it specifies that where this fall will be most dramatic will be in the countries of Eastern Europe and does not determine five, but it does mark Spain. And that's a theme, too, that we have to look at as society, and they know we haven't talked, so many times. But, apart from donating data, put forward a strategy, the strategy of Europe 2020, which you hear us name many times, because it talks about dropping out of school, about failure, it talks about schooling. One of the goals for children's education is that 95_percent of four-year-olds are enrolled in 2020. In Catalonia, we have to say that this object is more than surpassed. It's an object we've completed. Catalonia's enrolment rate in the second cycle of children's education is highest, and the coverage of the first cycle of children's education is also high. We have brought our data: course 14-15, if we compare the births and P0, P1 and P2, those who are educated, we have a tuition rate of 36.9, when the goal of Europe is 33_per_cent, and it has increased three points compared to the year to which you refer from course 10-11. As I said, this stage of childhood education... why are we giving these data? So, because it's just foundational, child education, for a good learning, and it's a stage that's important to predict school drop-out, especially in the most missed students. And this is already being detected by our sises and ESO quarter tests. The more years our students spend in the system, the more opportunities they have to succeed. That is why it is so important to continue working on school fees, despite the fact that we have already completed European objectives. You asked me: "What are we doing? I will explain to you what we are doing from three points of view: a pedagogical setting, a place – which I have already started to say – and a finance one. In Catalonia, from the year 2010, public places of children's homes, schools have passed from 58.140 to 69.604. Therefore, we have increased in 11,000 places, in these years, public schools, despite the high birth rate in this country. And 61 percent of the seats in this country are public. The second point is financing. In this you are right: the difficulties of the past few years have caused us to suffer for this financing. And what we've done is we've been looking for support to keep this service that we consider important to our society. Miri, the year 2009-2010, zero-three were dedicated to 86 million euros and all the schooling in Catalonia was free of three to six years. The Spanish State, in those moments, for three-month schooling, sent to the Generalitat de Catalunya 71_million euros, and the Education Plan3 sent to Catalonia 21_million euros, in 2010, to finance it. The year 2012– and what we are here know–, the Generality, like all administrations, suffers from a strong flood of public entrances to which the elimination, on the part of the Spanish State, of these stages must be added. And yes, I won't get tired of repeating it, because if this is a priority for the Spanish State, we don't understand why it stopped financing these 71_million euros for three to six years of schooling, and these 21_million euros for zero to three years of schooling. What did the generality do at the time? So, to maintain, in the first place, the gratuity and the universality of the three-yes– which was the Spanish government that put it in danger–, because we are aware of the importance of this stage, and, despite these resources of less, we guaranteed with resources propitious to those moneys that did not arrive for the schooling of three to six. And we searched out– yes, we searched out – money to the deputies, just so we could continue to finance and maintain this zero-three service. And that's what allowed you to secure funding at these two stages. Let's say, however, that one of the other things we have on the table is the necessary change in the setting of children's homes between which it is a policy of priority conciliation and which must be a policy of compensation of inequalities. The policy of children's lars in this country has been based, basically, on an important element, which is conciliation. And it explains quickly – you also did not make any –: we have a maternal discharge, the seas, of seven weeks; if we want to get back to work, four months after we send the babies to children's homes. Only... – in my opinion, perhaps because it touches me more closely – the World Health Organization recommends that we let our children go to six months and, in change, Spain is going to work from four. Therefore, here we have a problem, we have to see the children's lars as a basic tool for conciliation. And who was the finance policy? So, donate five thousand euros per square created, occupied or not occupied, and these thousand eight hundred euros per square without taking into account – and this is an important element, Mrs. Sierra; forgive me, eh? , but it is now an important element – we paid a thousand-cents per year without taking into account the economic situation of the family. So, what are we doing? A job to know the real cost of the square, because the figures vary a lot depending on the assembly, and we also need to think about introducing a whole topic of social pricing and prioritization of certain collections. The generality's financial situation improved, but obviously it's not what we had. What do we do when we have more resources? , more resources by ordinary means of the financing of the Generality, but more resources when these 90_million euros come to us that the Spanish State has ceased to allocate to it. So, miri, what we have to do is a redistributive policy, as we have done, for example, with feeding grants. We find ourselves, and you tell us the report of the Bofill Foundation, that we have places; we've made places where we don't have students and we lack places of more social complexity. Therefore, one of the most important things is that these places are intended for families with less social, economic and educational resources and that they have priority in financing, access. The report of the Bofill Foundation tells us: "The municipalities with a lower level of education and the greater the level of education is where there is a greater school deficit. This is where we want to work. But we didn't just do that. As we are still betting for the zero-three, you know that the pilot project to keep infants of one year and two years in rural school areas has been very successful and has allowed us to already have fifty schools that harmonize or facilitate this service in our territory. And the third point – which unfortunately, then, will not have much time to develop it – is all the pedagogical setting we have made. We have done all the curricular order of the first cycle of children's education, we have given all the orientations for the evaluation and orientation of the deployment also of the curriculum of zero-three and three-ses; all a formation not only of our teachers, but with the Catalan Association and the Catalan Federation of Municipalities, for the classes of public children, the municipalities, the privatides, oriented to all those professionals who in our country care for our children. This is the bet and will continue to feel the bet of the department. Obviously, as we go up the pressure, we can continue to respond to these needs; but it is obvious that we cannot continue to talk about the financing of children's homes as if everyone has the same needs, as if everyone has the same tickets and as if everyone has the same priority at the time of accessing a children's home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.46.0	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Madam Counselor, for your explanations, even though I don't think you've listened very well, because I've been talking about outside offices at the moment or looking like it. For what he does to text books, we, obviously, before he makes the proposal, we have made the numbers, and we have an Excel; if he wants, I can pass him the Excel. These dates I've given for the first year. This would be a four-year process and, in addition, the books would be serious to reuse them and stay in the schools. I'm surprised that I don't know what's already happening to the rest of the autonomous communities and, more importantly, what's happening in some schools, some schools here, in Catalonia, for example, where I was. Then, I told him that ours... is that I have the feeling, that's, that he didn't listen to me very well, huh? Because I already told him I'd talk to him about the Spanish midwife. Yes, we're a little bit above, re, not above a point; but we've gone from the second to the second, and I've asked him specifically why we've gone from the second to the second, and they didn't answer me. He talked about Europe, and I also said it before, in my intervention: of course, Europe has fewer maternity and more paternalities. Then, a theme that softens us is that of the distribution of bressol schools, because it is not homogeneous people to the territory, which goes against equity, equal opportunities and, by extension, it is a frontal attack on social cohesion. You yourself have said this: there is international evidence that early childhood education has a positive impact on the various cognitive and social abilities of infants, and this impact is especially concentrated on infants with low socioeconomic status, immigrant origin and special educational needs. So, if the municipalities, as happens in Catalonia, where more is needed the presence of schools Bressol is precisely where less there is, it is not that it is done badly: it is that it is done very badly. Then we think that these situations of risk of socio-economic exclusion cannot limit the development of infants, because we want a fairer and more equal society. What do they think they're doing to deal with the malfunction of this distribution of child education? Have you programmed any action to raise the awareness of families with less resources of the import of a first-time education, which you yourself mentioned? What economic measures do they intend to allocate to ensure universalisation from zero to three years? And that does not mean, as you have already said, free for everyone, but we must ensure that it is universal; it depends on family yields, whether it can be accessed in one way or another. The Generality has forty-three own-title schools. You mean they're not interested in the subject? They pass the pilot to the locals and they're so quiet? Because I already know that they like the romanticism of the 19th century, but, of course, that it has remained with the Moyano law, the truth is that it makes them think. Finally, the other bodies. I asked him to explain to us why the President of the Generality takes twice as much as the President of Spain and why the Councilors take more than the President of Spain. From here we would have money for children's education. That's why he didn't talk. And I don't think he listened to me either because I already said that the PP government has stopped financing, and I'm also criticizing it, I'd just miss it! But what I can't do is that, as the PP government doesn't pay, so neither do we, and we leave it all in the hands of the assemblies, the parliament and the families. Because, Madam Counselor, it's not much more, as Mrs Rigau said, but it's lying; it's not much more or the same: it's less or let's pass the pilot to the others. Then, for the sake of motherhood and fatherhood, I turn to the subject, it is one of our star proposals to Parliament, and I hope that you, from the mixed group, will give us the support so that we can get out forward. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.47.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. There's the word the Teaching Counselor, Mrs. Meritxell Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.48.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, we are not talking about books today, I believe that the inquiry was about children's education, not about books, but about deix'm... Yes the Generality bet; the one who passes, who has made a bet to donate resources to the centres of maximum complexity. There are two policies: that of giving resources to everyone or prioritizing them where they are most needed, which is the policy we have prioritized. Look, when you set me up with other autonomous communities – and we've already had a discussion I think that... well, it generated some debate in another question– I think I don't want to see Catalonia not having the same deal in finance as other autonomous communities... That's not a question of being independent or not being independent, it's a question of having our citizens. Therefore, not having those resources that we like society need to be able to care for our citizens is neither being independent nor being independent, is wanting to have the resources that this country generates in order to be able to allocate them precisely to the people that I need most. Because, listen to me, the data that we are the third autonomous community in payment of taxes and the third for the income available, that is data. Therefore, it is obvious that it does not have the same treatment as an autonomous community which, if I feel the third or fourth for the tax payer, ends up feeling the third in disposable income. Therefore, as they have more income available, of course they can make more investments; for this reason we claim to have a different status, so that we can have more money to make these investments. Because I don't think anyone can get into this room that the government doesn't want to spend money on zero-three or three-six, because that's not it. That's not how we need these resources to be able to do it. You say, "Listen to me, there's a bad distribution of seats. Yes, the one that happens, which unfortunately..., that's why I have introduced to the issue that what we have to do is prioritize where we want to invest, because, if not, when girls are seats are girls, we can't take the children's lars from a municipality that now doesn't need them and transport them to a municipality that does need them. Unfortunately, that can't be done. What are we doing? Through the joint committee, and for years now it has been taking place, talking to the assemblies, establishing generalizable criteria for social charging and prioritizing the collection. Therefore, at the time when we have to put these issues on the table, we believe that the priorities must be these. Territorially, what have we done to care for, for example, those smaller populations that can't have a litter of infants because it's too expensive? These kids, who are in our schools with a child educator. And, therefore, we have been able to attend to a collection that so far could not be attended to. What do we have to do, then? Say how we have to finance and here. Because paying public money for places that don't take care of is not the best way to allocate public money when other places are missing. I insist, the tuition rate in this country has not fallen, it has been increasing. It is true that in the last few years it has grown less, but it has continued to increase, despite this: from 34,1_per_cent to 36,09. What do we have to put on the table? Have you felt the same way about giving to a high-income family that to a low-income family, at a stage that is neither compulsory nor universal? I'm sure they don't. So, that's what we have to agree on. What do we have to do? Prioritize collectius. Whom is it most necessary to go to children's homes? Who have you heard the most? Who does it have the most repercussions for, long term? And so we're talking about social pricing. And why don't we, too, rethink our model? Why do children's homes, instead of only opening up to the students, also open up to the families that most need them? And we could take advantage of the fact that the mother – let me hide, because it is basically the mother – when she brings her son or daughter to the children's home, she can stay there and, in the past, after the català, after the castle, after songs, after habits, after many of the habits she does not have the capacity to do so. And another issue that you have also addressed on the table: the nullity of this country's conciliation policy. Because maybe we'll have to plant ourselves, and unfortunately, and that's why we want to be able to do it, decide from here which is a good policy of conciliation. We want a new country just for a powerful birth policy, and for a zero-to-three education that you do is just prioritise this educational future, not so much the conciliator, and that meets redistribution criteria. I'll finish it by reading four sentences from the Bofill Foundation, because you don't see that I'm saying it, but the Bofill Foundation: "The coverage of the Bressol school in Catalonia has increased in recent years, from a 31_per_cent to a 44_per_cent course 14-15 – I still have more up-to-date data; "the percentage of infants from zero to three schoolings is relatively high if we compare it with other autonomous communities. Catalonia is located in five places of community and three points above the state average. At the international level, Spain has an index of schooling of infants from zero to two years of 39_per_cent, higher than the average of the European Union, which is 30_per_cent. Therefore, this will be our bet: to continue betting, to continue betting because these increasing percentages, they are aware that they are the highest in the European Union, and to continue working above all to rethink what must be the priorities and the collectivities to whom we need more in our children's schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-18-2401.49.0	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you all, and thank you all. They suspect the session until tomorrow morning.
