ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.1.0	It's part of the session. [[Question to the Government on health policy]] [[300-00053/11]] Question to the Government on health policy, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, and to expose the question, is addressed by Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.2.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Good morning, MPs and MPs, today I want to speak again of the salvation of the citizens and Catalans incorporating a debate on a subject not yet discussed in the plenary. I'll talk about one of the things that most people do, that it's going to the dentist, like the symbol of what we have to do in Catalonia to make prevention policies. I have come to ask for three reasons, all of which are essential in order to avoid passing through them and, if I have to do so, to have the maximum health guarantees for the citizen. You know that the salvation of the citizens is a priority for our party, and so it is also related to the world of odontology. It's a topic that we need to work here from the two indissoluble health cores that are patients and professionals. That's why today I'm going to do a structured inquiry in three big blocks: the first, in relation to dental services in public health; the second, to protect users and workers; and the third, to ensure the best dental training and thus have more guarantees for citizens. I suppose, counselor, you know the subject of the public ethics portfolio well, and you're worried about it, right? That's why today, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, I'm going to talk to you about children who have problems with their careers, about people who don't have the resources to go to odontology, about people with oral cancer. And all this I will do to propose viable measures that can be perfectly acceptable to our Government. Madam President, I would like to thank the distinguished President of the Official College of Odontólegs and Stomatólegs of Catalonia, Professor Antoni Gómez Jiménez. Your help and that of your team has been commendable. Counselor, the other day a pediatrician explained to me the case of a child of Lleida, a child of seven years, with great problems of police, unable to pay for the treatments. Do you know who the circuit is? Miri, do you know how dental fish extractions are done at seven-year-olds? The latest reports on dental visits to Catalonia show that I am sure that Members and Members will be concerned. Only three data: 250,000 Catalan children under twelve years of age have càries; 4 million Catalans over twelve years of age or older have càries in permanent teeth; in Catalonia there are more than one hundred thousand Catalans– more than one hundred thousand Catalans– more than sixty-five years of age who do not have teeth in their mouths. Don't you see that very worrying? I had a lot of work to do, didn't I? Thus, it is known that, with oral cancer in Catalonia, 85_percent of cases are diagnosed in late stages, and their early detection would reduce mortality to half. 2016 will diagnose 550 new cases of oral cancer in Catalonia, and in the next year 165 Catalans will die per oral cancer. I'm sorry. I had a lot of work to do, didn't I? For all this, it is necessary to increase public dental services in Catalonia. Currently, there is territorial discrimination; that is, according to the postal code where it was born, it is right to some services or others, and this is completely unacceptable. Whoever has money is better and who doesn't, so they've already heard the ciphers. Regrettably, huh? This happens here in Catalonia, and this is totally unacceptable. So, we do things, counselor; in fact, I won't propose any. In Spain, child oral health has a better coverage and, above all, has an unequal offer between territories, despite the advances and efforts made in different health services. This translates into inequalities in child oral health levels. Some communities – for example, the Basque Country, Murcia, Andalusia, Navarre and Balearics – have developed specific programs aimed at improving the situation and, by mediating the application of these programs, it is possible to increase the coverage of oral health services in the children's population, which has resulted in significant improvements in dental health indicators. Prevention: it's the key. We need to set up a children's programme in Catalonia that is more ambitious than what we have. In fact, the incorporation of these oral health care services into the children's population has shown a significant increase in the number of children in care, one of the essential objectives of programs in the health of this type. The public portfolio of dentistry has problems of accessibility, fairness and well-defined responsiveness. At this point, it is established that it gives answer in difficult cases, in cases where in the first level of care they cannot give answer for questions of age and specificity, and it is necessary to derive the children to a specialized center, which is Sant Joan de Deu de Barcelona. We're not just talking about age issues, but about the specific program of the police, where the public portfolio only establishes collections and not the therapeutic treatments when the teeth are from the bed, and neither the circuits are accessible to children with special problems and definitive teeth. Imagine, counselor, how to become anaesthetic to a child with a complex life situation? The children to whom we refer are children with so many backgrounds who need to take antibiotics almost continuously, since they have a permanent septic focus and often with concomitant social problems. I explain children's cases, but there are also problems in other age groups. For example, I now think of hospitalized people with difficult problems of dental sepsis, or elderly people who can't eat alone because they don't have teeth in their mouth, more than a hundred_ thousand in Catalonia. Cal, therefore, protect the users. Do you know how unprotected people are before intrusion or bad practice? Counselor, complaints and complaints about intrusion and poor practice in the field of dentistry are very frequent. To keep numbers: the Official College of Odontòlegs and Stomatòlegs of Catalonia has rejected five hundred complaints during 2015, surely the tip of the iceberg. There have often been complaints about poorly managed franchises, and misleading publicity that moves away from what the regulations dictate. Any person who follows the current situation is aware of cases of overclinic closures and of a year's delay in carrying out inspections at centres of these characteristics. It is also believed that it is frequent over-indication of treatments that go totally against codes of professional ethics; an example are dental implants to patients who, at times, are obliged to sign contracts for financing very expensive treatments before, including, these are carried out. Some practices that leave the users of these services in a difficult situation of defencelessness and compromise the care reputation of the rest of the professionals, who do very well. Isn't that indignant, Counselor? Yesterday they explained to me, from the Collège d'Odontòlegs, a subject addressed to the ethics committee: it is the case of Mrs. Pilar – the name, obviously, is fictional – of a Catalan city, a middle-aged lady who went to a dental center and diagnosed them fifteen càries, of which, in eleven fish, proposed a dental reconstruction. The surprise was when he went to another dentist and assured him that any of those fish required reconstruction and that they were perfectly healthy teeth. That's how the expert report is written, and that's how it's going to go to court. The current legal framework requires changes, but above all, a more rigorous development and application of the existing legislation, as well as a more effective mechanism than the existing regulation puts at the abst of the competent health authorities. In the framework of community directives, and following the example of our lives, these changes should be possible, especially when there is only one objective, which is to defend the good practice and oral health of the citizens. It may be possible to create a patient's defence_mark, to dignify the profession in advertising by means of a more professional interpretation, and to regulate a better training. The new Catalan dentists accumulate titles and postgraduate training and, curiously, their specialization is not well regulated. And this causes the existence of pseudospecialization that is not legally recognized and used in a chaos of masters, diplomas and expert courses. It is necessary to introduce the compulsory and regulated continuing training to odontólegs, as well as to introduce the specialists in dentistry as well as the rest of the European Union countries. So that's very successful in the rest of the health areas – I know they know it very well. Counsellor, president, deputies and deputies, we bet for a social improvement in the dental health of Catalans. It is possible to do so, only so that they will be willing to do so again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.3.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Some applause.]] Greetings from the Councillor, Mr. Toni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.4.0	Thank you, Madam President. I thank you for two things: the issue of your intervention and everything, because whenever the opposition makes contributions that we from the government believe are constructive, so we really want to thank you, because this way, together, we can do better than it is for the benefit of the citizens of our country, and, indeed, on the subject of oral health and odontology, so we have a way to go back to this country, and so much so if they have a way to go back! So, I appreciate it..., I fully understand that you have made an inquiry that you have as your objective to put this topic on the agenda with a higher priority than you have so far, so I agree with you: this topic deserves to be on the agenda with perhaps even higher priority than we have so far. On the agenda of the department there is, and a lot, but it seems that, more than being on the government's agenda, you are on the agenda of the institutions and that the citizens see that we care about this issue, right? So, I think it's a good thing we talked about this, and I think all the Members of this chamber have seen it, it's actually the one that helps so much that we work together, government and opposition. Sometimes, we think that the only thing we can do is throw away the dishes for the head and many times the best we can do is, therefore, as in this case, that an opposition group takes the initiative and that the government appreciates it and in this sense we can go hand in hand. We have a repte in terms of service portfolio. So much – so much! – if we have a repte in terms of service portfolio! Now I'm going to make a quick recovery from where the portfolio of oral health services in Catalonia is today. Information and education for people and oral health. All right, that's basic, but obviously, that's not enough. For adults? Treatments to only acute cases, huh? , infectious processes, inflammations, traumas, wounds and lesions to the oral mucosa, acute pathology of the temporomandibular joint... And all this, obviously, includes when in these acute situations, so, advice, pharmacological treatment, exodations, surgical exodations, minor surgery of the oral cavity, oral revision for early detection of premalignant lesions, biopsy of mucous lesions, etc. Jo, what a walk through the health centers of our country..., and you see that room with all the technology that I need to do all the work of odontology, I talk to the doctors and I say: "And in dentistry? "Home, in dentistry, we are only saving the minimum essential situations, but obviously, we have a demand that is not covered very much, let's say, isn't it? Preventive exploration of the oral cavity to pregnant women: it is also in the service portfolio. And then there's the issue of child oral health: preventive and care measures, closures, cracking... There's a deal that was signed on the 20th of February of this year between the Generality and the Ministry of Health and Consumer Affairs, which is an agreement to extend the free oral care services to primary, for children of 2000-2001. But it's not enough, and that's why we have after the repte of regulating the oral attention that it is doing, privately, by means of these chronicles that we have at these times the repte of regulating better, huh? If our portfolio of services was more extensive, if the portfolio of services of the public system was more extensive, the pes, obviously, of private dental clinics, therefore, would surely be smaller. The rept to correctly regulate them would follow them, but it is obvious that at this point the rept is bigger because of the fact that its over the oral attention is very large..., and its over the oral attention is very large, because the portfolio of services in the public attention system is not enough, but it is not enough because this has a very large presuppositional pes. To the plenary on the situation of social emergency, known as the plenary of the poor, it must be remembered that it was approved a point which was presented in this Chamber on a proposal from the CUP – now I do not remember which were the parliamentary groups that voted in favour of it; I do not remember if the Ciutadans Group voted in favour, I think I remember that yes; in any case, the Junts per el Si Group voted in favour of it – and I will read it. "The Catalonian Parliament urges the Government to include in the basic public health portfolio for children all the necessary elements for the exercise of the right to health, and in particular all the rights of children in general, so that it can gradually lock up – because we have to put this ‘progressively' – between others, the guarantee of access to all products and support techniques, such as now dental services, hearing aids and hearing aids. « You serve dentistry. We approved it because there is a willingness to expand the portfolio of services in the field of odontology, focusing on it, from the outset, in the children's population. Now, the approximate cost of this was to analyze it before we voted for it. The approximate cost of this item is, approximate, around them, we could say, 150_million euros, of which at these times we do not have. It would be EUR 150 million if not dilated progressively. As long as we are responsible and do not vote for things that we will not be able to accomplish after that, we have gradually put in place, and, indeed, in accordance with the presuppositional provisions, as reflected in the same resolution adopted, we will try progressively to apply this policy of expanding the portfolio of odontology services. That's what he's doing to the serving bag. For what it does to the regulation of existing dental clinics today, there are also a few better things to do here. And, if I may, in this matter, as when I arrived, at the very end of a few days, he went... – he was going to say "explode, I don't know if it's the most appropriate verb – he broke into the communication media known as "Funnydent case," huh? So we got to work right away. I could say: « Arriving the molds. But, if I may say so, I add: "But we are working and not working. Therefore, much work has been done in the best of the authorization processes, the inspection processes, the regulatory processes, the private dental clinics, but there has been no public explanation, because what we do is work. From the outset, you must remember that two dental clinics were locked in the genus – Mataró and Sabadell de Funnydent –, and from here, the Directorate General of Health Department Order initiated a review process of how we process the consignors, because he knows that it is a delegated competence. Now I don't have time, I don't go into detail, but you know what the mechanism is for opening dental clinics. In any case, it is a delegated competence that has at these times the Odontòlegs College, certainly, according to a resolution that in its moment introduced the People's Party to the Health Commission..., to improve, and much, the link between the administrative processing that these clinics make before the assemblies and the health processing that they make before the Directorate General of Order. Because it's strange, let's say, if it's strange, to think that these cynics have the authority to open on the part of the municipal authority without having the authority of the Department of Health, emanating from the institutions of the Odontólegs College on the part of the Directorate General of Order. In any case, we identified better, such as, for example, the processing process, its duration over time. There's a range between 2 and 442 days. The middle is 143 days, maybe it's too much time. For this reason a process has begun, on behalf of DGORS, to intensify inspections. We find many clinics with administrative irregularities – then, in the end, I'll give the ciphers –; in change, we find very few that have health problems, eh? , which does not mean that administrative irregularities are not to be solved. Intensification of inspections..., intensify follow-up by the Directorate General of Order of the activity that we have delegated in agreement with the agreement to the Collège d'Odontòlegs... And for this reason at these times it's been, I insist, the month of generation, a monthly meeting between DGORS and Odontòlegs to review the total of consignments that are reben, the total of consignments that are finished... And it is more: we have proposed a revision from the Health Department of this convenient to have a higher effectiveness, a higher efficiency, in the object of this convenient. And at these times he is in the possession of the Odontólegs College, this proposal again convenient, since March 18th and we are waiting for an answer. More. Apart from intensifying an inspection by the DGORS, apart from doing a closer follow-up of the collège's actions, apart from making a new agreement between the department and the collège, we must go to the major, and we work in this sense. What is it, going to the major? Make a new decree of authorization. But these are major words, worth the redundancy. To make a new decree authorizing health centres are major words, because this must allow us to resolve, to avoid, to be more preventive in order to avoid the risks that we have encountered in the case of dental clinics, but no one gets away from it – and I ended up, Madam President, this first intervention – that a decree authorising health centres will not only affect dental clinics, but will affect all the private health centres in our country, large private hospitals that we have today in Catalonia, in Barcelona. Therefore, we have to make a decree, which deserves a very detailed technical work, which deserves a dialogue with the very detailed sector, which deserves different specific chapters. We are working, we are doing this with the sector, and at some point in our own months – and I say this deliberately, "in our own months – we will have this new decree of authorisation of centres mature, which, in any case, has already announced them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.5.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.6.0	...that it's one of the objectives of this legislature on behalf of the councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.7.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.8.0	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.10.0	Well, thank you again. Thank you very much for your time, too. Mine already knows it's the usual, I always try to talk like that. You see, counselor, that for Ciutadans salvation is a priority. And, consequently, the oral health, as we have seen, of all Catalans, is also so. He knew clearly, and very well, and with detail, didn't he? Who's the wallet he's been explaining to us? And that's why the motive, or part of the motive, of this inquiry is..., do it. This legislature will insist on all those measures that improve the health system in the many dimensions it has; we must not neglect, I will not. In health care, we will have four years of productive, constructive and realistic legislature. There are proposals to ensure that citizens have access to good dental prevention services and the best services and guarantees to get them. Our feeling of voting to that you ask, so don't go looking at it, huh? You're always positive. It's always good when it comes to the two essential nuclei, which you know I always, from this rostrum, say: professional and citizen. And, therefore, everything that goes in this tune... does not need to go to the hemerotheque. Citizens always vote' yes. There's no doubt, huh? I can't look at it. You're always a yes. You know that you often deny some of my statements, and time gives me reason. And then you make the changes I propose. So, you denied problems denying the SEM and weeks later, so, you've made changes in the directions. Now you have to make the changes in the ambulances that I proposed to you and that this Parliament approved unanimously. Also, I need to improve the treatment of professionals, and I know it's gonna end. You have a great opportunity to protect and improve the salvation of Catalans. Also, certainly, a great occasion, why not? , to condemn attacks on professionals. It's always a good time to recognize what I said from there. I say, loud and clear, that I condemn any coercion against the workers. I'm pretty sure. And I also say, very convinced, that it was regrettable that before yesterday a group of students did not respect the freedom of the chair and forced them to protect a teacher at the University of Lleida who was giving class. [[Some applause]] - No, no, no, Yesterday we said that those who defend democracy do not accept lessons from the totalitarians. The dignity of the free societies demands the condemnation of terrorism and the memory of the victims demands the claim of their dignity. [[Some applause.]] And so, I think we have to condemn, and the sentence, the attempt to yesterday to a Catalan museum, yes, sir: the Soft Space, to the White Borges. Violence breaks bridges. And, therefore, condemn everything that pertains to violent acts – all of them. And to continue with the tranquillity and normality of our democracy, we continue to work and bet on social rights. And that's why I work and bet to make changes in dental preventive policies. I'm also very convinced. That is why, counselor, we need to do a lot of things. It must be recognized that prevention must be enhanced in public dental health. Not because I'm telling you the portfolio of services that you read, but because I really need to do it. It is necessary to direct public dental health towards a real and strong prevention model. It may have access to specialized dental care before pediatric cases or in complex dental situations where anesthesia is complicated, as, for example, sometimes goes with children with Down syndrome, children with functional diversity... That is why we need to expand the portfolio of dental services aimed at less functionally diverse children, as well as children in special poor situations. So, counselor, yes, when I asked, then, what did Ciutadans vote? You know, citizens will always be on the side of all this, sir. These are some of the things that I'm going to propose to the youth in the next few hours..., and that will respond to the three axes raised: a better number of dental services to public health, a _mark that protects users and changes in dental training that holds as a final strategy win in guarantees for citizens. People's salvation is an essential basic pillar with which to guarantee a fairer and more united society. We prioritize the common needs ahead of individual interests. Many thanks, president; many thanks, counselor; many thanks, deputies and deputies. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.11.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, there's the words of Salut's advisor, Mr. Toni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.12.0	Thank you, Madam President. Sir, I insist that you accept the elegance of your whole, which is only comparable to the elegance of the suit you're wearing today. [[Rialles.]] I'm totally honest, you know. What I also think is important is that elegance is accompanied by rigor. Because in this we have to try to be a little respectful of the Rules. The Rules state that the questions must be dealt with on a specific question, which must be detailed in advance. And I think you're better – no matter what, huh? – do not be familiar with other questions when we make a very well constructed, monographic inquiry into a question such as dental health. That said, I can share some... go, not some of the convictions, I can share all and every one of the convictions you've made. What's going on is that I think they're just bringing in this inquiry, these convictions, which I insist on, I subscribe to. [[Pause.]] May I? That said, just a small correction, if I may, honourable Member: I did not just deny the problems of the EMS, but admitted them. What happens is that before you asked me a question about this question there was-there was a deputy, concretely from Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, who asked me a question in the turn of control to the government. And, indeed, this question, which is in the diary of sessions, began with the following sentence: "Lord Counselor – I had just arrived, made a week – "You have a problem, and this problem is said to be ambulances." And my answer began precisely by saying: "Mrs. MP, you're right, we have a problem, not me, but everyone. Therefore, if anything we've done with the SEM is admit that there was a problem and act. As in the case of dental clinics. I said before: "Arrive and mold. These are unplanned situations when we planned the action we would take during the term of office on the days ahead of the holding, which when we arrived we found ourselves, with some measure of survival, huh? , problems, incidents, in relation to ambulances, and discover the situation of irregularity in which many dental clinics were found in our country, and arrive and mold, but arrive and mold without freshness. That's to say, I think the thing about demanding government is that we work and do a lot, and that we explain things when we already have the solutions in place, and we don't go through the work process that we're doing constantly, because then we might not do it so fast or so well, if we spend our energies. And so I am now explaining to you a little bit, in the matter of administrative regularization, from the point of view of health, of dental clinics, which is the job that has been done by the general direction of ordering. Before I said to him, "I'll give you the chiffons. He didn't give me time; he's giving them away now. He said: "We have intensified coordination with the college. That's very important. One of these things has allowed us... the collège has submitted to us through the register, huh? officially, a relationship of 300 dental clinics... – 17 of February –, 300 dental clinics with possible situation of administrative irregularity. As out of these 300 clinics, 15 were already under investigation by DGORS, they sent cards to 285 centres. What happened? Of these 285 clinics that have rejected letter, 32–32 – even though they have been notified documentally, they have not made any type of notification before the Department of Health, have not manifested themselves, which has done that, at these times, the inspectors of the department, eh? the inspectors of the subdirection are, at these times, characterizing themselves to the clinics of which we have not refused answer. Sixty-two of the cards have been returned for postal services. Imagine what the administrative irregularity situation was with which I found myself when I arrived, because the address was not correct or the recipient was unknown. Twelve of these 285 clinics have believed that they were already authorized or in progress, and therefore it is considered that the letter's sending was unnecessary; 191 have replied, 133 have requested extension, which means that their administrative situation is not correct and requires time to regulate it; 58, of these 133 clinics, have requested extension and have attached, specifically, what is the incidence, what is the situation, what is the irregularity they need to resolve, huh? The summary of all this, in the end, has been that we have made 30 inspection visits to unauthorized centers, that at these times there are 17 sanctioning expeditions initiated for the general direction of ordering, that they are to those clinics – I have ended, Madam President – that they have opened without being authorized, but that they have no health problems. But a dental clinic has been closed, apart from the two of Funnydent, in Badalona, because this one has indeed presented health-type incompliments. Like us, our main obligation is to ensure the patient's clinical safety, we've shut down a clinic. And at these moments there are two immediate cessation requirements in Girona and Tarragona. This is the work – the work – that we've been doing without freshness all this time. I insist that this must culminate before the Major, that it is with a new decree of authorization of health centres, but that it will only, for the import of this rule, when it is ripe enough, and that will be at some point of the proper months. And I hope that we can work together with the parliamentary groups. And thank you, Mr. Member, for the subject and for the elegance, for the two things.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on enterprise policy]] [[300-00054/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on business policy presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, Mr. Joan García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.14.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs; Counsellor Baiget, I don't know if I can speak gracefully... – I'm sorry –, I'll improve... [[relays]] I'll try to make it better next day, always guanyen... [[The timer laughs.]] We'll find ourselves again today, counselor, for an inquiry, and we'll do it first thing in the morning, as the last time we've spoken about businesses, and we'll talk today about businesses and, above all, about relocation of businesses, to be more specific. But don't worry, counselor, my will and the will of this Member, in fact, is not to enter into a debate of figures or, at least, not beyond the needs, since we think that from this group we are living an evidence – and we think from this group that it is an irrefutable fact – an irrefutable phenomenon, because it is global, a globality that ends up having its own consequences; we will talk about it, about it. So, let's start this inquiry by going beyond the question of whether or not there are displacements and we'll try to go further and talk about the companies and workers that are suffering from them. We are purpose, counselor, because we think this debate is necessary and because there are reasonable doubts about everything that has been done in the past or, at least, we have them. Let's start with a question: what did your department do to avoid displacements and loss of knowledge in Catalonia? We don't think they've done enough. We've been going through Parliament, the last few months, a good set of people in critical situations, to name a few: Covestro, Solvay, Ercros, Bacardí, Delphi, General Electric, Alstom... These are evidence, for us irrefutable, that displacements exist and do not stop, nor do we think they are treated properly. In fact, he would make my own the words of Mr. Manuel Gómez Acosta, who in an article..., he has been director of institutional relations of the Alstom Group, and who writes in an article, to Chronica Global, on the flight of the energy industry to Catalonia : « The purchase by General Electric has assumed the loss not only of production, but also of technology and knowledge, and with it, with all this, a whole universe of possibilities in a strategic context, according to RIS3CAT. I'm doing my own thinking. When will your department come out of hiding? For Parliament there is only a very small group of people who are in a very difficult situation. In the context of the Catalan business fabric, displaced enterprises are very remote to the territory, which do not only displace places of work or investments, but also displace them, as we have just seen, knowledge and experience. These displacements evaporate small businesses and autonomes that tank, that do not accompany these displacements, and thus evaporate a work experience that also affects related services, and, therefore, the value chain of any product is degraded and the industry is especially degraded. It is hard to see how different sectors suffer from the same situation, and another example, as we have seen, is the chlorine crisis that affects, especially, Tarragona. Mr. Baiget, you can't replace qualified job places for no qualifications, and you need policies that can fight against displacements. What do we propose, then? We think that the ecosystem that inhabits the corporate fabric is built by different cross-cutting elements; the strength of these is the strength of the system and it is the strength of the system that will prevent displacements. We propose to act on these factors of the ecosystem. A first area: industry. You yourself accepted, a few days ago, when we found ourselves on an industrial day in Sabadell, that there were indices that showed a certain slowdown in economic growth and, above all, are industrial entries. First message: we cannot remember industry only when we are in crisis, because, precisely, we have developed an effective industrial policy ahead of a crisis that makes us stronger to resist - there. It is a good sign that we seem to have after and that the territory is moving agreements and principles, as the agreement signed in the West Valley and, therefore, the agreement or support of this Parliament to the motion for a resolution which will be presented and which gives support to the Pact. You in the RIS3CAT strategy proposed seven strategic areas of industrial activity with the aim of achieving that Catalonia had an industrial GDP of 25_per_cent. Yesterday, we didn't just get it, but we're paralyzed, we're at 20_per_cent, like we were in 2015 and 2014. Or, in fact, we have lost industrial capacity in the last few years, we are stagnant and we believe that the dubious best is not in the industry. Therefore, it is inexplicable, therefore, that the companies of the sectors that you have defined in the strategic scope of RIS3CAT are also leaving this autonomous community. We would also like to know, therefore, who has been the value, their value of this strategy. It didn't happen. Would you or have you made public the value of the RIS3CAT strategy? Because, Mr. Counselor, your predecessor was a specialist in developing analysis and diagnosis with consultants, but trying to know details about the application of the proposed measures and its result is a chimera. Industrial policies must be audited and we must make an assessment of their application. This is a good way to compromise the Pact's more industry, as I said before. We think that the way goes, precisely, to begin working on the measures that civil society proposes to us in this pact in a transversal way. Perhaps the way goes to abandon what the best industrial policy is not, and admit that Catalonia will be industrial or perhaps not. On this line, what is the government doing to boost the so-called Industry 4.0? There are many economic agents who claim that the Administration is catalysing this new industrial revolution and that, as with the first revolution, these changes are being translated into a new economic and social framework. We can do it. We're complaining from this group. Is the government ready? I know that you are prepared to implement a lot of issues, for example, to implement measures that we understand all that cannot help businesses and businesses, such as the many languages. And so the Economist recognizes it a few days ago, which he thinks is newsable, by peculiar and exotic, the application of a consumer code that doesn't exist anywhere else in Europe; an article where we find two clear figures: the trader fined for you and the patriotic denunciator, a grotesque scene if not because it's real and sad. You also spoke in an interview with El Periódico in March that high taxation in Catalonia was one of the most important causes of job displacement. Mr. Baiget, while not very clear to your government, will it push, lower, or maintain taxation on our business system or ecosystem? I'd like you to answer all that. Another ambit: Advanced. It is and was the tool that was responsible for financing the reindustrialisation processes of those companies that were in a critical situation; but we are convinced that it does not work. We must allow a time of suspicion, with a clear structural reform and a clear increase in its availability of resources: 50 million are not enough to cope with the reality of the reindustrialisation of at-risk enterprises. We propose to transform Avançsa into a converse instrument that acts in a pre-phase to situations of closure or displacement such as the expansion tool, that doubles its assumptions and develops part of its programs with actions in pimes, and involves the processes of reindustrialization to the fabric of search centers and transfer centers, i.e., to the Search and Technology network. Advanced has dedicated itself to giving answers to big projects, but not up to the peppers, that is to say, the 99_percent of the Catalan business texture. These don't know Advance. And, obviously, let's hope that irregular situations like that of the Ficosa reindustrialization process – I suppose you remember – are unsettled; as will be known, there, the shadow of 3_per_cent appeared linked to the intermediaries that enabled the process, intermediaries linked to the Pujol family. I hope that we will not leave the process of reindustrialisation in the hands of a family again. And you understand that no, do you think that advance works? How do you plant your future? Did you talk to the peppers about who the paper is that they give you or want to keep from moving forward? We believe in the importance of you too, counselor, as an active actor against displacements, but for what we know, for the time being, your action in the open processes of large companies has been insufficient. We think that the councillor has to lead, and he has to talk to the parent companies, the workers and the Government of Spain. Maybe this way we'll find the advanced class actions, like, for example, occupation guarantee clauses when you're drawn from big companies. Curious that the only conditions you imposed on Ficosa were part... and for...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.15.0	Mr. Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.16.0	...intermediaries...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.17.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.18.0	... – I finish, President –, and in more suspicious terms. Counselor, are you introducing Advanced Occupation Guarantee Clauses to your actions? Counselor, as I have a second opportunity to be elegant and talk to you, I will continue with my proposals after yours...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word Mr. Baiget, Business and Coneixement Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.20.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. I... look, we'll change the subject, we won't talk about elegance, all that you've been very elegant and very casual, listen, and I'll stick to the combs, that you and I have absolutely fashionable combs... [[relays]] ; among other things, because we have few opportunities to repent in a different way, but..., therefore, listen..., and get into the subject already, I also celebrate the whole, and I celebrate the things and ideas that you have said and your purpose. Look, we all have an obligation to try and make sure that in this country, so people can live well, and that they can live well, that means they have a job, and that they have a job, that means there is an activity, and that there is an activity that means that there are businesses that make them and that are productive. And that's what we're talking about. And businesses are alive and they have lawsuits, and sometimes there are businesses that go through difficulties, and this is where the Government of the Generality is. That it's not public determined actions doesn't mean it doesn't follow. For example, what you said: "With Alstom, with Alstom we are not there. So, look, before yesterday I was meeting with Alstom's business committee; I was meeting with Alstom Wind's business committee and I was meeting with Alstom Hydro's business committee, and they all came and there was this counselor, and they're also meeting with Treball's business committee. And that's what we're doing permanently, and it wasn't the first time we met with them, it was the second time, and we met with them when there was also a group of technicians that were..., like the Alstom General Electric process is a European process, because it affects 6,500 people across Europe, after the purchase of Alstom by General Electric, so we were also with the company that did the jobs and technical reports with the European Union's business committee. And that..., and maybe you should ask yourself if our opinions, our positions and our firm saying: "We need to see each other with companies and with their own companies. We've seen each other, we've seen each other, with Alstom, we've met. And maybe some of the actions that have been made have allowed you to guarantee the continuity of Alstom Wind as your engineering here in Catalonia, so there will be no loss of knowledge, no loss of experience and that the process, the ERO, the process of reducing people that had been announced in 320, is now at 110-120 and we keep talking, so we don't give it up. It's true that we want a center like this, a center that is a pioneer, a center that has the research, a center that has the knowledge of this country. And that could tell you about all the other businesses you've mentioned. He talked about Covestro; we're talking about Covestro, too. He talked about Ercros, too. We are not on the decisions... – Delphi said – we are not on the decisions of the companies. If a company wants to move, despite our intentions and pressure, can it do so? Yes, that's what he did in the case of Delphi, who went out paying a lot of compensation to the workers. Our job is to try to make sure that, at installations where Delphi was, there can be new businesses. And that's what's working. And sometimes there are negotiations that we ask for discretion and I won't tell them how these negotiations are going and whether they're going to end well or badly, because... but the truth is that the negotiations, at these times, are there. How they feel about Valeo, how they feel about other plants that you mentioned. Miri, because it's how it works on the part of the Generality and on the part of the Government, we, when there are companies that are in a complicated situation, move them to what we call a risk map. What's the risk map? So, including what are actions of follow-up of companies at risk, of follow-up of industrial processes and industrial reactivation lines. Since the beginning of its activity, which was May 2012 and until April 30 of this year, there has been a follow-up of 376 enterprises– 376 enterprises–, representing 48,654 jobs at risk. At this time, 325 of these companies have ceased to follow because the direct cause has disappeared, because they have closed or because they have been able to reach an agreement, in this case, positive. This meant 39,000 jobs, approximately; of these 39,000 jobs from these companies that have ceased to follow, 29,661 have remained, therefore, more than three-quarters. Look, you'll appreciate whether this is a positive job or a negative government job, if we can do more. We wanted to get to the cent, we didn't make it, we saved the 75. I believe that these actions, therefore, are frankly positive. I April..., today we have 51 companies that are active on the country's risk map, in 51, and there are a total of 9,558 jobs in a risk situation, and, believe me, we are doing everything possible to minimize – minimize – this situation. The same, another act, he says, asked us: "What do we do? So, we have a deal with the fairies. And this thing that works with the fair market is because when there are companies that are in a situation of creditors' competitions, where they are closed and industrial activity is over, we want these companies to continue their productive activity and continue to function. So, since this agreement with the market players, which is from the year 2013, has been awarded 190 productive activities that are in creditor competitions– awarded, therefore, if there is another person, another company or the same workers–, they have managed to save 6,143 8,600 jobs that were at risk– 6,143 8,600 jobs that were at risk. And who did the buyers of these companies follow? So, 61_percent of the companies that have bought companies that were in the position of creditors' competitions, 61 are companies or industries of the State, 11_percent are from the foreigner, 17_percent are solutions that have been found in the same company and 11_percent have been acquired for an industrial or financing fund. One of the last examples, for example, is from Abantia. We have a list of all these companies, of all that has been achieved, the collaboration between the courts, in this case, the courts and the government, to prevent situations that could have been closed because they were at risk of being closed, because they were in creditor competitions, so they could have kept their business. He was talking to us... you asked a direct question about taxation and corporate taxation and how it affects and whether we agree with the tax ecosystem that works in businesses. So, look, we're absolutely in agreement with the government, and we're so in agreement that that's why we want to manage the taxes that companies pay, that they're corporate taxes. We don't have the capacity to do it, and we'd like to have the capacity to design our tax system. If you tell me the IRPF, if you ask me for that, yesterday's statements from the Vice President and the President of the Generality have already made it clear that there are no discrepancies or concerns here. So, listen, companies and corporate taxation, what we want is for them to be in the hands of the same Generality and, therefore, in the hands of this Parliament, which is who has to have the skills to do all the standards and all the taxation. He was talking about displacement and growth.... I think we have – I think we have it – a relatively positive position today for what he does to the indicators. Obviously, the indicators I have already said, there are indicators in the first quarter of 2016 that have slowed down with respect to what was at the end of 2015 or the 2015 overall, but they continue to grow and continue to feel positive. I, in the face of the future – in the face of the future – must say that 2016, in the first quarter, 6,369 trading companies have been created, which means a 26_per_cent and a half more than the same period of the past year, and is the highest xifra in the first quarter of the crisis. And, besides, Catalonia leads the constitutions of commercial societies in the State, huh? , in the first quarter, with a 21,6_percent of all that has been done. So – so – for the future, business growth, business growth, still there are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.22.0	Thank you, President. This talk of aesthetics is wasting us time and, therefore, I will not enter our capillary capacity. Counselor, I don't think you've heard me at all. You have launched, all in all, that is cordial, a certain triumphalist message, which is the one that always ends, therefore, launching here. I don't think it matches reality. In fact, I think he has missed a little bit of the core of my intervention: he has not, in some way, accepted the reality that he would have problems explaining, surely, this reality, to the workers of these companies who are leaving. Even though he has met – and we are very happy that he has met – with Alstom and other companies, it seems that it is not working, at least, the action that his department does. We'd be very, very happy that it was like that. I'm also surprised, but I imagine that this is normal, what I've told you about the linguistic fines, and we'll talk about it another day – or you've prepared it for the end, I imagine – but we would certainly like to be explained to us if this is a measure that helps, therefore, the growth of Catalonia's economic and business fabric. The effect of displacements is especially felt by small businesses, as I have already said and commented: subsidizing large-scale relocations that end up closing. From these companies there are entrepreneurs and autonomists who have very difficult to re-launch a new project. We believe..., and here I want to launch a necessary proposal for the development of second-opportunity measures that allow an entrepreneur, once failed his project, in good faith, to recommence and be able to join a company without flushing all previous debts or starting a new project. What measures do you think you can do or could your government do on this line? He also set out to work – and I continue with my proposals – because in the end he wanted to be and wanted to make an intervention, therefore, a proposal. I have already told him that I believe that in the end displacements are not the cause of a single element, but of different elements, and there is a series of proposals that we will also possibly bring to the next motion, that we believe can add and improve the situation and avoid many of these displacements. Have you worked to develop a career guidance program for workers who are in business in reindustrialisation processes, exactly? Training is another enrichment factor in our industrial ecosystem: how does its department work with the SOC to bring these specific trainings to an end? Have they intended to link, involve, reindustrialisation programs with talent return programs? There are risk situations that can sometimes be turned into opportunities. Displacement is supposed to run away from knowledge and experience, but an appropriate return policy can reverse this situation. We believe, too, that foreigners' offices of action must be used to work on the return of talent to Catalonia and must do so in collaboration with Icex. The Catalan business ecosystem cannot live side by side and requires development, a concept that many times you..., or the development of a concept that you sometimes systematically escape, that are synergists, synergists with other administrations and with the Government of Spain. What synergistic actions are taking place after you have arrived as a counselor? And now I'm going to talk about three proposals that we think we can add, with other factors, to infrastructure. And I'm launching it right now... we need the Government of Catalonia to ensure the deployment of the optical fiber network. What are you doing? Is there any plan to develop a suitable optical fiber web? We have to add to this situation the landing in the works of the Mediterranean Corridor. We'll join them; will you join them and come and leave the inaction they've had until now and join them to accompany us to the Courts and ask for the Mediterranean Corridor? Will they also accompany us to exercise or change the energy policy that, until now, the People's Party has been legislating? We believe that it is a good thing that cogeneration processes are favoured, to promote self-management skills to the energy demand of companies. Will the Government of the Generality participate in a common strategy, for a new Spanish energy system in which we expect it to be a new European brand? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] If the time was up, as I had commented, but it is obvious – it is obvious – that in many of the aspects I have commented on we can – we can – hear. But it is also obvious that the policies implemented so far leave very clear results of lack of capacity to avoid displacements; it is very important that we stop them, because we dislodge many times knowingly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.23.0	Mr. Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.24.0	... delocalize – I finish, president – experience...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.25.0	...it's been a while since the time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.26.0	...and ultimately what we do is import unqualified jobs to Catalonia. So, we're working on this line...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.27.0	I see that this minute of punctuality is taken seriously, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.28.0	...and maybe he'll find us there. Thank you, President. I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.29.0	The next item is the question to the government about tourism policy... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, he forgave – he forgave. Counselor, huh? He'd let it go unspeakable. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.30.0	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.31.0	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.32.0	On the pateixi, president. [[Pause.]] Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, I've told you the results. Borrowing..., risk map. Jobs that were at risk in Catalonia in situations of relocations or business closures, 39,000; saved until now: 30,000, 29,000, more than 75_per_cent. I therefore believe that this is a positive action on the part of all the administrations, and not just the administrations, the administrations, the unions and the companies, and here we are all, and also the political forces, which also intervene in these areas. You said... you spoke to the first intervention, you made a reference to industry and industrial policy, yes? We're a government we want... we want to bet, for industry. And he does. In this sense I would say that we are a government for the industry. And because... we don't forget, and this is one of the things that..., here we agree, we agree with you, because you said: "Industry is the great oblivion when..., or "industrial policies are the great oblivions when economies go well. So, yeah, they were, and that's how he was reported. And we believe that it must be, in industrial policy, active, and governments must have industrial policy. That industrial policy is not a mistake; governments must have industrial policy. Governments must not be the enforcers of industrial policy, the enforcers of industrial policy are the very ones making the decisions. We have to create conditions and we have to create climates. When there's a displacement process, how does it work? So, it's working together, obviously, it couldn't be any other way, between the Department of Enterprise, to look for possibilities for reindustrialization, and the Department of Work, to minimize the effects it has on the workers and then... [[Funnel veils]] – Yes, it is true... –, and then to minimize the effects on the workers and also if these workers are going to the point, so that there are opportunities for relocation. Yes, it is, and with the SOC we do. He told me that Action's offices were also proactive in capturing talent, that he went away. Well, in talent capture, investment capture, and business opportunity capture. At these times – at these times – the office of, let's say, taking investment from Action, Catalonia Trade & Investment, has a portfolio of live study projects..., 277 live projects that can come here, to Catalonia – 277. If all of us come – we don't know when they will come –, if all of us come, that would mean 2,200_millions of inversion and almost thirteen_ thousand jobs created. Therefore, this is the work we do, and we do it in collaboration with all administrations as well. You've been talking about the many languages. Look, I said it the other time, in the oral question: we, our option is not to do many languages. You say: "There is no country I asked for. No, no, I'm sorry, all the countries demand it, all the countries demand that they label themselves in their language. [[Funnel veils]] , oh so much – and so much –, all of them. And we, the Catalan law says at least in Catalan – at least – and the rest of the countries say they all have to be labeled; at least we all have to be labeled. When a person..., there are no linguistic fines the first time there's an inspector: there's a time, it's told; there's a second time, and it's not until the third time that there's these fines. So, there's a first pedagogy process and then there's a fine process, because if there's a penalty, there's a law that will teach you this, and the law passed it by Parliament with a majority, and we'll apply that law. In the matter... you said, for purpose, in the matter of infrastructure? Listen, optical fiber network, yes; all those actions, we have a program to extend it we are willing to listen to any initiative that is directed at favoring the implantation of networks. Mediterranean Corridor? Well, in any case, we did not inaction; we have followed and led the Mediterranean Corridor's complaint process long ago. Listen, welcome – welcome – in any case, you, too, to this common front, and to see if something that you are looking for for your own, which is of a laundering logic, at the end of the day you have made this reality, but here all the pressures and all the common fronts will be welcomed. And in terms of energy policy, we are willing to listen to its project, which is, and if it is a project that is absolutely different from what is at this time, from what is being applied at this time in the Spanish State, it is here, because, as I recall, we have resorted to everything, we have more than twelve standards, laws, decrees and orders made by the Government of the State in terms of energy policy that we have challenged to the different institutional areas, namely the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court or the contentious Court, because this is a model that does not guarantee competitiveness of businesses, or the economies of families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on tourism policy]] [[300-00055/11]] The 14th item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on tourism policy, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. To expose her, has the word Ms. Montserrat Candini.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.34.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, it is certainly a good opportunity for me today to be able to ask Councillor Baiget for what he is doing on the subject of tourism policy. While we are all well aware that tourism, beyond being an industry that generates 12_percent of our gross domestic product and an active element of territorial balance, tourism is also our first external projection channel. We are one of the most diverse destinations in Europe, and that is why, if we do not lead it, we are at the first positions of all European tourist destinations in cultural tourism, gastronomic tourism, coastal tourism, nature tourism, snow tourism, mountain tourism, crevices, meetings and congresses, as well as camping, sports and rural tourism. This diversity is what actually makes us competitive and brings us solid as destination, but it is what gives us strength and balance as the international brand. Tourism is much more important for the progress of our country and for our projection, and also a huge pole of attraction, as I say, international. The Mediterranean lifestyle, our privileged geographical location, the mild climate, the quality of the environment, the welcoming experience of our people, the excellence of our gastronomy or the quality and diversity of cultural proposals, all of them are factors that make us leaders as a destination. At the same time, we are also attracted to territories that are recipients of investments, talents, projects, and, ultimately, and at the end of the day, all this is economic progress. It is perfectly compatible our competitiveness as a tourist destination with the guarantee of the quality of life of our fellow citizens. We have to minimize the negative externalities that can cause – yes – tourism. Catalonia has a very diversified economy, where tourism acts as one of the tractor axes in the measure that Catalonia remains competitive precisely for this important economic factor. Four dates that are often said, many times, at the beginning of the season or at the end of the season, but I don't know how well we are fully aware of this positive impact that this factor that represents tourism has. And it is that the year 2015 has arrived, for example, to Catalonia more than 17,417,000 tourists from outside the Spanish State, a 3,7_per_cent more than the previous year. The income generated for foreign tourism has amounted to more than 15,600_million euros; in terms of average daily spending per tourist it has increased by 2.81_per_cent, being 121_euros in the period of January-September. For markets, highlight the good behavior of the two main markets issued by tourists, which are France and the United Kingdom, with growth, up to and including 8,2_per_cent and 6,7_per_cent; in the case of the United Kingdom, spending has almost increased by 10,4_per_cent. Other markets that have behaved very well have been the United States market, with an increase of 25.9_per_cent in the name of tourists, and especially emerging markets, such as Southeast Asia and Brazil. Precisely in these three territories, nine tourist promotion offices have been opened. Emerging and winter markets therefore account for 25_percent of total spending in Catalonia and 13_percent of tourist names. Catalonia, therefore, is consolidated as the first state destination to reach foreign tourists, with a 25.6_per_cent of the total foreign tourism of the Spanish State. Thus, during the first three quarters of the year 2015, the Catalan tourism sector occupied between 360,000 and 406,000 people, representing between 12 and 13_percent of the total Catalan occupation. That said, if it is true, counselor..., I want to say, in any case, if I may, in my condition..., now, logically, I am a deputy, but also in my condition of mayor of touristic municipalities, that we cannot fight, let us say, when we call "the tourism of drunkenness without a firm compromise on the part of all the administrations, so, logically, on the part of the assemblies, that set up the joint of our country as well, logically, on the part of the Government of our country, the Government of Catalonia, and, logically, therefore, the council that you are running. Because, Counselor, what we are clear about is what we are mayors, what we are clear about, and I think that also on the part of the government, is that touristism of inciivism cannot be negotiated. Those entrepreneurs who think that of the inciivism and of the behavior of being able to manage a nixol of the market that has to see with others more far, let us say, of the civic behavior and, logically, therefore, mature of any person who visits a destination, that it is the good behavior, that it is the good practices, the good citizenship, as in some way or other to which it is to know a world, a culture, a territory, an environment, to interact with all that represent the values of the territory..., if any entrepreneur is thinking that of the inciivism in can make negotiations, I ask, in any case, counsel, that the message, as we have made some municipalities, the message on behalf of the Government of the Generality remains clear and clear: if there is no need. And drunkenness tourism is an incisive act; drunkenness tourism is a neoliberal act on the part of those entrepreneurs who think they will make four people hard, as I said before – I don't know exactly how it should be said now –; of those entrepreneurs who think that working three months will be able to live twelve months; of those entrepreneurs who think that their destination isn't with him, just as an opportunity to, somehow or otherwise, speculate on the territory. It's more than just reality. Therefore, I can explain to him, in any case, in my condition of mayor, that we have unfortunately had small experiences later, three years ago, many years ago..., that, logically, I believe that the tourism of drunkenness has practically been settled, but certainly there can always be, therefore, those conates of intention. And I remember, now it will be three years, on a bridge of the month of May, as, therefore, a..., let's say, a businessman, concretely, considered that on that bridge it was worth it to come, therefore, a conjunction of four hundred people, of four hundred very young girls – very young – under the proclamation, under the, let's say, propaganda of: "Come, drink to the price you want, all day, sex, erase and total freedom. I believe that this, more than it hurts so much, and so much – and so much – a good opportunity for so many entrepreneurs, that, at least, I can say, from my more direct knowledge, that it is, practically, 99_percent of the entrepreneurs who work, so let's say it, as a condition without that, not that quality is the important thing, but, in the face of quantity, I believe that for those people who have not yet understood that corporate culture is based, above all, on good practices, it is very important, therefore, that there is certainly a clear message. And, also, this message, this need, counselor, a coordinated work from all the assemblies, especially, logically, from the tourist municipalities, together with the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Institutional network, maximum coordination. Maximum coordination, too, from the point of view of information: keeping in the minute zero all the information, the same way we commit ourselves by..., those that we are, therefore, mayors and mayors of the council of the municipalities, logically, also, to move and work at this level of institutional network. But for all this that negates us and worries us, that we know that the good tourist practices of the 99_per_cent, therefore, of the entrepreneurs, are the ones of these good practices, the quality, but, against the quantity, yes, but counsel, and I would like to say, to end, that those that we are municipalities and that we bet, therefore, and that we have this, let us say, great concern, how is the government acting to stop it? What is the government's bet on tourism quality, therefore, of our country? What measures is driving the government to achieve quality in tourism? And, above all, who are those measures that, in a clear way, come to... – I don't like to use this word, but sometimes they only use these words –, which is to punish clearly those who use incivism as an element of economic productivity. Many thanks, counselor; many thanks, to all.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.35.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.36.0	Thank you very much, President. Many thanks, honourable Member, thank you for your inquiry, Member and Mayor, as you have said, from a municipality which pioneered our country in terms of tourism in the half of the past century, and which has been able to reconvert and reinvent itself in order to continue to be in front of the touristic municipalities of our country, which is what needs to be done and which is the work that must not only be done by the administrations, but also primarily by the businessmen, the hoteliers and all the people involved in the tourism sector. You have done this in your intervention: tourism is important in our economy, and it is in quantitative terms, you have said: 12_percent of our GDP, 12_percent of employment; but it is also in qualitative terms, because tourism is a sector that ends up induced or feeling tractors from other economic sectors, such as services, trade, maintenance and sub-administration. And tourism is also a factor of territorial cohesion, because it allows the growth and economic progress of parts of the territory, which without tourism are more difficult. And, therefore, that's fine. The swing, you did it. The balance of 2015 is a good year: more than 22_million tourists, an increase of 5.4_per_cent; of these, 17_million_i_mig foreign tourists, 75_million overnight stays and more than 15,000_million in billing and expense for foreign tourists. In addition, 26_per_cent..., Catalonia is and attracts 26_per_cent of foreign tourists arriving in the State. Therefore, Catalonia is a tourist destination, you said, an important tourist destination. We are a tourist power in the Mediterranean and we are the second destination in Europe, after Paris and the Île de France. So, this... So when we talk about tourism we are not talking about a more sector, we are talking about a trunk sector to our economy, as it is, and as we were talking before, our industry. Moreover, the first results of 2016 tell us that this year, therefore, will continue to feel a good year. It can be, and will be, "Well, because there are geopolitical aspects and international conflicts that can benefit the coming of tourists to our country. Well, yes. But we are serious injustices – we are serious injustices – if we name the task that has been done in the last few years in order to position Catalonia as a tourist destination of quality. And this is an effort to please a lot of people, huh? In particular, the sector must be aggravated to the administrations involved and to the whole ecosystem of the tourism sector around our country. You said: "We have to make a bet for quality. Yes, positioning Catalonia as a quality tourist destination means that we need to be more concerned about the expense that tourists do and whose activities tourists do in our country, rather than the name of tourists. That's what we have to try to do. We have to do..., and we have to do it in the area of coastal and sea and beach holidays, and also in the areas that can complement each other, such as: cultural, heritage, gastronomic, natural tourism, sport tourism. It is necessary to move forward in some types of state that combine these elements and position Catalonia as it is: a destination. Catalonia is a small country and we have the fate that it is a diverse country, and therefore we must take advantage of it. We have to take advantage of and we have to adapt to our offer these needs and these wills of the people who can come and who can attract to our country. You said: "How do we differ from the different tourist areas? How does it bet on tourism quality and what is the government doing to avoid, therefore, that there are activities and offers that we do not want? And you made a reference to the tourism you didn't say "drink." [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah... one of the bets we're doing... this bet for the best quality is persecution, right in the area of advertising control. We control all the advertising that is done and that can damage the image of our country as a tourist destination of quality. And the department has set itself, as a priority of action, the persecution of the names of 'drinking products', which damage our image, which negatively affect in terms of the quality and competitiveness of our destination and which promote risk-of-health behaviours for people, and, precisely and mostly, in age segments that are susceptible to special protection, such as young people. And we did. I with control? We have done this from the institutional actions of cross-cutting inspectors, in which there are various departments: the Department of Salvation for public salvation, our department, other departments, guaranteeing..., and which have given their fruits avoiding – avoiding –, for example, the celebration in Salou of this event that was the Caribbean Spring Break, eh? That it was an event made in France that announced sex... [[Funnel veils]] , yes: unlimited sex and orgies, and drunk and drunk and drunk free. So, this... we made this pressure and we got rid of it. And you said, "What shall we do? And what's it gonna take? Look, we've addressed ourselves by letter, from the department to all the establishments, and we've told them that if we find an establishment that there is... that gives cover to an event of these, we will expel this establishment from all the promotion channels that the Administration has, in these cases, of the Generality, the Catalan Tourist Agency. This means that it will not be able to participate either directly or indirectly, already through entities of territorial promotion, associations, associations or whatever, in activities of promotion, marketing and commercialization that has been organized for the Catalan Tourist Agency. We'll kick them out and we'll stop them... and we won't promote them. Likewise, we will revoke all those certificates of quality, of speciality, seals, marks and distinctions and authorized categories. I mean, there can't be an establishment that has a family tourism seal, and that has family tourism certification, and then it's ready for these practices. Here we have the support of the majority, we have this fate: the majority of the sector and especially the local administrations are fighting and working together with the Generality to eradicate this. And thanks to this unit of action we have been able to eradicate these certain activities and we have been able to minimize, at least, certain activities that have taken place, for example, in Salou and in Lloret. But this is our determination, and with this being strong: we won't allow it, we won't participate in the promotion actions, and all the quality tourism certifications that can be obtained are removed. What else do we do? So, we're working on regularization of tourist accommodation establishments, because in the strategic area it was estimated that Catalonia had some 500,000 places of tourist accommodation in an irregular or illegal situation. Currently, we have not regularized 280,000, which would assume, approximately, a 58_percent of all the offer or all the habitat that had been detected. In this period, 49,876, which means 269,000 places, and in establishments of tourist apartments, we have managed to have 200 establishments register, which means more than 11,000 places we have. We've done the same with control of our offer through inspections. We have done more than 11,300 inspections, from which there have been 2,767 shippers who have turned into 720 sanctioning shippers who have at present imposed 543 sanctioning resolutions and a total of 2,200,000 fines. That's what we're doing. We are also acting against those digital intermediation platforms and portals that offer apartments and housings without – without – giving to the housing..., without registration number. And there are 11 companies that we have agreed to and from here they already make an offer and only present the offer of apartments and places that are legal and that are high and are registered, and against those companies, in which there is Airbnb, that have not given us..., we have been pushing a judicial process and a complaint process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.37.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on State Government Investments and Timeliness of Trains]] [[300-00056/11]] The 15th item on the agenda is an inquiry into the Government's investments in the Government of the State and the punctuality of the trains, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. To expose it, has the word Lord Gerard Gómez del Moral, who speaking of punctuality... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.38.0	President... Members, Members, Councillor, as you can see, a serious issue, talking about punctuality, today, saying, talking about my own, that I did not come by train, but we have arrived just to be able to ask the Government about an issue that we are really concerned about. We're worried and we're concerned and, in fact, we're also worried about the Councilman and the Government of the Generality, because we haven't been talking and we've seen it, have we? But also with two meetings with representatives of Adif, of the ministry, which I take advantage of... – and I will do more in advance – but also ask him how they went, because the truth is that we are used to this, when it comes to Madrid, so things don't get used to working out well. He said: 'An inquiry into the state's investments and the punctuality of trains. This was the statement, this was the question that today, from Junts to Yes, our parliamentary group, we wanted to raise. Because the truth is that the concern is very big, it's huge, and we're often in front of some data that are... – I know that maybe the adjective can sound strong – but, that they're businessable, because we're talking about a public service that ultimately serves people..., to students who go to the faculties or who go to study, to workers who go to their place of work, to people who need to move and who have the public mobility service with the tool to be able to move and that, therefore, that Renfe and the state rail service donate this absolutely businessable service in our country is a question that we really and very much care about. In 2014, and that's what I'm saying to locate a little bit of data, according to the Idescat, and the data from the same department, Rodalias had about a little over 100_million travellers; 106, almost. And the regional service had, counting only those starting and ending in Catalonia, not the intercommunal ones, which have been grouped together, counting only these, 8.6_million travellers. Therefore, we are saying that it is a service that affects many and many people: its mobility and its day-to-day. And that the leave of the State stifles the conditions of many citizens, that day after day they see how they leave them pulled in stations, how their train goes up permanently late and how, in the end, their daily life is affected by some decisions or by the lack of some decisions and investments by the State that stifle the quality of life of our people. And for us, that we are a group that we are trying to make a new country, that we are trying to look to the future, that we are trying to build a different state model, the question of infrastructure, the question of railways, in this concrete case, is a question that we really care about and care about a lot. And, therefore, we can today express our absolute concern, and I said before, concern for a servant who is not. You can talk about regionals, which are – the last dice you gave, right? – therefore, these validations, these more than 8_million validations they have in one year. And let me refer, in concrete terms, to the regional service that exists in the Lands of the Ebre. And the platform's worthy trains... that, by the way, I know, and they were very grateful, didn't they? , that the new advisor and the new department immediately found themselves there and met and tried to approach one of these..., well, various of these problems that exist in these, above all, two lines: R15... In which he goes from the Catalan legislature, which we often say is short, with the divided_months, so, only with what we carry from the legislature – disembarkation, generation, fever... –: three derailments, three derailments due to lack of reversal and ill-being, so as not to repair such ones in which they had provoked detachments since the year 2014, and we are to 2016. For lack of reversal, minimal maintenance in the infrastructures, for example, of the R15, which has accumulated in a quarter 177 incidents. Or why not talk about the R16? , which is the one that accumulates the most incidences– 245, seems to me– in the same period of time; that trains come out knowing that they will arrive fourteen minutes later in the best of cases, and that, therefore, this absolutely affects the mobility of all the people of the Lands of the Jews and of all the people who are moving by train to the Lands of the Jews. The R16 has a punctuality of 28,31_per_cent, that is to say, more than 70_per_cent of the times the people who bid on this train know that they will arrive late, and this is absolutely entrepreneurship. And it is absolutely entrepreneurship that the Spanish Government maintains these precarious conditions, so precarious, and condemns the people, in this case of the Lands of the Jews, to such an absolutely deficient service, because in the overall of the regions the punctuality is of the 49, according to data of the same department. And that, therefore, is really a matter of absolute concern. But if we go to Rodalies, it's a little better, but it's not to throw away. The R3, which is the third line more, say, damaged, the one that passes through Parets del Vallès – if I did not say, the president of our group will surely get angry – which accumulates 144 incidents in the same period of time, and which spills missing investments without day – without day. And that affects a very important area, which is the axis between Barcelona-Vic, but that passes, therefore, through the Vallesos, above all through the Eastern Valley. Or R4, which even gives the case that they can't absorb new material due to the lack of walker equipment on this run. And in the global Rodalies, in the first quarter of 2016, punctuality has also dropped. And you, counselor, in fact, also referred to a fair week ago, to this question, which has fallen to 86_percent punctuality – 86–, when, by the way, 2008 the Spanish government's plan was that it could reach 99; so, we are at 86 and going down, because by closing 2015 this punctuality was still higher. Therefore, and to the question: Adif proposes now, in view of June 12th... – if I don't get it wrong and you will have occasion now to 'confirm me' –, he proposes to unilaterally change the times; he proposes, in fact, to chronicle his mismanagement. That is to say, knowing that they don't make the investments, knowing that they serve Catalonia badly for what they do to the railway, what they plant is not to fix it, but to say: « Listen'm, we know that we go, we know that we don't invest enough, we know that we serve badly; what we do is to change the times because everything we do badly, so I am institutionalized. And, therefore, there we know that we are serving badly and that we will arrive late, so no, listen, we plant another thing, which is: we make them arrive late directly. Clearly, this seems completely entrepreneurship to us, another time, because it is to let go of the responsibilities of a provider of a public service such as that of railway mobility. So, maybe after the reply, we can talk about it, too, right? But the conclusion is very clear: the Spanish State, for the sake of railway infrastructure, is condemning us to have a bad service, but not to the Government of Catalonia, not to this Parliament, but to the citizens of Catalonia, to all those people who need public transport to move. And now, I have, if I'm not mistaken... – and you can also make it clear to me –, add 126 temporal speed limitations, that 126..., to be temporary, God give it to me! It probably indicates that this may not be very temporary and that this may imply that the reversal that was envisaged was not done. And the State does not listen to the requests of the Generalitat nor does it allow it to do so. Because I would certainly like it today to be able to ask a counselor who can fix this, but sadly, this Parliament, still autonomous today, so the only one that can do is the song of the roundabout, say that this is not right, and ask, precisely, that we are putting all the pressure on the Spanish State because that's why I stopped being here and why we can fix this solution. Therefore, for all this, we ask, and face a future: has there been any new developments in respect? Because the news that comes to us is desolating, and the government's lack of empathy and listening and trying to resolve are assailants, and therefore we do not know if this has improved in the last meetings that you could have with both Adif and the ministry. So, also a little in this plan of the future, isn't it? I know that the councillor has it and that I know that the government has it – but precisely in these hopes of making a new country, the mobility of the people is essential, and therefore that the Spanish government is giving up its responsibilities and making the railway service and, therefore, that the day-to-day life of our citizens is very poor, that cannot be in any case. And therefore, the firmness to improve this problem. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.39.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.40.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Gentlemen, honourable Members; honourable Member, I think you have explained it very well. He perfectly framed who's the subject and who's the problem, and he framed it there where he answers. Here we are not talking about a problem of the Generalitat, but we are talking about a problem of the people, of the users, of the citizens and the citizens of this country who are under a service, therefore, who have some shortcomings that are obvious. This is against the quality of life of our people and against the parameters essential to the economy. That is to say, the fact – and we still don't have it quantified – of the losses that the Catalan economy has because one of the basic elements of our mobility has these low levels of reliability, which is the rolling and regional system. The data you donated, which we explained last week, are simply inadmissible, huh? Therefore, this is a first element, and I thank him that you have placed exactly the gravity center there where you correspond, which is at the edge of the city of this country. The three, the last four, we've been talking about, and now we're also talking about air quality, fighting air pollution. It is very difficult to combat this atmospheric contamination if one of the essential fish, which would be the possibility of transforming the rolling system into an authentic metropolity meter, fails and fails us in what is most basic, which is reliability. That's the problem and that's the background problem. When we talk about the rolling and regional system, it's often confusing things, huh? Many of our citizens speak of Renfe as a category, as a concept, but I think it is worth taking advantage of this inquiry to explain exactly what happened, what happened to the transposition that was done at the time. It is incomplete and incomplete – incomplete and incomplete. Because there are three actors here: Adif, the public enterprise of the Ministry of Development is the owner of the infrastructure, the infrastructure manager, who are the lives, the chains, the stations, this corresponds to Adif. For another band, there is Renfe who is the operator; the operator who sorts the Generalitat of Catalonia but to a good extent the Generalitat is captive, among other things, because they know that in the system of rollers and regionals it operates with Iberian amps and, therefore, there are many few operators that have trains at these times with the ability to pass through these lives. And the Government of Catalonia after that had three things left: set the timetables, set the rates and guarantee the quality of the service. Therefore, let me say this in this terms: we have made a transfer without trains, without lives, without stations, and we have a certain ability to supervise. I have often said that when that transfer was made and there was, let us say, an element of good faith on the part of those who negotiated it, in the sense of saying: "The Spanish State will make the corresponding reversal, that it is 4,000_million euros, and will put the system of rollers and regionals a day. Four thousand million. Do you remember the plan presented by ex-Minister José Blanco, which was a plan for which, in the period 2008-2015, EUR 4,000_million had to be invested? Only 10 per cent of these actions have been performed. That is to say, in the 21st century Catalonia has one line and partly a one-way street – one-way street. Madrid has an excellent rolling stock system – excellent rolling stock. They have 80 kilometres of quadrupled track, which means that in these quadrupled lines there can be semi-direct trains, trains that can be closed to all stations and services that prioritize commercial speed; this is the theme. We have line 3, which today is still unique. And between Arenys de Mar and Blanes we're still speaking uniquely, too. That's the problem. And, therefore, there is a reversal deficit that is a very important deficit. But, in addition, there is a maintenance problem; it is not only that we have not updated the network of regional and roundabouts, but that we have a reliability problem, which is a basic problem. Why are trains coming late? Because there is a problem with the reliability of the line that, you have explained very well, it is expressed, among others, with a question that are the temporal limits of speed. From the Santiago de Compostel·la accident there was a criterion of..., for a precautionary principle, where there may be some incidence is decreed these temporal speed limitations. And to a good extent trains arrive late for just that, for these temporary speed limitations. Galib problems in the tunnels, some themes of sloppy... The problem we have, and you have put it together, is that the Government of Catalonia is not informed: the incumbent of the service is not informed of what temporary speed limitations there are. We're talking in a world of an opacity that's round– round–, to say: we'd be interested in knowing where these limitations are because they're formally telling us. We know a percentage, yes, alt, but we don't know which concrete management it wants to do. And they say more logically, precisely to the holder of the service, who is the one who sets the times..., without telling us in what terms and in what terms it is planted. Now... and you've explained what it is, let's say, the will to resolve this question on the part of the General Administration of the State, on the part of Adif. I mean, there's a very simple way that trains don't arrive late, which is, we incorporate the delays in the timetables. This is the base. Parenthesis: Railways of the Generalitat de Catalunya, which operate, practically, between three hundred and four hundred kilometres of road, level of punctuality: 99_per_cent– 99_per_cent. State Rodalies, in this case operated by Renfe, the punctuality level: 86_per_cent; the last quarter of last year was 94_per_cent, and in a quarter we passed from 94 to 86_per_cent. I, regionals– you have donated this data – we speak of a punctuality of 49_per_cent. This is simply unacceptable, but that's why we want to compare it to General Railways. When we have control of the lives of the trains in the system joint, we have believed that we can properly manage a railway system. That's the point. The last major service that the State provides to Catalonia is the system of regional and rolling stock, and it provides it under conditions that are very poor. We don't want to resign, we want to change. I'm in parentheses. So the idea is: we incorporate these delays in a structural way, we incorporate them. The trains will not be late because the timetables decide to incorporate all the time limits of speed. What do we do with the Government of Catalonia? That they don't accept these unilateral changes. What do I get to do? What did we propose should be done? To say: "We agaph and pact a change of hours, yes, but with a clear and expressed awareness of when the works begin to overcome these temporal limitations of speed and when the works end. And let the citizens, the users of this system know exactly that temporarily they change the times because there is a forecast of action and reversal. That would be the logic, that would be the sensible, that would be the reasonable. And last week we had two meetings, one with Renfe and the other with Adif, and these meetings didn't go well, they didn't go well, basically because they didn't give us the corresponding information, they didn't give it to us; and, for another band, because it continued in this line, with this scheme of maintaining this unilateral will of time change. It gave an incomplete and incomplete transposition, because the corresponding investments had not been completed. Tanmateix, you were asking me what's new. There's something new and it's something new from that perspective. After meetings, which went badly, I had the opportunity to talk to the Minister of Development, personally, by phone. There is a commitment from the Ministry of Development, the Minister of Development, not to modify the timetables without the view of the Government of Catalonia, and, therefore, we progressed from this perspective. But now what we have to look at is how we do it, how we plant it. Because the theme is not time, the theme is investment. What it is that there are concrete investments and a package of measures to resolve this circumstance, to attack the basic element, which are these temporal speed limitations. And, therefore, what I transferred to the minister is: "All right. It's sensible, they can't change unilaterally, but what we need is a clear and explicit investment package. And, on the other hand, what I would like is to be able to ask for a compromise from the House of Commons' joint parliamentary groups for this not to be done alone by the Government, but to do so together; because this is a problem that, as you said, does not affect the Government of Catalonia, affects the citizens of this country. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.42.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, we agree, I suppose it's not new, we're from the same group, but it's..., and surely to the people of Catalonia Yes, it's I can save it..., but that's it – that's it – because we're all concerned about the quality of service to the people – to the people – not to the Government, not to Madrid, no, no... The problem we're worried about is: the quality of service to the people who are moving with the train. And that's why I understand that we're equally concerned, because we're from the same group and we're equally concerned, too, that you, or I'd like to think about that. But, exactly, if we put our focus, too, it's in the incompliments. The counselor referred to it. And let me, in this turn of the line, refer to one more mike. Why, of course, there's been a lot of plans already, from Madrid, right? , and the last one, in 2008, with a controversial minister, as was Pepe Blanco, was approved a plan to invest 4,000_million euros to modernize... – because the same State said that the service they were providing and the infrastructure there in Catalonia was not reasonable –, to modernize all this infrastructure, and, today, about 10_per_cent has been executed. Clearly, the incompliments are continuing: poorly maintained, and this we have seen, sadly, with the fire that there was at the abandoned station of..., past the Clot, which caused significant chaos. There was another fire in Arc de Triomf, a few months before. Therefore, poor maintenance of its own infrastructure. Saturation due to a lack of sustained investments over the years, right? , of the tunnels of Barcelona and other interchanters is well known for everyone. At the security level... – and this is also a question that the department, in its day, also posed above the table, right? – that is, for example, the ERTMS system, that Barcelona, despite having one of the most saturated tunnels of the Spanish railway network, does not have the system, while to the lines with the most saturation of Madrid since the year 2012 in Gaudeixen. Clearly, that's the problem, isn't it? , is the systemic failure of the Spanish Government for what it does to the Catalonian railway network, and above all for non-investment in nine or better works needed for the service. You meant we have one of the longest single-way trams in the railroad. And I did that last night, didn't I? I was just preparing a little intervention... of course, I found this newspaper clipping. [[the orator shows a full to the chamber]] , and I'll tell you the date, because obviously from here you can't see, but it's long before I was born, on October 5, 1980, which I said: "Renfe, probably double way from Vic to Barcelona. Five October 1980. Thirty-six years ago. From Montcada to Vic, obviously, everybody knows, if you're a train user, that doesn't work. A few days later, the front page of today's newspaper [[the orator shows a full to the chamber]] he said, "Emergency plan for Renfe, isn't it? I said: « The General Railway Plan 1981-1992 – because precisely at that time, October 1980, it was moving – « it is a necessary measure, but the current investments are needed to renew the network, because from 12 years ago this is still competitive. It seems reasonable, but it is urgent to improve it now. And so he could follow, betray it..., year 94, the mayors claim in Madrid the best of the line of the train of Puigcerdà, because it is not only Barcelona-Vic, it is also Ripoll-Puigcerdà ; he could follow with year 97 ; he could follow with year 2000, 2005, 2008, on the same plateau of 2008, of the Ministry of Development, already contemplated, for example, the unfolding of the R3 of Barcelona or of Montcada, go, to Vic. Or in 2008 it was also contemplated the unfolding, in that same plan, I insist, not of the Government of the Generality, not of the Parliament, no, no..., of the Ministry of Spanish Development, for example, from Arenys to Blanes. The problem, as you said, is the incompliments. The concern is the people's railway service, and the problem is the Spanish State's systemic incompliments that make Catalonia's citizenry have a very poor service for what it does for public transport. Therefore, we insist, counselor, and add to his call that we do not only do this, but that we do it all, because, in the end, what concerns us... – and in this concrete parliamentary group, which is working to make a new country and make a better republic – is what concerns us, above all, is the service that we lend to citizenship and that our people can train to university, to work or to convince them, with the guarantees they deserve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.43.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the word has the counselor, Mr. Josep Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.44.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, this is, basically, the scheme. I said that what we are doing is a long-range approach, and what we say is: "Now we have to act concretely, but we will have to change things for them. We want to manage everything, and here we have said it many times; maybe this, let's say, would be the delinquent is Carthago of our department. We don't want to blame Madrid. This serves no purpose to the users of the rolling stock and regional system. What we want is to have the ability to make our own decisions. We don't want to be responsible, we don't want to be hostages to other people's mistakes, but we want to be responsible, eventually, for our own mistakes. Because, I insist, we have believed that we can well manage a good system of regionals, a good rail system, and General Railways, in this sense, express it. That is why we have tabled a package of proposals in this Parliament, a package of measures, so that all the internal lines are gradually transferred. That's the point. When we say to the department: what lines do we want to prioritize that we pass through? The R3, the hardest, the most complicated. That's what we want to do. But now we have this question, and the scheme is very simple, it has three different parts: Adif wants to unilaterally change the timetables to integrate the delays, the minister is committed to putting an end to this will of Adif, with a common and logical sense. But we don't have enough, which is the compromise of investments, of concrete investments. That's the basics. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, that the problem is not the timing, the problem is not the timing change, the issue is the reversal that falls into our system, a concrete set of investments that, from the start, allow us to overcome these temporary speed limitations. This is the basic question. And, therefore, what we are asking you, in the line that you pointed out – and that you, Mr. MP, also pointed out – is a compromise that we can make with the subsequent motion of the chamber joint. This is the scheme: a landing with a double time horizon, a first one with immediate character, to say: "Agafem and we want the information. Without this information the Government of Catalonia is simply a stone guest, and we do not want to be a stone guest. We want to decide on everything that affects the citizens of Catalonia on a day-to-day basis, and what we want is for this clear and concrete action to be taken. There is someone who tells us: "Home, you are condemning the citizens who do not know when the trains will arrive. We change, we change these times, but with a concrete compromise of the investments. Clearly, let's imagine, let's say, the timetables that the citizens have, that say: "Listen, temporarily to the R3, or to the R15, or to the R16, there will be an increase in the journey time for these reasons, which will start on that day and end on that other day. This is the basic scheme of work and this is the scheme that I proposed to the Minister of Development. It doesn't make sense, it doesn't – and after the data, it's terrible, huh? , of increasing impunity during the last four months – that we do not move in this parameter. Therefore, let's agree on this feeling and work together. It's not the same as, as a territorial and sustainability advisor, you're setting up the Ministry of Development, the Government of the State, which is a widely shared settlement for this chamber, because this is an absolutely cross-cutting issue, of the quality of life of the people of this country. And, secondly, we go further, and we go with this transitional scheme to have more decision-making capacity, to have full control of this system of regional and rolling stock. And, in the last instance, and here there will be a majority of this chamber that says that the way to solve it is definitely that we, therefore, can function as a normal country, that has full control of everything that affects its citizens. And from this perspective, if there is any, some very concrete point, that sovereignty is perfectly operational, it is precisely in this specific camp. We're not talking about institutions, we're talking about people, and that's why the citizens who require us are the highest level of determination and compromise to solve a matter that you've solved. And this is the basis of our work plan. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.45.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Project of the Law of the Statistical Pla of Catalonia 2017-2020 and of modification of the Law 23/1998, of 30 December, of the Statistics of Catalonia (debate of totality)]] [[200-00005/11]] The next item on the agenda is the debate on totality on the draft law of the Pla estadístico de Catalunya 2017-2020 and amending the Law 23/1998, of 30 December, of statistics of Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative is presented on behalf of the Government of the Generality, Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.46.0	Good morning, everybody. Thank you, President. Members and Members, the statistical word in all neollatin languages is related to the word'state'; only in Catalan we use statistics in place of'statistics', which would probably correspond to it. But, in any case, beyond this reference of etimologic character, what is relevant is that any public administration needs instruments, a statistical instrument to know the reality. It's a way of getting right, of sorting out this reality and having the ability to hear it and, also, in the long term, to modify it. In fact, the competence over statistics of interest of the Generalitat de Catalunya corresponds with an excluded character to the same Generalitat de Catalunya. This is a competence that includes statistical planning, administrative organization and the creation of an appropriate official statistical system. The Catalonian Statistical Law deploys these skills and establishes that the Catalonian Statistical Pla, the PEC, which is defined as the ordering and planning instrument of the Generality's statistical interest, must be approved by the law of the Parliament with a quadrennial periodicity. The deployment of the Statistical Platform is to be carried out with annual statistical programmes approved by the Government on the proposal of the adviser or adviser of the corresponding department. This, therefore, will be the sysena llei del Pla estadístico that is submitted to the Parliament of Catalonia, after the laws of the plans of the periods 92-95, 97-2000, 2001-2004, 2006-2009, 2011-2014. This new plan, in addition to responding to the legal mandate provided for the Law of Statistics of Catalonia, also presents essential changes of conception. In this sense, the plan wants to give response to the change in data production model and data dissemination, production and statistical dissemination, which has already occurred in the most developed countries of our environment in two fields: one, improving access to information with statistical purposes, and two, enhancing the coordination mechanisms of the Catalan statistical system. The general objectives of the Statistical Platform could therefore be summarized in four main points: the first, to consolidate and expand the statistical information available in the statistical system of Catalonia; the second, to enhance the integration of the statistical information of Catalonia; the third, to promote the increase in the use of statistical information for the purposes of scientific research and research, also, and the evaluation of public policies, and, in fourth place, to improve the coordination of the statistical system of Catalonia, both in production and in statistical dissemination, especially in the management of the quality of the processes and of statistical products. The structure of this bill is done in two great titles: the first title, dedicated to the Pla estadístico de Catalunya 2017-2020, is ordered in six chapters and twenty-two articles, and the second title, the second title, related to the modification of the Law 23/1998, of 30 December, of statistics de Catalunya, contains four articles; it also incorporates a derogation provision of the Law of the Pla estadístico de Catalunya of the year 2011-2014 and an annex with the ordered description of areas of activity of the pla. The bill changes the scheme of the 2011-2014 Law of the Statistical Pla into eight areas. The first, change from previous planning, which was ordered around strategic axes, general objectives and activities; it is changed for some general objectives that are deployed in areas of activity. The second, it adopted the totality of the principles established for the Code of Practice of European Statistics – the previous plan, the 2011-2014 Plan, in collection three; this, the totality of these principles established for the Code of Practice of Europe. The third point is the adaptation to the different European regulations relating to European statistics. The fourth, the best coordination of the statistical system of Catalonia, to increase the standards of quality of the statistics. Five, focus on access to the archive and administrative and statistical records held by departments, agencies, public sector entities and enterprises with statistical purposes in terms of maximum efficiency and effectiveness, and in the form that is determined on a regular basis. The sixth, improving accessibility to statistical information for scientific research, research and evaluation of public policies, and the access procedure, as determined by the Government's decree. The set, the update of the contents of the Catalonian Statistical Law, by including a title according to the re-use of administrative information, re-use of data for the search and independence and the appointment of the statistical authority. And, in the eighth place, advance in the better of public statistical information with the creation of the portal of public statistics of Catalonia, instrument that wants to gather on a single platform all the information produced for the organs and institutions of the statistical system of Catalonia, in a structured way, and that in ease, therefore, reuse by the statistical users. With the will that this project of you can be approved before you finish this year and continue implementing 2017, if that's what the plenary considers, the government has called for urgent procedure. And that's why we believe that we need to bring the Catalonian Statistical Platform up to date and that we need to continue with the processing of this bill to the attention of parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.47.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Next, to defend the whole issue presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.48.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Vice President, Catalonia Yes, we have presented the message to the totality of this bill aware of the consequences that acceptance can have in the Plethora of our mandate. In concrete terms, and we are aware, the paralysis at this stage of the Statistical Pla, which should have already been approved with the effects of 2015 generation 1; that is to say, disset_mesos. We are aware that it is a law that we need and that has a certain urgency; so much urgency as it is because of the fact that Catalonia has no statistically updated since the 1st generation of 2015 – now we have extended it – and all the urgency that is because of the fact that until now, for the previous government and this one, it seems that this has not been a priority or an urgency. If today we are operating with an extended statistical plan, which is a prolongation in the time of the Statistical Plan approved for the period 2011 and 2014, it is not a biblical curse, it is like the consequence..., and it will not be the consequence of our totality, it is very likely because of the importance that has been given for a long time to having a valid statistical plan or not, and to keep us in this situation of uncertainty. This has happened with what has happened with many other laws. Today we see the appearance of Mrs. Borràs, Mrs. Borràs, around the themes of housing emergence. The slow development of some policies has much to do with this interregnum that produced the fact that someone decided to put it all behind their interest in an early dissolution of the Parliament, and six months before and six months after, so the country's governance has been in a situation of great precariousness. In short, the good of having a statistical plan, like many other things, gave way to a much higher assumption, which for some meant the early elections and the way it opened up. I want to make this very clear because, I am aware of the consequences of the admission of our task to totality, I believe that it may be a waste for the government to come to us now to say that it is urgent, because urgency would have to be demonstrated at some other time. We are accustomed to constant gesticulation; so much so that a state structure, which you have converted into a government structure with this law..., and I remind you that if the etimologic concept of "statistics" is "state, the etimologic concept of "government is, it seems, the Greek" cybernets, that it is something that seems, isn't it? : the helmsman carrying the boat, giving orders and other rowing. And you're exactly what he's doing with this statistical Pla. Then I'll try to explain. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, with amphores, with amphores with flu, which some ate in due course when they wanted to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.49.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.50.0	For some, a law that approves a statistical plan may seem like a technical law, without political content. Far more than reality: this is a law of deep political burden. Statisticians are powerful political weapons – and you know it as the historian and good historian he is – and his control is even more. Therefore, from this point of view, this law is also the expression of a certain political conception that we do not share, with which we disagree. And there are three reasons that led us to present this task to the totality. I have to say that it was hard for us to make this decision, because, at the first reading of the bill, when we saw it, I, that I am not an expert on this issue, said: "Well, if all that is here is very nice, it is fine. But, of course, then it turns out that the technicians, people who know from within the statistical system of the Idescat, tell us: "Ui, that here there is a very big, very big trap: they are asking you to approve a law that ends up feeling a white check, that the Parliament gives its sovereignty to decide the content of the Statistical Pla, gives it to the Government, governs this function of the Statistical Pla of Catalonia. Ah, then it was when we fell into the need to subdue this plenary's consideration of this issue. There are three reasons that we have to present this goal to the totality. I take this opportunity to say that they are..., it is a theme that we have presented because it is difficult to solve it by means of partial reviews – and now I will try to explain it. First, it supposes a setback in the policies of transparency essential for the country, but especially for the statistical system of Catalonia. In the second place, I have already said, it is a setback or, better said, an advance, in this sense; a setback in transparency and an advance in the process of governmentalization of the statistical system of Catalonia. And, in the third place, one thing that has gone unnoticed to you as well is that, as it is configured, from this perspective, this bill of law, as it stands, clearly presupposes an oblivion of one of the concerns, which should possibly be the greatest concern of the statistical system of Catalonia, and is to provide data, mechanisms, statistics sufficient to analyze in depth the situation of the social cohesion of our country, and, very concretely, the evolution of the issue of inequalities, not only of income and wealth, which should be, in any case, one of the great objectives of any statistical project of any society. Come on, come on, come on, come on, Why do we say that this is an important step backwards in the transparency of Catalonia's statistical system? So, because you don't know, you're avoiding the realization of statistical activities. That's not the law we've approved so far. So far we have approved the law, which when Parliament voted knew exactly what it was voting for. Now I don't think anyone of this room can say exactly what type of statistical system we're voting for right now. And you don't say it, and no one knows it, and that's why the accusation of lack of transparency, to explain it... For example, at the 2011-2014 Plas estadístico de Catalunya, which was approved at the time, with a law approved for this Parliament, which is currently in force and extended, there were 238 concrete statistical activities, grouped into twenty-i-set objectives, which also developed five major strategic axes. Parliament knew, when it was voting on it, exactly what it was voting on. And now you are presenting us with a draft law that makes all this disappear and is replaced by a generic relation of objects with which it is materially impossible to disagree, because, as they say nothing, it is not possible to disagree with something that you say nothing, which is limited to four general objectives and eleven specific objectives. From this point of view, it is clear that there is a sovereignty, a cessation of the political sovereignty of Parliament to the Government, which ultimately involves a loss of transparency with regard to a key issue, which is the issue that we are approving when the Catalonian Statistical Platform is approved. And that can't be solved by means of partial considerations, because it doesn't happen... well, if it can arise, if it can ask the groups that make it the government's fiscal policy, if it can ask that we make it the laws of disconnection, but also ask us to make it the concrete content of the Statistical Platform and to replace the government's political initiative... so then it's asking us already... it's asking us mass. For this reason the counterpart would be to say: "Well, look, you know what? Let him be, and we'll do it. From this point of view, it's not the first time the government has tried this, is it? I want to remind this chamber – I was not there today, but I had the opportunity to prove it – that this is already an attempt to make, for some time now, some groups of this chamber, to try; for example, in the preliminary draft of the tax law of the year 2015, we have article 72, which previews that Parliament will already hold the debate and the concrete approval of the Statistical Pla. That article was definitely not approved, and now you are presenting exactly the same to us for the second time, because this bill is identical to what it was submitted to the previous legislature – which, of course, was an object of concern to the totality of the Catalonia Verds Initiative Group - the United Left and Alternative, and also for the CUP Group - the Constituent Creed, the CUP at its time – which, from the point of view, was not able to submit to consideration for the anticipated dissolution of this chamber. So, well, now you're putting it back to us for the third time and it looks like you're about to achieve your goal if we don't avoid it with our goal of totality, which, in the end, is trying to get through the back door, unless practically no one knows it, that we're adopting a statistical plan that is a full blank, a blank, that the government will decide at its own time, and that Parliament will have the function of being informed afterwards of the decisions of the government. And that's where the second big argument comes in for us, which is that this bill of law supposes an advance in the processes of governmentalization of the statistical system of Catalonia because it supports its approval. And, in this sense, I agree with you: if there is anything – if there is anything – that I have heard, from the point of view of a concept of state, it is a statistical plan. I mean, a state, whatever its configuration, needs a statistical plan, but the state, not the government. It's a matter of state, not government, and this is one of the problems that this bill has. If there is any area that cannot be strictly submissive to government control alone, this is that of a country's statistical system. Statistics play a very important role at the time of building mental marks, of building mechanisms of approximation and interpretation of social reality. We see that, for example, in the tax debate, don't we? I mean... well, we know that. Those of us who have a certain age know that every time the PP bids the Government of the Spanish State, therefore, it turns out that it automatically applies a tax off. He did it at 96 and he did it again when the Rajoy passed. Why? Because, in short, the fiscal outturn presupposes that there have not been enough data to analyse the reality. Okay. This is not exactly the same, but you say to us: "No, this statistic will be done by the government and we will inform you in Parliament. A governmentalization which, moreover, was accompanied by an important issue, which is no less, which is also confirmed on the side of the bill – to which you did not refer strictly, but I do want to refer to 'here' – which is the subject of the modification of some important aspects to the Catalonian Law of Statistics; for example, the one that refers to its governing bodies. It does not cease to be curious that in this bill, you do not regulate what refers to the most collectible organ, which is the rector council, and, in change, you do come to regulate and modify the figure of the director of the Idescat, its functions, the name and the duration of the charge. I, again, insist, we need a system of statistics at the service of the country, not at the government service. And this involves, among other things, mechanisms of choice and duration of the organ – in this case, of the Director of the Idescat – which guarantees the maximum independence of this body. The appointment of the director of the Idescat should be something in which the last word is given by the Parliament of Catalonia, as with other bodies and institutions from which it is intended to preserve its independence. And the duration of his mandate must be sufficiently broad as to enable projects like these to be executed, which require time, but at the same time cannot be submissive to renewal processes. Why? Because we all know that when someone's in charge of renewal processes, that, in addition, they depend on the government, a certain risk and a certain tempt not to bother the government with its action exists. And I'm not prejudging anything less than the current address of the Idescat. But this exists objectively, it is a natural trend of human beings. How do you avoid it? It avoids the establishment of another system of appointment of the director, which, obviously, we will at the appropriate time propose, which consists mainly in..., which we have done in other institutions, which is to have a sufficiently broad term of office but which is not subject to renewal because that is to give sufficient guarantees that there has not been a subordination of the Idescat to the Government of the country, whichever is the Government of the country. There's a third factor that's important. I know that you will pay attention to this, because you are a sensitive person with social issues, especially when you use this teaching function as a teacher who shows us about these aspects, and as a historian, and so... Then, of course... but there is a very important lack, in this law, and it is what makes reference to the great aims of social cohesion that are significantly devalued. They are already devalued because they are not concrete, and therefore remain at free discretion – arbitrariness, depending on how they are used – by the government to return. But from this perspective, with Pla 2009-2014 there was about social cohesion fourteen statistical operations that were linked to a concrete objective, and in this case, in the case of the plan that you present to us today with this law, this disappears. This can have some hard consequences. In this country everyone knows that things that don't exist, that don't emerge, are things that don't have political value. For a long time it has passed and continues to pass with the whole subject of gender discrimination, with constant abuses, it passes with the themes of prevention of occupational risks: if they are not understood to exist, it is difficult to act. Well, we have a drama in our country, which we share with other countries, which is the issue of the evolution of inequalities, not just income or wealth. I suppose we will have an opportunity, too, to discuss it with you when we present our proposal for inheritance tax, which, for which I have seen, also has a theme to the totality of Juntes for the Yes and the People's Party. A new, discreet but compelling majority is being set up on social issues in this Parliament, which no one is talking about, but which is doing their job; yesterday we saw it on two occasions, and for which I am also seeing in tax matters you are setting up..., I do not know if it will be the new majority you were referring to yesterday, in a somewhat ironic way to the question you were asking it; I hope not, I hope it will not be this one that you are thinking of. So, well, the issue of equality, the issue of income and wealth inequalities are tremendously important, and the statistical system of Catalonia, the Idescat, cannot stand from the point of view of this issue. I'm done, Madam President. Mr. Counselor, Mr. Vice President, we value some positive developments in this bill, such as facilitating that the records and records administered are placed in the service of the Idecat. We value something else more, from the point of view... But these three aspects that we have raised seem to us to be difficult enough and important enough to set up this task to the totality; they cannot be solved by partial considerations, and I hope I have convinced the rest of the groups in the chamber – obviously, not the one that I support the counselor, I suppose – that this task to the totality is likely to be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, to fix his position, has the word Mr Alfonso Sánchez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.52.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, we are faced with a new draft law of the Statistical Plan of Catalonia, a renewal within this autonomous competence which we have for a period of four years. In this case we are presented for the period 2017-2020, together with the amendment of Law 23/1998, of 30 December, of statistics of Catalonia. This is the sixth plan presented in this Parliament of 1992, and it is very late. We have come from an extended plan for several years, since the priority of the Government has been to focus its efforts on confrontation and the division of society, rather than doing so for the tasks of this Parliament. The plan that is presented to us aims to obtain the maximum possible data in an agile and effective way in order to be able to produce statistics of public access with which to better know the world around us and obtain a picture of the reality of all areas of Catalonia. We are convinced that many of these data will be very useful for the future parliamentary activity of this autonomous Parliament, of course. But they will also be useful for those who generate these statistics, the citizens. They will allow us to know, for example, the areas of consumption, internal migration, energy consumption per inhabitant and, for example, how many companies leave Catalonia, how many patients remain on waiting lists, what are the workers' working conditions or oral health. I mean, the day-to-day of Catalonia. This plan will be responsible for establishing the methods and their standardization, the fields, the sectors of application, the territories involved, etc.. And of course it must be responsible for its dissemination and therefore for raising awareness on the part of the whole society – I will refer to this later. There have been several changes to the previous plan, but, of course, we think it is better to make a change than not to break it, so later I will position myself with regard to the amendment as a whole. The incorporation of the European Code of Good Practice, which seeks to make more efficient use of the available data available, continues to be achieved through cost reduction, better use of time and a transparent process for citizens. There is also an amendment made by Ciutadans in the previous plan, when we were in the Joint Group with three Members in 2010, where we picked up the need to draw up statistics according to linguistic reality, adding together Catalan, Spanish and the rest of the languages used in other areas. The most outstanding novelty is the edition of the new article 11, where we see that the source of data collection is broadened to produce statistics. In this respect, we understand and hope that the Generalitat will use the data correctly in accordance with existing data protection legislation. Ciutadans, as leaders of the opposition and responsible parliamentary group, will closely follow the parliamentary course of this plan and the respective amendment of the law to ensure the correct use of sensitive data from millions of Catalans. With regard to the authority of the plan, I would like to focus on the statistical area of living conditions and social protection, as an example. And it is that thanks to the statistical plan we will be able to know the scope of parliamentary work on this. We have promoted a great many measures, in the plenary session against poverty, in the law of dependence, in the reduction of the wage gap, in the increase of investment in children, where this Statistical Plan of Catalonia will provide us rigorously as it is influencing the implementation of these measures in the well-being of citizens and the good reception of them in society. Returning to the dissemination of statistical projects. To mention the website of Idescat, very complete, where we can subscribe to the lists of dissemination, consult all kinds of statistics, data, graphics, regulations, conventions, calendars, memories... Despite this, we miss some statistics that are in the National Institute of Statistics but not in Idescat, despite that the source of data is the same. I am talking about global mortality in the health system, or corruption, for example. Will there be corruption statistics in Catalonia? We hope so. Our group will make it possible to follow the process of this bill. We believe that this plan cannot be delayed further in time. This does not mean that we agree to one hundred per cent with the bill: we will dialogue, seek consensus with the rest of the groups and make amendments if necessary. From Ciutadans we hope to draw up a sensible statistical plan of Catalonia, which has all Catalans, depoliticized, reliable, quality and in accordance with the legislation in force. It should also be fully supported by the National Statistical Institute to work together in the same direction. In short, we want the data to be used to compile statistics on the real problems of all Catalans, counting on all and made for all. Thank you very much, Members, Members, Honourable Counsellor, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.53.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The words of Mr Ordeig of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.54.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies and deputies, vice president, director of the Idescat, members of the Government..., well, first of all, to claim, obviously, the importance..., any society that appreciates, is esteemed and wants to go forward must have a modern, efficient and transparent public statistical system that allows, obviously, to evaluate public policies, that follows a complement for scientific investigations and that can analyze from we come, we are and, above all, make accurate projections from the end of the year. The position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the parliamentary processing of the 2017-2020 Law Project of the Statistical Plasma and the modification of the Law of 98 is favourable – it is favourable – to its processing. And in this way, in coherence... as well as making some points in the joint because we think that we can modify some aspects, we will vote against the whole issue. With Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, that we share some thoughts that are more generic..., but in this concrete case we do not fully understand the motivation of the threat to totality, and..., and it has made us compare the four-year plan and the law's modification respect to the modification that we made in 2010. Comparing it practically very similar, the arguments are also very similar and the modifications in the annexes certainly do not bring an important quality value that one should give-there as much relevance as to present an issue to the totality. In any case, each school has to do its own thinking. The Statute of Autonomy gives us exclusive competences in the field of statistics, and so we have to do... Commitment to a statistical system for Catalonia that organizes and analyses, at this time of so many generations of data and of the great potential of its treatment through the new technologies, databases of different public administrations and collaborating organizations, so that we treat them reliably and accessiblely and that they serve, as before, in a decisive way to scientific research and the evaluation of the public policies that women pursue. Everyone talks, everyone thinks, in a subjective way, and so it must be, but surely, statistics allows us to have objective assessments of whether what we are doing here will work tomorrow, of whether what has been done in recent years has given its results in the field of population, migration, in the field of economic, demographic, cultural, technological and social changes. And, obviously, respecting the Data Protection Law. Obviously, they make us a responsible treatment, complementing the law. I, therefore, some doubts that may arise here... so, man! I believe that we cannot put the good before the wound, but expect everyone to act in a responsible way, as it must be, and trusting, obviously, in the independence of the Idecat, of its workers, of its work, and, obviously, to make an accurate, annual – annual – parliamentary control of it, because the law of 2010 says that four-year plans are to be made, which is what we approve here..., by decree – by decree – will be made an annual plan of what will be given to Parliament, and by decree it will make an appreciation of these annual plans, which will be approved..., also be given to Parliament. It was 2010, it says the same change we're making today. Therefore, there are times to follow this execution of these plans, there are times to do a taxation that is really respected..., that there is a good statistical plan and that is respect for data protection and that is actually doing everything on the basis of what we approve today. To do so, changes in the methodology, in the processing of data, in their obtaining, coordination... We need to improve coordination with the collaborating entities, through agreements, agreements. We'll also have to get old, see, these agreements, these agreements, based on what criteria he's a fan. But the huge amount of data you're a fan of..., many times we can't do more data production, but improve your coordination, your collaboration, your treatment, and your unification. Statistical registers, territorial statistics – importantissim, the Catalan territorial area – reliable indicators and dissemination. And the other day we talked to your director: maybe we don't work well, and wait here wait for me statistical portal to help in this..., to make public the statistical portal, the statistical data, the information that can be drawn between the population so that it is a tool used..., the processing of your information that is as clear as possible and as understanding as possible for citizens, for politicians, eh? For all folds. And here's where we'd have to put something, too. Beyond legal discourses, I also make a speech as a Catalan statistical model. I don't think we can fool anyone if we see that the changes we make follow the four-year plans we make since '92. Perhaps, in order to make small modifications and adapt ourselves to the code of good practices of Europe, which is fine – which is fine – and which we have to do, this is not to be done, but to be done, and to changing laws, we should define who is to be the model of reference in which we have to emmirate, which is to be the public statistical system of Catalonia, admiring us in other countries of Europe, in other countries of the world, to see, since we have exclusive competences, here we do have, if we need more resources, if we need more transparency, if we need to complement it..., different, if we need the statistical portal that we propose and that we agree... see where it works well; see where we need more resources, if we need more transparency, if we need to complement it..., if we need the statistical portal that we are proposing and that we agree on... see where we are working well; see where we need more resources, if we need more transparency, if we need to do something else, if we need to do something else, and if we need to do something else. So old and so well-known that it's copying, adapting to our reality other public statistical systems that work. Because then it will also allow us here, to talk a lot and decide things... so see if that works, really. And see if the data, which we sometimes also said, that we might apply..., the update of the data, maybe, sometimes is a little..., up a lot different in time. So maybe we should also see if with more resources, maybe, we can update certain data faster. Therefore, the code of good practices seems to us good; technological changes, adapt them, and take advantage of them and squeeze them to the maximum; collaboration between entities; the appointment of its director independently; professional ability, obviously, and also see the functioning of the Idecat to improve it, among others. The Pla statistique is to be presented every four years. The last was 2014. It has to be done yes or yes. I therefore understand that there may be differences in the wording, but we are two years late and this needs to be done – this needs to be done. Therefore, it does not, in our view, play a role in totality. We've got five four-year plans since '92. It would not be understood that we follow a new legislature without a new plan. The procedure, as I said..., our vote will be 'no at all', it will be 'yes at all at all'. I, then, as I have already commented, finally, some aspects that we believe we need to reinforce, some aspects that we believe we need to improve. Like I said, improve the diffusion. We hope that this can be done through the statistical portal. And if there are other ways or if there are other resources to be allocated, also, between the presupposition 2016 because there is better in the diffusion, then also value it. Improve coordination between entities. Many times it is not to generate more, but to organize better and order better the data that is generated. Resources needed to pull it forward, to pull forward the projects we're talking about. And the better the function of the Idescat. Copy systems from other reference places that work. National system, modern and effective, as he said. And, obviously, data control; data protection, but also a control that is always – always – responsible for the data they generate, huh? , because they are very sensitive data that must be used for the purposes for which they were created. In short, Vice President, MPs, MPs, Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, that has presented the threat to the totality, we will vote against the threat to the totality, in favor of the processing. Obviously, I think we can do more and less, because to the annex, if we can detail a little more, that I don't know if it will bring much added value to the law..., we can do it. But in any case, we believe that this must go forward in order to have a national public system of quality, efficiency, transparency and modernity because it ensures us a better future for all. Many thanks, President, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.55.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.56.0	Thank you, President. Members, Mr Councillor, Vice-President, Professor Udina, Director of the Idescat, it is clear that the Law Project of the Statistical Plastique of Catalonia will not be the most controversial topic of the week, and that at this rate it will still end the most important legal reform of this legislature. That's if it's finally approved, because, as you know, this is a project approved twice by the Government of the Generality, since the first time it was approved was due to the dissolution of this chamber, and it would be interesting if that didn't happen again. The subject we are dealing with, the 2017-2020 statistical platform, is apparently a technical one, although this is not a matter of political importance. Mr. Coscubiela said before the statistic used to shape the mind marks, huh? Sometimes data bounces, doesn't it? , against the mental marks of some people. There are people who believe that what is bad is reality and not its theories. But beyond that, statistics are important, because it allows us to do politics. Small-scale politics, isn't it? Sometimes it's a lot about politics in the capital, with grandioseness, but often it's a way of avoiding the complexity of politics, of the politics that really serves to improve the living conditions of citizens. In this sense, behind the statistics, the fredor of numbers, there are people, and there is a social and economic reality of Catalonia that is plural and changing, each time changing, and it is a reality that needs to be known to do our job well and not to legislate or promote policies based on prejudices. We cannot agree, therefore, that one of the general objectives of the plan should be to promote an increase in the use of statistical information for scientific research, research and evaluation purposes of public policies. Each time the statistical data are more important at the time of defining public policies, also for private initiates, obviously. And, therefore, it is important that these data reflect, as faithfully as possible, the reality. I, as a user of the Institute of Statistics of Catalonia, of the Idescat, therefore, know that this is a factor that works reasonably well, and that, in fact, is useful to us at the time of analysing and making political proposals. Another thing is the proposals that the Government of the Generality can make whether or not based on these data, and Thames, as it is logical and democratic, for its ideology, or for its ideologies. We already know that in this sense our parliamentary group strongly disagrees with the priorities of the Government of the Generality respect public policies, because, using an expression that has made fortune in the more popular statistical world, we believe that the Government is sometimes lost in the sound and cannot see, or do not want to see, the signals. But that would be another debate. But because there are good signs, there is a certain need for continuity. The strong component of continuity of these plans, which in principle are approved every four years, has been and is a virtue, since this data allows us not only to take the picture of social reality, but also to see the socio-economic evolution in the film with comparable data a year later. In this same line, the statisticians must be comparable to those that are published to other autonomies, to the State and to other European institutes. The last plans were built on this line. Now there may be a little more concreteness and transparency, as Mr Coscubiala said, and some data may also be missing, as did the Deputy of Ciutadans, but in any case we believe that we can use the legislative procedure to finish rounding up everything that does not fit into our context. In general, we agree, from the People's Party, that this project shoots forward. And, therefore, we will vote against the threat to totality. We think this place is already too late, it's too late. By the way, we, the People's Party, reserve our right to present papers and to work on ponència to improve everything we think is better. Finally, thank Mr. Frederic Udina, the director of the Idescat, who is made available to all groups to explain to us the changes of the plan and to answer all the questions we had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.57.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.58.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. First of all, I wanted to make a statement on behalf of my entire parliamentary group, since we are back in the morning in a debate at the totality of a bill, and, therefore, we want to re-express our discomfort because yesterday a debate started in the street and a bill started in the street for the collectives in defense of public education is taped. Because we understand that... and we've been trying to do it in all the debates here, we've been trying to understand that we need to move forward and that we need to accept entry to carry out bills to work collectively here in Parliament. And so, normally, we don't support or present practically never to the totality, because we understand that we need to do the debate here. Therefore, today, for this reason, we will not give support to the speech to the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. But we understand that this must also be part of the coherence and the work that we do here and that you totally cannot be used politically if what we want to do is debate here and work here. One time said this, and expressed the discomfort of the parliamentary group and of the collectivities that presented the ILP here yesterday, to make a series of reflections or considerations; that is, we do not support this goal to the totality, despite sharing a lot of criticisms; although we understand that we need to work here to modify, improve, adapt to this bill; although we need to guarantee political independence; despite that we need to age because the Statistical Platform really backs all the data we need, not only here, but also the citizenry to know the reality of the country; despite that we need to age, too, to learn the directors, etc. Despite all this, we understand that we can't give support to the puzzle to the totality, but that we all have to work and improve the text here. You said that once, didn't you? We understand that we need to reflect, too, on the importance that we give or do not give to these data and the use that we do. Because we often talk about the data of the Idescat, but then we use it as it seems and as it gives us the will. Because, if we look at the Idescat and look at the poverty risk shield that establishes the Idescat, which speaks of families or family units of two adults and two infants and sets this risk at 20,511,5_€ per year, on the other hand, we have that in 2014 the Government changed the shields to cover the feeding and the establishment that the units with seven members, or, then, to the family units with seven members, the shield was – to cover the feeding ones – in 20,951_€, and the family units with four members, in 16451. What do you mean, what do we stay at? The shielding of the poor is that of the Idescat, so do we give it the importance that corresponds to it, or the shielding of the poor is what interests us at a certain time to square the figures and numbers that we have? In the same way, according to the figure we use as we are interested in: now it has become fashionable to defend the poor people who only charge 90,000 gross euros per year. But on the other hand, if we look at the Idescat, we agree that the annual gross salary in Catalonia is already 24,253.73 euros. We are no longer going into the difference between men and women, because then it would still be worse, but the average annual gross salary in Catalonia is 24,253. So if we look at this, we'll have to watch when we talk about middle classes, right? That's to say, the Idescat is the space we use, that we give it credibility and valid for the figures, yes or no? Because, if it is, it means that the rest of the criteria that we make use of when we are politically interested in defending a series of people are not those that correspond and are political interests that are behind us, to defend concrete people, concrete collectivities, who are concerned with defending the rights of the middle classes, if they still exist after the crisis, or the lower classes or the popular classes. Finally, another criteria or other data that we should look at. If we look, also the Idescat, the question of linguistic uses, we add that the use of the castle is always superior to the use of the Catalan except for the local administrations and the Generality. Therefore, those who make the flag that the castle is persecuted, minority, believe that today they have spoken of the Idescat and have said that they will not give support to the task to the totality, I understand that they give credibility to the Idescat and should set themselves up with what kind of fan of the data. More than that, and by the end, and in relation to what I was saying, because here, most likely, then, I'm out of a vein of professional deformation, and I know it's hard if someone doesn't like what I'm going to say, but statistics is not an exact science, so obviously it's very difficult or it's very distressed to say that we're extracting objective values. It's more – and here's the last thought I wanted to do and I think it's important that we keep in mind –: statistics is not neutral, we can find situations where we add that depending on what we ask, we have some results or others. A person with a precarious time job, at a certain point, will consist of the active population at the active population survey; therefore, we will have an active population survey, I will not say false, but yes, in a certain way, that hides a much deeper reality, because the month of generation this person will consist of the active population, but in precarious working conditions it would probably consist of the month of fever as not active. Therefore, these elements too, for example... – which is the example we were setting of the active population survey – are elements that should be taken into account and broadened the wind and put much more subtle, because, really, the data of the Idescat, the data of the statistics were much more a reflection of reality and we did not use them for the reflex we wanted to give. With this, what we want to say is that we will support this entry, but that we understand that statistics are being used, also politically, and that, therefore, it will be necessary that, in the context of the debate that we are here, we establish criteria so that we guarantee the independence of all the questions that are being done through the Idescat, so that the maximum of objectives that are not ever objective are to be given. With all this, I'll leave it here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.59.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Lord Oriol Amat, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.60.0	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Economic Advisor, Counsellor, MPs and MPs – and I would like to say hello to Dr. Frederic Codina, Director of the Idescat and Company at UPF –, and I will talk about four topics. The first is the import of today's data – some of the previous Members referred to it. The data, a sense of doubt, today is a major issue. If the 19th century was a century when the revolution made it steam and the most powerful companies were the railways, similar companies, in the 20th century was the computer science and the great revolution made it companies like IBM, etc.; in the 21st century are the data, eh? If we look at the latest year, the company of the whole world that has increased stock market capital the most is the company Google, a company that basically does what it does live and generate value from data; so, clearly, data is a source of wealth. Moreover, today there is a great demand for transparency. Yesterday Mr Benet Salellas himself, if I don't recall badly, so he referred to the issue of the demand for transparency in the reporting. So this has to do with data, huh? As is often said, what is not measured does not exist. I remember a few years ago a road that had been unfolding over Lleida and that seemed to have been the presupposition, but the ministry did not agree, it did not agree with the hoteliers, finally, with the local administrations, etc., the ecologists... So there was a journalist who dedicated himself to collecting people who died in accidents on a concrete stretch of this road, and he published an article that said "I already go a hundred, because he had reached a hundred people – a hundred people – who had died on that road that was not unfolding. Well, then, a theme that hasn't been unchecked for twenty-five years, back and forth, in a few weeks, it went unchecked and at the end of two years it opened that highway. The data are phonetic. I'll give them another dice. The Parliament, at these times, therefore, is very capricious and we have the theme of the best of times, of making them compatible with the lives of people, family, etcetera. Well, one interesting fact is that the plenary, in this Parliament, last between fourteen and seven hours, and that's about 620 hours a year, and that's what I've done going to the website of the British Parliament and seeing how long the plenary lasts; it's about six hours – in place of fourteen and seven hours that lasts six hours – and in total, in the year, while we're sitting in this room about 620 hours, in the British Parliament, that surely has some competence more than we do, at the moment, so we're sitting... in place of six hundred and twenty hours, we're sitting in this room about 620 hours, in the British Parliament, that surely has some competence than we do, at the moment, so they're sitting... in place of six hundred and twenty hours, they're sitting 429 hours. Therefore, we are sitting in our Parliament, in the plenary room, a 44_per_cent more than the British parliamentarians. Well, this is a given that if I have an opportunity in my own months, then I'll go reminding you if we can manage the weather in another way. It's data... data helps you make decisions. Then I'll give them another dice. This sucks about the Idescat, huh? To the university we are users of the data of the Idescat, of course, and with some Member has already expressed, therefore, we are very happy and very satisfied and believe... – I am speaking in this case, by personal opinion – we believe that the level that the Idescat has for the data that it provides, therefore, is a very good and acceptable level, similar to countries to which we would like to assemble, above all Nordic countries, countries of central Europe, Canada, etc. Well, then, I'll give them a given, too, of the Idescat. It's often said that we're in a country of peppers. Well, let's see if that's true. In Catalonia we have 594,498 enterprises– 594,498 enterprises– ; of these enterprises, 99,7_per_cent, according to the Idescat – 99,7_per_cent–, are enterprises of less than two hundred workers. Therefore, the companies of more than two hundred workers are 0.3. So, we had: 99,7_per_cent of entrepreneurs are less than two hundred workers, 0.3 has more than two hundred workers. Let's see if we are a country of peppers: if we compare ourselves, for example, with Holland... – that Holland is said to have no structure like ourselves –, Holland, instead of tinting 99,7_per_cent of peppers, it does have 99,2. What happens, that, instead of having a 0.3 of more than two hundred employees, as we have – instead of having a 0.3 – they have a 0.8. Therefore, what we are a country of peppers could read in another way, which is that: rather than being a country of peppers, what we are is a country that has few big enterprises, which is a different way of interpreting these data of the Idescat. Another time than the gift of Idescat: the past year was a good year for the business fabric, compared to previous years. The companies we have in Catalonia increased by 8,055. We have 8,055 more start-ups in 2015 than in 2014. This is very good, but there is another fact, which is very interesting: in Catalonia, the year 2015 was created 104,492 businesses– 104,492 – but they closed 96,437; the balance is 8,055. The balance is fine, but what makes you think is how you might have closed 96,437 businesses. Well, I'll take a second. The first was to give replenishment to the import of this law that today we are trying to approve, therefore, to pull forward. On the bill of law... the Vice President of the Economy of the Government of the Generality has already referred to it. If we do this plan, this law, it's because we are bound by the Law of Statistics; it's the plan; it's a law that deals with information and skills that are exclusive competences of the State of Autonomy. It's a plan that will improve the reliability of the data; Congresswoman Regant referred to it, huh? : there's someone who says that statistics is the art of lying with precision – sure Professor Udina won't share it – huh? Statistics is the art of lying accurately. And Congresswoman Regant said that statistic is not an exact science, huh? , maybe what..., a personal appreciation would be: the statistic is an exact science, what is no longer accurate is when we take the data and interpret them. This board that you want to pull forward is a board that will allow you to access confidential data and allow the researcher to access these data, above all it will allow entities that assess public policies to use the data to assess public policies. That's very important. And, logically, as the plan already provides, it is planned to do so, that is to say, to use confidential data, but thus guaranteeing all the protections that the European Statistical Card also requires in relation to this point. They referred to the Members who preceded me on the theme of the name of the Idescat, of the Director of the Idescat. I already said the bill: it has to be named with technical criteria, for four years, renewable for a while. I have looked at, at this point, how Mr Coscubala looked at it, at the type of name that is proposed in this law, I have looked at other autonomous communities, including in some of their party or some of the parties that make up the coalition has ruled for many years, for example, Andalusia, and I have seen that the type of name that the director of the statistical institute from there has, therefore, is like what we want to keep and propose this bill. It is to say that I am surprised that this is such a hot topic when it was not done with this different system that you proposed. Step to the third point, giving a little more concrete expression to the theme of totality. I know that Mr Coscubala and his group have a peaceful trajectory beyond doubt, like the rest of the groups we are in this Parliament, but I am passing the same as other Members who have preceded me, who do not understand this whole thing. Why is that, as it's often said, killing flies in canonades, huh? , kill flies in canonades. The key law we have of statistics in Catalonia is not changed, the key themes to which you have referred are not changed, in relation to the law that we have approved since the year 98, and what we do is better points – which you have not referred to, at the point that we are better points. The Idescat, when making an annual plan – which must be done every year – this plan proposes it, the Catalan Council of Statistics, which makes recommendations and also a pre-emptive opinion; this plan is presented to the Economics Council; the Government has to approve it, however, the Government, in accordance with Article 10 and Article 43 of Law 23/1998, therefore, must give account of this plan, and also of the finalization of the plan, eh? He spoke of "the ceasing of sovereignty; I, along with other Members, therefore, do not understand this point. I'm done. To finish, he simply wanted to value the work of the Idescat. It was a few years ago a assumption of 8_million, now the tea of 5.8; it is seventy-five cents per inhabitant/year. The Basque Institute of Statistics has one hundred and fifty employees, the Idescat in one hundred and five; instead of 154 in one hundred and five. And he also wanted to value the good work he has done in the past years of data-based integration, and to point out that we have important challenges for our own years, which are to use this information well and above all to integrate it into statistical packages that allow easier processing of the information in the future. Many thanks, Madam President; thanks, deputies, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.61.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Some applause.]] After the debate, we shall now proceed to call for a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 122 against and no abstentions. Therefore, this initiative will continue its processing. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into occupational health policies]] [[302-00038/11]] Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day. The setzè point is: Motion subsequent to the question to the Government on the policies of occupational health, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot. To expose her, Mr. Marc Vidal has the word. [[Widow's remorse.]] And ask, please, the deputies who appear in silence of the chamber, so that we can continue the session. [[Long pause and remorse.]] Please... [[Pause.]] Thank you – thank you. [[Pause.]] Deputy Vidal, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.62.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, I think I'll have to start by apologizing because, more than a young lady, the one I introduced to you is a lençol. But, look, let's touch so often on the issue of occupational health that we are accumulating a lot of work, and so this work is coming up with proposals, coming up with proposals, and that's what we've presented to them. But already the warnings that remain fears – remain fears – in the call, despite the fact that today we will approve – I hope so – a set of important measures to begin to reverse the situation of unemployment that they have been seeing for years the safety and security of workers and workers in their work environment. I would like to begin by thanking the participation and the good negotiating willingness of the groups that have submitted papers, which I am sure will end up enriching the final text. And I want to do it especially, because this will also allow me to criticize them discarnately when I touch them without problems of conscience, to the group that I support the Government, because it has presented many papers and has had the will to compromise to reach collective agreements. Then we'll talk about it, but when it comes to it, it's fair to say it. Now, you know that you're putting a lot of dues on him and you're putting a lot harder on his government, because you're giving him a lot and a lot of complete obligations, that we're loving because these obligations are accurately fulfilled. So, so – and we're talking about the young man – this young man intended to play and make proposals around three large groups of topics related to occupational health. The first, the control of the left-handedness and the integration of prevention from recovering elements that are already legislated, elements that are already granted but that are not sufficiently complete. The second large group were mechanisms to prevent the underreporting of work-related illnesses, which generate an economic expense that is not justifiable on the part of public health, when it should be covered by mutuals, and where workers' and workers' rights remain to be considered as common contingencies to be professional contingencies. And the third big group, control, evaluation, prevention of our concrete, specific, natural working risks, when we are detecting a high incidence and a high prevalence in relation to the little prevention and the little recognition we do. In the first of the three aspects, we did not ask for the law to be completed, and it is now, because this is done many times and it does not serve for anything else, I mean nothing, but we asked for incidence in concrete time – concrete time – and in concrete aspects: in three_months, calendars, selection of measures in themes we already have – the Platform for Safety and Health at Work, the Strategic Mark of Safety and Health –, calendars and selection. And, secondly, control and inspection in specific aspects that we know are failing: prevention plans and the application of prevention measures, the review of alien prevention service contracts and the compliment of training activity. If we are able to influence the control of these three aspects, we are convinced that we will notice the results in a quick way. In the second place, we propose concrete mechanisms to bring forward statements of damage to salvation in the work environment, which are not sufficiently declared or which are not declared people. First, a report on public health expenditure to address the issue of payment by mutuals of what should be professional contingencies; but immediately the design and implementation of protocols to facilitate the communication of suspension by the preventive services; the reversal of the burden of proof in such a way as to be the mutuals that prove that it is not professional damage, not vice versa as it is now; a system of alerts of primary health care prior to the suspension of professional damage, and a programme of reinforcement of occupational health units focusing on the aspects of support, follow-up and diagnosis that would facilitate this emergence of professional damage. And on the third side, before the appearance of our professional risks, we demand a catal pact to face them and establish measures, but also a specific program of action on diseases that has been observed a high incidence and a high prevalence; we speak above all of musculoskeletals – remember The Kellys –, also of those that produce cancer – we remember the silestons, the formaldehydes, for example –; solve the issue of asbestos, in the same sense of inverting the burden of proof and giving support on the part of the Administration, which is a very long-term issue, which is very affected and not well resolved. And lastly, the issue of fibromyalgia, where what we are asking for is very simple, which is that we are once again approving and giving validity to a very complete resolution that has already approved this Parliament, but it was in the past legislature, in the end, and it expired at the end of the legislature. In summary, therefore, this is the young man, long – sure –, lençol. Then we'll talk about the papers, which, as you all know, have also been long and very productive. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.63.0	Thank you, Congressman. In order to defend the papers presented, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí, of the Parliamentary Group Candidate of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.64.0	Thank you, President. I, for the time being, will not comment on combs and steals; I already see that I have normally been up and running, but what I wanted to explain to you is that today I have a four Roses of Can Lives samarreta that refers to four people detained during the events of Can Lives, one of whom had Tourette's syndrome and the tract that came back was more than questionable. Say the previa, let's start with the young man. We have already spoken to Mr Vidal: we will vote for everything. It seems to us correct, necessary; it seems to us that it is a sufficient movement of consensus. Thank you for accepting the talk about ICAM, which we have already done to Mr. Gilbert at the plenary session. What's going on... and with all the humility and respect, we feel a little like on the day of the marmot; that's to say, there are motions going on about labor issues that have posed "tirites, that make reference to very necessary things, but that they have..., as I would say, little transformative capacity of the labor reality that we have. So, I wouldn't want to repeat last week's speech, because the counselor already... I guess she's already written down all the themes. The one who... we wanted to focus the speech on a little background reflection. Above all in three clear ideas that are central elements or central oppression vectors that generate margins, that generate margins of rights and that we understand that some of this Parliament is where to focus in order to guarantee labor rights. Let us remember that work is the lever of access to rights, to many rights, among which, the citizens, and that, therefore, if we are talking about the labour market and if we are talking about labour rights, we must focus, above all, on what creates margins and on these margins to make a society fairer. When we talk about margins, we talk about ciutadania, about genere i of class. It creates margins for the lack of rights of citizens; it generates margins for people who do not have the right to work – and this we have to resolve –; it generates margins, in terms of genera, the invisibility and exploitation of the lack of recognition of domestic and healing jobs; it generates margins for family care not to cotiti, that we have to care for our families as we can, to make equilibrium, and that the State does not recognize that it is an indispensable contribution because life needs healing, and, if there is no cure, there is no life; it generates margins, in terms of genera, also, that works in terms of care that are recognized – domestic workers, Lord Vidal spoke of the Kellys, and, if there is no cure, there is no life; it generates margins, in terms of genera, also, that works in terms of care that are recognized– domestic workers, the Lord Vidal spoke of the cure, and, if there is no cure, that can be achieved by other people, that we can easily manage the economy. It creates margins that sexual workers do not recognize their rights. I'm no longer talking about opening the debate about whether sex work is a recognizable job or not, the debate is that we have a lot of women who exercise sex work and need them to recognize their labor rights. It creates margins, in terms of class, the persecution that implies the lack of recognition of the popular economy that endures the crisis at home. We can talk about keeping them, about moving sales, but we can also talk about many other jobs that can't fit into the formal economy and that, therefore, have to be done in terms of informal or popular economy, and that is said..., not only are they not recognized, but in many ways are pursued. All these margins, all this, have a lot to see with occupational safety, above all you have to see with the conception of work. As I said, work is the right access lever and what can't pass is that the oppression vectors – the gene, the class and the origin – are constantly elements that make work and citizenship a privilege and not a right. Deia Maria Mercè Marçal..., or spoke of the "Terbol Atzur being three times rebellious. Mr. Vidal, we invite you to work for a framework of Catalan labor relations, for a status of workers in Catalonia and to make the Catalan Republic just, rebellious as many times as anyone and the Republic where we all have rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.65.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr Pol Gibert, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.66.0	Thank you, President. So, this noon we have to debate a new motion on occupational safety, one more time after which we were able to debate fifteen days ago in this House. We are pleased to see that this Parliament, therefore, takes seriously the issue that is the grave one that we are living with occupational diseases and accidents at work. Even if we repeat a subject that we discussed a few days ago, we believe that it is never to arise, and this proposal from Catalonia Yes, it may be welcome to put on the table even more elements to defend the situation that the workers suffer in their place of work daily. In the later months we see how the relationship between the devaluation of working conditions, for one band, and accidents at work, for the other, is obvious and comes to light, and the motion that presents itself has an obviously technical character, deep, as has already been said, "a lençol, as our own proposer has told us, and that we want to comment on some aspects that seem important to us. First of all, it is a matter of substance: we consider that the term 'left-handedness' is to be used, so it is not entirely correct, because what we do is to assimilate a concept that is conducive to mutual and insurers when we are to talk about accident and professional malaise. More than re, because, as much as it may seem like a superficial concept, we think it's important to put the word that is appropriate and not to use the language of the negotiations. And so we finally found, according to the score, some intermediate term that fits a little bit into the final text. Second of all, we also wanted to make it special to which are the common prevention services. And it's that our group thinks it's important to make a reference, because they're a place where we usually find the big focus of irregulars in this aspect. And we believe that a review of the annual reports that make these types of common services, would be a good step towards having greater control over them. It was not possible and we regret it, and we think it would be a good contribution to this final text. For what he does to the rest of the young lady, obviously we share it and hope that you do so too, the rest of the chamber. We believe that it is an impulse to government action in the field of occupational safety, which is much needed. Our group considers, and so it has said on other occasions in this Faristol, that it is important to put on the market measures necessary to adapt the prevention of occupational risks to the current, very cruel, working reality, at the time we attack, and do not forget, the effects of job insecurity and its origins, the original sin of how we find ourselves today. These two elements, the precariousness and appreciation of working conditions, lead us to where we are at these times, lead us to an obvious increase in work accidents and occupational diseases. And we do, and we want to do it, we want to put on the table a battery of actions that go from the performance of the inspector, as it cannot be in any other way, until, on the part of the companies, the reversal in prevention of occupational risks. But above all – and here I will contradict the proposer, Marc Vidal – we must make sure that the law is complete. We can't go up here and say that we don't... let's just say that it's a secondary aspect of us. If the law is complete, we wouldn't be here defending this young man. Because, in short, we are only asking for this: we are asking for actions to reinforce that the law is complete. And an effective compliment of the current rule would be the perfect solution to the current situation. Only then will we be guaranteed to improve the situation in which we find ourselves, and prevent thousands and thousands of workers from continuing to leave their salvation daily in their place of work. Thank you, President, and our group will vote in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.67.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Mr Martín Barra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.68.0	Thank you, Madam President. MPs, MPs, Catalunya Yes, it is Pot that presents us with a motion on what is not only a legal, but also ethical and social mandate, as is the fight against the health risks arising from the work activity. And this motion, as has already been mentioned, includes a large number of points grouped under three specific headings. The first refers to the reduction of damage from work and its prevention. Right now in Catalonia we have at this moment the third Pla de govern de seguretat i salute travail, 2015-2020, which, by the way, counselor, I hope that as these days we talk a lot about budgets, that if one assumes some things, that if others..., I hope that this budget line that is provided for in this plan is included in the budgets; do not forget that, please. This plan states: "For the definition of this third plan of government, account has also been taken of the experience gained from the application of government plans, agreements and previous strategies, which have brought, to the band of very positive results, knowledge and... Very positive results? From previous plans? The previous plan, the second government plan was planned for the period 2009-2012 and was extended until 2014, but its evaluation was done before the plan was finalized. This assessment included, for example, the rate of accidents at work with a lay-off, but only until 2013, which, by the way, had risen. By the way, it also climbed in 2014 and continued to climb in 2015. Closing the evaluation early covered the reality and made it possible to say that very positive results had been achieved. A single fact: the number of serious industrial accidents in fixed-term workers increased in 2015 by 28_per_cent, and in 2014 by 18_per_cent. Obviously, this figure must not be blamed on the government's plan. The very serious crisis, from which we have not yet emerged, can have a share of responsibility because even workers with fixed contracts may be afraid to lose it, to take more risks in their work, frequencies, exaggerated rhythms and even companies, for their subsistence, may have made reductions in their investment costs or in their investment for prevention, but we cannot talk about very positive results. In addition, the figures for non-retirement accidents, which had also increased, were omitted. And these accidents, even if they are lighter, are already a reflection that something fails in prevention and are the prelude to more serious accidents. In short, in health – in health – we know that with a misdiagnosis an effective treatment cannot be proposed. When, therefore, this first part of the motion calls for a specific plan to reduce sinisterity to be presented within three months, we can only say that it is absolutely necessary. The second group of proposals of the motion refers to the underreporting of occupational diseases and is asked to report on the cost that we have paid, since public health, to cover care that would correspond to mutual employers. The case that I could tell them would be immense but I will only refer to a case: a patient that I attended, a gentleman who placed doors, which was his job, fell one on his foot and the mutual did not attend to it, said that it corresponded to Social Security, which was not a work accident. Because it turned out that, later, they gave him an image test in which a casual finding appeared that had nothing to do with his clinic, but we have paid, among all, that attention. It is clear that there is a need to improve the procedures for detecting these processes so that mutual societies do not charge public health costs for them. The third group of motion's proposals refers to the challenge posed by the new risks of a work nature, for which we do not currently have efficient plans, so we ask for analysis, research, prevention, etc.. In this section, we are grateful that one of the amendments proposed by our group has been incorporated. And, finally, we also see that a new point has been included, a point that was not in the original text, at the request of the CUPs. As another speaker has already commented before me, fifteen days ago in plenary we were also dealing with these issues, and that is that this point was already there. Well, we'll vote twice, it's not a big deal either, but if the UPC had, I don't know, some suspicion that the government wasn't going to comply with it, because you have more means than other groups to insist on you, you have more access, I think, you have more possibilities of influence. In Ciutadans, we will vote in favour of the whole content of this motion. Preventing accidents and diseases related to work as much as possible, in addition to being a requirement, from the point of view of workers' health, will also have a very positive impact on the economy and on the competitiveness of businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.69.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Lord Bernat Solé, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.70.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, Councillors, let me start reading, textually, the following: "Work is a fundamental tool in building people's autonomy and in defining their vital projects, for this reason the crisis and a _marc of labor relations are inadequately coerced these elements of personal freedom; therefore, it is necessary to deepen into a new product model that defines a competitive and socially advanced labour market, with measures such as the deployment of the third Plan of Government of Security and Occupational Health 2015-2020. If I have specifically quoted this text, it is precisely, Mrs Vehi, that we will not put down marks, but that we will do a total healing as far as possible, and, Mr Vidal, the dues we are ordered to do, because we can do them. Certainly, today we still have 90 people who have lost their lives in their workplace and 753 who have suffered heavy accidents during the year 2015. Allow me also to express our record for them and transmit support to families. And it is precisely for this reason that this motion and any policy aimed at reducing these data has felt. Politics must be in the service of people, and it's in motions such as today that they take their senses altogether. That is why, from the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes to the group proposing our compromise and support with its content, and I also welcome the intense work that has brought us to this consensus, and I will not deny this work of parliamentary engineering that has allowed us to reach these consensuss. In any case, and before entering the content of the proposal, I think it is necessary and important to reflect on the following: you have set up a series of agreements and measures based on an ingenious reality, it is true, and this is about us getting better in terms of prevention and detection, it is true, I do not doubt it. But I do not doubt all those companies, all those workers and all those locals who are doing the right thing, who have long had the sensitivities to incorporate those measures of prevention and security into their activities. And I think this should put it in value, we mustn't forget: there are many companies, many workers who are doing well. The result of this consensus is a very valuable tool, such as the Safety Board – as I have mentioned – and the work greeting 2015-2020, which must bring us to the reduction of these data; a safety board with a concrete timetable and which is ageing, day after day, for the compliment of the legislation in force and of all the measures incorporated into this motion. Precisely, the Constellera Bassa, a few days ago, announced in this very hemisphere an important increment of techniques enabled for the duration of the control of the measures of safety and health that take the enterprises of our country with the objective of reducing the labor leftlessness of Catalonia and vetlar, in this way, for the salvation of the workers and workers. Let us not forget that a part of this competence corresponds to the State, and, in this sense, we would like to have the own and necessary tools to approach the levels of left-wingness of many European countries. It is also true, and not less important, the process of detection and declaration of damage related to the work, and it is clear that the management of the resources at the disposal of the Government of the Generality must be effective. And, in this sense, we need to detect those cases that at these times are incorporated into public health and that should be derived where they correspond: to mutual agreements and paid for the same businesses. Finally, and if time permits me, put in value this strategic mark; a mark that must allow us to include the participation of labor administrations, health workers, economic agents, social agents involved in the long term, in an efficient and effective way, that detects. And, at the same time, and as expected in the Governance Platform, present in the proper months, and within the Director of Occupational Health, a specific performance program before the appearance of work-type disorders, as well as the detection and recognition of existing disorders. From now on, we are moving to this Parliament our commitment and responsibility to work in this sense, to implement this Pla Director of Occupational Health; but, above all, our maximum commitment and responsibility to make work a space worthy of personal and professional development, where our workers and our companies feel secure and accompanied, where quality work is about precariousness, where working is what makes us worthy and superior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.71.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Some applause.]] Next, the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.72.0	Thank you, President. "Work, says economists, is the source of wealth. But it is much more so: it is the first fundamental condition of every human life, and it is so much so that, in a sense, we must say: "Work creates man. This paragraph of Friedrich Engels is unilateral, it's..., but I think it has a deep intuition – a deep intuition – and this intuition is that in every hammer stroke, in every bread muddled, in every speech pronounced, in every written article we make the world and we make ourselves. And, therefore, this deep intuition, which in the background is very aristotelian, to say that in the work we do and we do, and which points out that the work is much more than an exchange of time in exchange for money, that the work is much more than a gear in a great chain of production, that the work is much more than an occupation or a post, as the councillor knows, which is why the name has changed to the councillor. Because the work is that: the transformation of the world through which we shape ourselves, outline our personality, give meaning to our vital journey, meet with others and we can contribute to social progress. And that's why unemployment is a curse; but it's not a biblical curse, it's an anthropological curse. And in order for this to be the case, so that these words of Engels, which have a certain meaning, are real, have to be given two conditions: one, that there be work, and two, that it be of quality. In the first one, let there be work, I think we're going in the right direction. We've created 1_million jobs in two years. In the second – in the second – we have a way to go, and now the spokesman who listens to me will not be able to blame me for quoting Engels, but, in any case, this motion goes in the right direction; it goes in the direction of creating positive working conditions so that the work is this area of realization. And I think there is a clear consensus in Catalonia; there is a clear consensus that we have good occupational health and safety legislation, what happens is that it is poorly applied and we have a very high – very high – accident rate, eighty_ thousand accidents in one year, more than sixty deaths in one year is very much. And therefore, we must face up here, and to solve, two decrees. Two decrees passed, as you said, Mr Vidal, in your previous appearance, in your interpellation. A decree was adopted by José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero and gave the mutuals the advantage. And here it is done once again that I have already denounced more than once from this rostrum: the Catalan and Spanish left very brave and very bold in the cultural and surrendered and cowardly before the capital. This is done by Mrs Colau, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero and when the CUP governs will do the same. And, on the other hand, Mr. Boi Ruiz's decision – and, on the other hand, Mr. Boi Ruiz's decision – to eliminate Decree and Instruction 1/2007, which, well, has also given back and left the workers more helpless, hasn't it? And we ask that the mutuals assume their responsibility, no more nor less, no more than they have to assume but not less; that is, the one that corresponds. And I am glad that Mr Vidal, precisely, quoted Royal Decree 624 of 2014, of the People's Party, listen. The first step for dialogue and agreement is to stop presenting each other as absolute evil. So you have taken an important step, which is to say: "The People's Party decree is better than the Socialist Party's. We, there is one point..., will vote in favour of the whole motion except for one point. There is some question that creates some doubt, but we will vote for it as long as it is understood within the framework of the legislation, the law on mutual societies approved by the Congress of Deputies and the royal decree that you quoted. I understand that this is the case, and we will therefore vote in favour of it. In any case, we welcome the spirit and content of this motion, which we believe is a step forward and which can contribute, precisely, to better work, and so that the work really is for all Catalans and Catalans, an area of personal and social realization. Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.73.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr. Marc Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.74.0	Thank you, President. Before entering the exams, some brief comments will be made. Mrs Vehi, I agree with you, the day of the marmot is very frequent, when the governments do not complete what they ask. I hope that with this young man, as you are giving support to the government, you will help us get out of the day of the marmot and complete it strictly. And actually, in the invitation too... I'm turning back the invitation, we've already started, we've approved the Catalan labour relationship marque in a young man who humbly presented this group the last time and we approved it. As far as Mr. Gibert is concerned: yes, left-handedness is a technical concept, what happens is that this technical concept says two things: malaise and accidentality, and then I preferred to end the technical issues. In any case, I didn't say the law wasn't to be completed, no, no. What I'm saying is that if we just say that the law is complete and we don't have dates and we don't have dates, it's hard, then it's for nothing. Mr. Martín Barra, thank you for the support. No contradiction. Mr. Solé, of course, those who do good things are never news, and precisely for those who do good things, whether they are entrepreneurs, as if they are workers, as if it is the Administration, precisely for those horses chasing those who do bad and ensuring that they stop doing it. And Mr. Fernando Sánchez, so I sincerely appreciate the philosophical speech, even the whole of Engels; I am surprised by this speech, sometimes, that I'm at the PP, or I don't know if I've made a mistake in the motion. In any case, thank him for the speech. As we remain thirty-seconds, let alone say that the figures indicate what we said before: twenty-nine items have been submitted, which are substantial in the sense of changing the meaning of the initial motion; nor have they been from the government party; most of them were technical; of these, we did not accept seven; we made thirteen transactions between various of these, and, as a result, we did not reject them again, but basically, not because we expressed a different feeling, but to finish by giving coherence to the final text. Even so, there has not been a pair that were not of the central theme that we have accepted equally, including that of the Catalan Institute of Medical Evaluations, which we believe is an element that we will need to develop in future initiatives at the same time, because it is a situation that creates difficult problems for users and users. Therefore, we will approve a good piece of work to start facing the alarming situation of safety and health in our country's work, a good piece of work to ensure that the mutuals and the companies that pay them assume their responsibility...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.75.0	You've run out of time, Mr. Vidal...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.76.0	...to prevent the ills and deaths of their workers and do not charge on the money of the public system. Many thanks to everyone and welcome to the plenary. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.77.0	Thank you, Congressman. Call it a vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.78.0	For the separate vote in paragraph 3.4.3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.79.0	Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.80.0	To ask for a separate vote on 5.4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.81.0	A separate vote was requested on points 3.4.3 and 5.4. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. First, we will vote on these two points – first on 3.4.3 and then on 5.4 – and then we will vote on the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] Therefore, we vote on point 3.4.3. The vote begins. It was approved by 120 votes to 9, with 9 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 5.4. The vote begins. It was approved by 67 votes to two, with 60 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 129 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into child and adolescent care policies]] [[302-00041/11]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into child care and adolescence policies presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, Ms. Laura Vílchez has the word. [[Widow's remorse.]] And I would ask, as usual, the deputies who come out of the room in silence and in a hurry to continue with the session. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.82.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.83.0	Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.84.0	Yes, thank you. Members, Members, Councillors, during the two weeks that have passed since I asked the Lower Councillor for children's issues, the current situation has continued to give us reason, examples that confirm to us that our parliamentary group is on the right track and that the next Member was necessary. The reason I present you today is to respond to the thread of that inquiry, which was born with the intention of making it clear that the system of child protection in Catalonia fails before, during and after the application of a protective measure to infants and young people in situations of risk or unemployment, whichever is this measure. As I said in the previous plenary, if the Administration has custody of these children it must be exercised. All of us who are parents or mothers, and who can't imagine it, know that we would put everything we have in our midst because our children grow up together and work because they have a future hope. This, precisely, is what the Administration has to do while keeping these children and young people in its charge. But today we don't talk about our children. Today we are talking about nearly seven thousand children and girls who have been separated from their families to guarantee them, in theory, a protection. The Generalitat has to guarantee the protection of all Catalan children and adolescents, but especially of their wards, perhaps the most vulnerable collection of our society and does not, not everyone. And all of us who are here have a share of responsibility, to the desire of seven thousand great responsibilities. These proposals are a first stone, proposals that, out of joy or pity for this Government, do not need money in many cases, but rather optimize and prioritize the resources we already have at the abst, proposals that pose, as it cannot be otherwise, the emphasis on prevention and follow-up. To facilitate prevention we believe it is important to be able to reduce the overload of work that the detail brought to the child and adolescent care team; to facilitate the work to which it has to respond with the utmost rigour, in an agile, safe and effective way to a minor at risk. Once you're immersed in the protection system, when the protection consists of the input in a center, we consider it to be a sense to promote a minimum protocol for the residential centers of intensive educational activity or education. We know that there are manuals of good practices that are used to the intent of this protocol, but they do not guarantee, and so they say the reports that the Greuges Syndicate publishes a year ago, nor the very fundamental rights, nor do they promote transparency in the management of these centres. Aware that some centres carry out a responsible task, but also that of others not so much, we think it is important for DGAIA to develop this protocol that will be able to homogenize the quality of the decent conditions required of all centres that are less unemployed and receive public subsidies to develop this service. And to guarantee your compliment, we ask you to be subject to a thorough supervision, inspection that makes you guarantee some basic rights that not everyone today has blankets. But, in addition to this list of obviouss, we report that there can't be any waiting lists to be protected, it can't be that we let them fail the school, it can't be that fish in the system are object of very black reports, and it can't be that the department doesn't tell the truth in their appearances. Because we don't like to ask for more places in centers, but, as you all know, we see ourselves in the obligation to ask for it, and we want commitments and we want a calendar. It is unacceptable for children to wait at home, at risk, to have a place, and to have a favourable report, because they protect themselves. However, we want these children to be seen in the family, that the family gathering is the absolutely priority recourse for the Government, without leaving aside the education of children at risk or unemployed. We need to strengthen this education, with empathy, with pedagogy, seeking that the emotional triangle has the least impact on its academic path. We do not want to forget either the young people who come from the system, the extolled young people, who find a full path of difficulties to make a transition to their adult life, a way that we must flatten by providing them with resources, their resources, guidance and support. And we don't forget about biologic couples either. We find it essential that the system also work empathically because the families I needed have the economic resources needed to end up working as a couple. In short, I hope that with these brushes they will now know what we are, all that remains to be done and my group's commitment to childhood. Accelerated, efficient and equal opportunities. Nothing more and nothing less. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.85.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the words of Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.86.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, it is often said that childhood and adolescence is our future, the future of the country, and, possibly, what would be more correct is to say that they are the reality of today and that, depending on what we are today, so this future will be held by the adolescents and infants of Catalonia. I say this because we often have the mouth to talk about children's rights, and, in fact, in Catalonia we have Law 14/2010 still at a very early stage of deployment and without economic registration and a pact for the childhood of the year 2014 that two years later we have little more than the deployment of territorial tables. We have the laws, we have the mark, but it seems that there is no political will to bring them to an end, even more so if we talk about the children and young people of the country. The motion that Ciutadans presents to us from the hand of her deputy Laura Vílchez, to whom I would like to thank her willingness to negotiate the long papers that our parliamentary group has made, offers us the opportunity to analyze part of the current system of protection of childhood and adolescence in Catalonia. We have made statements that go in the line of recognizing the professional's pocket and introducing elements to make it more efficient, to provide it with resources and to make it more transparent. In Catalonia there are, according to data from the same consultancy, 79 residential educational centres: 11 with delegated management, 9 with direct management and 59 of concerted ones, some with assumptions that exceed 1.8_million euros; all with different equipments, with resources..., and with different managements. And, before this diversity, what we are asking is a protocol for the performance of compulsory compliments that encloses, among others, questions as obvious as the delimitation of the responsibilities of professionals, the required title and the need for a system of continuous training; that they make public their accounts, that there is transparency in the management; that the centres have acceptable conditions of climate and ventilation, minimum squares and individual use strides for children, or that visits can be carried out within the week in order not to cause the children to lose class hours or to lose work hours for families. But I did not want to conclude this intervention without highlighting some aspects that we consider worrying. In the 2015 report on the rights of the child, the Greuges Synod refers to a reality that exemplifies the possible deficiencies in the management of the DGAIA, which is the result of the detail and also of the lack of places of CRAE and CREI. He complains that today there are young people and young people who, while having a proposal for income in a residential center, due to situations of neglect or maltreatment, are waiting in the family where they have been able to produce these facts due to lack of residential places. In his appearance to the Commission for Children, the Director General of DGAIA denied this extreme. But at the appearance of this same Tuesday, the deputy to the syndic, Mrs. Larios, confirms that there are hundreds of children in Catalonia who live in the family nucleus where there has been some kind of neglect or abuse of hope that the DGAIA will give them the residential resource they have already recognized. If this situation is confirmed, we would be in front of a flagrant violation of the right of the infant to be protected from possible abuse situations and irresponsibility on the part of DGAIA which may become at great risk for the infants, who have, more than, as you know, right to special protection. And it puts in full, therefore, the necessary expansion of the places of the residential centers in Catalonia. To the point that we present in this young man we ask no more than to what the DGAIA has committed to in attendance: to expand..., which are three hundred places. But we want them with a calendar and we want them urgently, because we cannot allow children and young people to be found in this situation of vulnerability. And beyond this young man, we need a review of our protection system. It is not normal either to assume that some infants and young people escape from the centres with the argument that CRAEs are not a prison. They're not and they don't have to be, actually. But something more we should do to avoid finding the smallest inhaling glue in some barrels of Barcelona. The residential resource is the complement to the priority search for other socio-educational resources that promote the development of children and young people. And, in this sense, we ask the motion for a revision of the protocol between the Juvenile Prosecutor's Office, the Squadron's Office and the DGAIA, which is easy, too, to move from a CRAE to a CRAE in the most complicated cases. Ladies and gentlemen, children and young people are part of our reality. When we legislate to put them at the centre of policies and that the protection of children and young people, as present and future, becomes a key element based on agreement, and also in the best possible management. And that's the best favor we can do for each other like society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.87.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word "Mrs. Gabriela Serra", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.88.0	Thank you, President. Hello. Good morning. I'll go fast because there's so much to say for a while. It has already been said, Article 5 of Law 14/2010, of May 27, of the law and opportunities in childhood and adolescence, specifies that the best interest of the infant or adolescent must be the main inspirer and promoter of public activities. Now, too, it has been said, the situation of childhood and adolescence protected in Catalonia has long manifested severe deficiencies and shortcomings. The dysfunctions of the same system cause alarming collapsions that cause mass to, for example, be derived from infants and adolescents to centres not suited to their needs or that in times of force have to protect children, children or adolescents who do not require it. It is in this context that we consider important the debate that today, thanks to the motion presented for the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans and thanks to Laura's dedication to it, we can discuss this issue in her parliament. Now, as we have learned, the initiative, the sense of doubt that we need, and that we believe and that we share that, more than today's motion, we are opening a way of debate that we are going to take from the Commission on Children, we must point out that in more than one point the wording of the motion seems to us confident and it seems to us that it is not quite clear who is the objective that they want to achieve. For this reason, we regret, for example, that at point 5 we did not accept our message, precisely because we believe that the wording we proposed, in terms of equipping all foster children and adolescents with any difficulty in learning psychopedagogic supports appropriate to their needs to help them cope with and prevent situations of school children, was much clearer and more precise than what is being planted. For this reason, at this point – the company already knows – we will abstain. Also, we believe that it is barren in some different concepts, and that others, under our point of view, are not properly used. For example, when it is settled in point 1 that the SIFEs are to be separated from the EAIAs. Here we believe just the opposite, that the SIFE has to depend on the EAIA. And, precisely, we had brought a message that it seemed to us that this dependence was much clearer in the sense of assigning to each EAIA team a SIFE team on which it is based organically and that it follows the protective measure of the extended family. Therefore, we will also vote against point 1. Also, the text raises fears that the current legal framework already stipulates – we have commented, eh? – These are questions that are already fulfilled with various regulations; they are important aspects, such as definition, profiles, the responsibilities of the various professional persons working in a centre, the specific functions of each, as well as the organization and functioning of these. This is already stipulated, there are measures; another very different thing is which is the follow-up, which is the level of compliment and which is, therefore, the level of appreciation of the programs. Therefore, at this point too we will abstain... we will vote" no, forgive. The report on the rights of children prepared by the Sindico de Greuges de Catalunya and recently published has been discussed. We find a detailed list, an extensive list of current and needed recommendations, particularly for what it does to the adequacy and adequacy of resources. Among these, we share measures that would be urgently needed; measures such as the immediate and effective compliment of professional ratios to specialized childcare and adolescence services..., which is provided by EAIAs – they are difficult to pronounce, this acronym –; territorially distributed teams that are set up in one or one profession for each forty children or adolescents. Or to reduce the waiting time there are once a technical team has made..., from the proposal of residential or alien family accompliment until they are assigned a place in a center or a family. Or to resolve with urgency the situation of foster children and adolescents living in centres that are not suited to their needs; how to effectively address the needs of foster children and adolescents who experience serious behavioural and emotional disruptions; and how to create specific support programmes and resources to care for adolescents with high-risk behaviors, and how to address the needs of their families. And, also, naturally, the fact of expanding the necessary seats to gather, these three hundred seats that you plant in point 9. That is to say, we share the need and concern for these three hundred places – for those who fall – but we believe that this today..., I wouldn't mean that it's a gesture of electoralism, I wouldn't mean that it's a gesture of wanting to press on to what it is known that in a year it won't be possible to achieve. And, therefore, they share the concern that you raise, that it's ours, too...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.89.0	Congresswoman, you've run out of time; I know hard.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.90.0	Good. [[Rialles.]] I just want to say one thing, if I may, quickly. Only one last question. Let's think – it's a suggestion for all of us – that it's not right to use the word ‘lesser' when it comes to childhood and adolescence care policies. This term, "minor, which is written in various quarters, is a legal term...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.91.0	I know it's hard, but I can't give it any more time, because it's been a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.92.0	Someday, I'll learn, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Someday, eventually, I'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.93.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Ms Montserrat Vilella, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.94.0	Thank you, President. She will advise, Members and Members, to position us on this motion, first to thank the Ciutadans Group, and in particular the Member, Mrs Vilches, to bring this issue today to debate, because we share the fact that the fact of talking about childhood in this plenary, so it is really necessary and necessary that we find agreements, because obviously the childhood of this country, beyond the fact that a group or a party wanders for the good way, what is needed is that we arrive at agreements in order to be able to bring to the Government that meets the needs to which it is committed. Therefore, thank you for bringing this young man, thank you also for the contributions of Congressman Moreno, the Socialist Party, and Congresswoman Gabriela Serra, of the CUP, because, therefore, we have tried among all pleas to improve this text. We have also presented papers, some have been accepted and some others have not, but in any case, so this work continues, as Mrs Vilches said. Before entering the concrete content, what I would like is to value the care and protection system that our country has in terms of childhood: it is a very good system, we have a very good model, we have excellent professional, and we have to thank them for the work they do every day, all the professional contribution, and also that they leave behind all the skills, empathetic and relational, to be on the side of those children and young people who have not had the sort of power that they were looking for, their parents, these attentions. Therefore, I am going to thank these professionals, and that the decisions we can take here continue to encourage the attention of the children, but also to make the work easier for these professionals. Also, thank the contribution, the task that the host families make, in this system, both extended families, with professional families, with alien families. We understand that we have this recourse in the public system, so it does us better than society. He said, therefore, that it is a good system, but obviously we agree, and we share, the group that gives support to the Government, because we understand that the Government has also shared it and said it in this way in its parliament, that it is a system that needs better, and that needs to make contributions, and that we can reach agreements in order to be much better. In concrete terms, what I would say in the papers is that we have brought this into the 2a point, that we have separated it from the 10th because it did not go to the correct block, because you are referring to the need for a specialized care team twenty-four hours a day, 365 days a year, for foster families – and in general – that you may encounter some problem. We understand that we do not need to create a new team, but that the child's phone we have to guarantee is that it is able to coordinate these petitions of the host families, that it can give an answer by contacting the relevant service, and also that it has training enough because this can be given. Therefore, with the approved emena, we will support it. Also at the third point we presented this issue, because there was a concern that the host families sometimes began to gather the course and this could bring them problems at the time of finding a place in the public education system, and also at the time of being able to ask for food aid. We have reached a text agreement, in which we guarantee, therefore, the fact that this place of schooling has, but also that it is possible, in the Pla of support to families, to be able to study the fact that it is the same performance that it is possible to increase and not to change the barrage of help. I can see I'm falling short of time. The points that we won't support it aren't so much because we don't agree with it just because we understand that this is already done and that maybe it's not about changing the rule but making sure it's hard to finish. And what we know very hard is that in the last few years the term of a year has been set, because we understand that the government has purchased to have these places, but at the end of a year we can't do it. We approved very recently, in the Emergence Plenary, here, in this very plenary, we approved measures that spoke of two-hundred places; it has been a long time and now for three-hundred. We understand that this isn't the rhythm, it's not the tarann that we should be hard on time to reach consensus. If we arrive at a consensus, we must be able to do the work to last it, in term; but to go asking for a race without end to the government we do not believe that it is the formula of being able to reach these consensuss and of being able to improve the service. We have the law, we have the childhood pact, we have the measures of the emergency plethora, we have a plan of government committed to be able to do this; now what we need...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.95.0	I know it's hard, but it's run out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.96.0	Yes, thank you. What we need is the law of presuppositions in order to make this country go on the right path of being able to care for children that their parents, therefore, could not have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.97.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Ms Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot. [[Pause.]] When you want – when you want –, Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.98.0	Thank you, President. I would say that, since I have entered this Parliament, I have the impression, I would say that there is almost certainty, that both the Government and the group that supports it fills themselves with the mouth that childhood is a priority for them, but it seems to me that neither younger nor younger are at absolute risk, a priority, because, if they were, we would not have, for example, the one that Idescat said in 2013, that there were 26.4_percent of Catalans younger than seven years at risk of poverty, that it meant one_by_four, and that it meant 8.8_percent of points higher than 2008; if they were, in the days of 2015, entitled "The poor child in Catalonia would not have concluded that the main victims of the poor in Catalonia and abroad are, if they were, in the last few days of 2015, the poor in Catalonia have not been warned, that the worst of the poor in Catalonia is not the worst of the poor in Catalonia; If childhood was a priority, the syndic wouldn't have nailed us two days ago for quoting him so late that he explained his 2015 report, and he wouldn't have notified the party that he was supporting the government that, please, you would have notified the government that the batteries were being laid, because it was a long time – years – that he was warning about the same problems. If childhood was really a priority, we wouldn't have been losing it with the fooder, the universal child's performance, or the closing of lines from zero to three years. Another impression that I have – and here I do say that it is an impression because I don't have the certainty – is that the answer to the questions, to the questions is: "It's all right. For example, Laura Vílchez said the other day that the syndic said, in her report, that there were minors who had for some time been waiting to be picked up after extracurricular activities, and that the department had said that no irregularities were detected. I myself, at the syndic's appearance, asked some questions to the syndic's adjunct; there were some questions about CRAE that had made me CRAE workers, and the answer I got from the syndic's adjunct was more or less the same. Mrs Bassa replied to Mrs Vílchez that we are referring to the European Union for what she does to the service of young extolls and, as Mrs Vilella has just said, she also went this way, "it's okay, it's okay, it's more or less okay. But the truth is that the reports they say are not that childhood at home is a low of oil, as they seem to indicate these answers. And I sometimes have the feeling that these answers are defensive answers, and I, the truth, when I ask them I don't ask them to put the saying to anyone else, more quickly I do them to try to solve the problems. We would therefore vote in favour of Ciutadans' motion, which is a motion that focuses, basically, on the problems of minors declared in disempowerment. We share his concern and, in fact, we have been working for a long time. And we will vote for it because we find it right. But we find it excessively focused on point questions, which seem very important to us, yes, but which address the problem in a partial way. We think the problem is more structural, so we're wondering if... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Is my time running out? Yeah, if I get too much to say, I'm in a hurry. We ask ourselves how there is no data, because despite the fact that DGAIA says that there is, we find that they are minimal. For example: 70_percent of children and children declared to be unemployed are neglected; a much higher percentage for a very little precise concept. In change, a 1,3_percent of underage unemployed are for sexual abuse, when, according to European statistics, they are..., there is a 15_percent of children and a 20_percent of children who suffer sexual abuse. So, here's a decal that's incomprehensible. We think that many data are missing; the syndic ratifies it, it also ratifies it experts in childhood, and we think, therefore, that it is essential to know what we want to study, look for data – that we do not have them, I insist –, analyze them and find solutions. We will continue to work in this sense. And I end up, very briefly, recommending a reading. I already know that it is not customary in this chamber, perhaps, but at the same time my condition as a writer and, above all, as a reader I want to tell you that the law of the minor, a novel by McEwan, is not lost, that as all his is very intelligent and that it deals precisely with the minor and the Administration, and it does so through a judge who has sensitised, who listens to all the parts and who really seeks the good of the minor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.99.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.100.0	Thank you, President. Ms. Lienas, who is polite, could..., quotes McEwan, but she could quote her novels, because she has also published various novels about the children and the situation, but, well, she has this discretion to quote the other. We've got this week..., I don't know if it's coincidence, causation – chance –, I'd say it's more random, right? , two themes about childhood: we had the syndic's appearance and today Ciutadans' motion, which precisely aimed to pal·liare and try to fix to what the syndic denounced in his appearance the other day. And fix those areas that looked more gloomy. The truth is that it was a little shady the syndic's appearance, because, like Convergence, it looks like we're still fanciful, with the syndic seemed to be in a situation... well, what it looked like was that the DGAIA was clearly overflowing, the DGAIA absolutely overflowing, that is, they were trying to lay pieces, glued, but in the background, they were able to contain the allure, but it was running out of water all the way. He warned us, the syndic, of a certain standard emptiness that disempowered the rights of the infants, told us of insufficient rights, insisted – and here the counselor is, because the government has denied it and the syndic has repeated it after there is the government – that there are infants, that there are minors, that they should be supported by their families in order to protect their rights and that, as well, they remain in their original family cores. That, the syndic insists that it is so and it is backwards in this young man. He was talking to us about the insufficient support for families to gather; he was telling us – and that's hard – the lack of attention in the inspection of the DGAIA in public and concerted centres, and we could go on, right? And I think this young lady is a good young lady, as the other groups have done, I also want to thank the Member of the City, so her country and she also wanted to be with each other and explain to us exactly what she wanted to say with every point, etc. And, therefore, we thank him. It seems to me that point 2 is a bit, excessively, profuse; it is to say, of course, that, in the end, the square meters that each child needs to go by regulation and not by parliamentary motion, because, well, in the end, here we will determine exactly..., and we could make motions of forty pages on everything, right? Celebrate, too – and it seems to me that it is an incorporation of Junts for the Yes – the phone of permanent attention. I think it's a very good measure because if families need to be accompanied and supported, then the fact is that they can always hold someone else on the phone who listens to them and gives them solutions that they can celebrate. I'm... the MP of the UPC said she didn't see the distinction between EAIA and SIFE and... well, this whole nomenclature that has this realm of childhood that is... until one learns it... we think that to avoid saturation, precisely, and to better care for infants, it's a good distinction. We also celebrate the academic tutor and celebrate an aspect that no one has ever spoken about, which is the topic to work with and ask the prosecution to agile the shippers who have to deal with minors. It has not been discussed, but it is true that the right of the child must always be sought, above all. But yesterday he went out to La Vanguardia, today he was interviewed by RAC1, a mother to whom his infant was taken from the pit, the first day after he was born and, at the end of two years, the courts gave him the reason and told him that he should not have been treated by that infant, right? And, therefore, as we still have no children in common, as was the case with that well-known interview, we still have to recognize that the first child's right is the child's right; but we also have to be very curious about the country's power of families, and first we have to follow the child's right, but we have to speed up, precisely, the processes, because if a family believes that it has been supported – I don't know if it's the technical word that is being used – its child, to veto its rights, and therefore it has to resort to rapid process guarantees because it can make an appropriate decision quickly. Finish it. The PSC has presented some papers, advancing Ciutadans, pressing the government more. And we celebrate, for these concrete, urgent measures, these three-hundred new places... CRAE and CREI, which the CUP gave us, so many times they had criticized giving the others that it is that "there was no presuppositional departure, so now they say it. But in the end, we have to prioritize, and this is a necessity for foster children and foster families in Catalonia. Many thanks, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.101.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Laura Vílchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.102.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I want to thank all the groups that have made presentations to our young man, for the cooperation and willingness to improve the text they have shown. To the deputy Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Group, I would like to thank the generosity, to congratulate him also for his involvement, which we share, with child in Catalonia. The papers have contributed, as Mr. Sánchez said, to a higher degree and to a more accurate conclusion of some of the initial objectives. Thanks, then, to Mr. Moreno for the job. Together for the Yes, and concretely with Congresswoman Montserrat Vilella, we could find a theme in which to recognize shortcomings, in which to work folded; therefore, to thank the Congresswoman for the task she has done to mediate with the Government because this young man comes, in part, forward. He knows that we've tried to find points of agreement that we've achieved, but he also knows that what we can't..., the thought that we can't accept was point 9, which is almost a literal transcript of the words that the Secretary of Social Affairs addressed to us at the Commission for Children. We haven't been asking for three hundred seats, it was his words. Comment that in the previous Ple – also for a comment he made – I already appreciated the work done by the professionals, and surely if the protection system works a little better it is thanks to them, all the difficulties. We haven't been able to talk to Congresswoman Gabriela Serra for quite some time, even though I also appreciate the points that have come to us, some of which we have not accepted. Number 8 we did not accept it on the subject of young extolls, but not because we do not agree, but because we considered it to be a topic that deserves a monotheme proposal to study it rigorously and that we will surely find ourselves. I must also confess to Gabriela that the thought she presented us with total suppression of point 2 surprised us, as at least. I recommend you come to the childhood commissions, huh? , because if you had come, instead of going to the Constituent Procedure, you would have seen that the syndic of weights before yesterday, precisely, told us that it was all necessary this type of protocol. [[Some applause.]] The rest of the groups, even though they have not submitted papers, such as the Popular Party or Catalonia Yes it is Pot...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.103.0	He's run out of time. I'm having a hard time, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.104.0	...they have commented on my vote in favour, so thank you all. "Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.105.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Mrs. Vilella, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.106.0	Thank you, President. To ask for a separate vote from '1, of 2, I understand that the 2a is separate from the 2... Therefore, the vote was separate from '1, 2 and 9.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.107.0	Thank you. [[Gabriela Serra Frediani asks to speak.]] Lady Serra, for...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.108.0	To ask for a separate vote from the 5 also, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.109.0	Five?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.110.0	Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.111.0	We have been asked to vote separately from points 1, 2, 5 and 9, so that we begin by voting on number 1, 2, 5 and 9, and in the end we will vote on the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] So now, let's start the vote by voting point number one. The vote begins. It was rejected by 60 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number two. The vote begins. It was rejected by 60 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number five. The vote begins. It was approved by 123 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 9. The vote begins. It was approved by 62 votes to two, with 69 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. It was approved by 133 votes in favour. [[applause]] , head against and head abstention. The session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon; many thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.112.0	Let's resume the session. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, okay. The Ciutadans have already asked me for a minute more on time. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into air quality]] [[302-00039/11]] The agenda item is: Motion following the question to the Government on the quality of the area presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Lord Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.113.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs, despite the fact that we still have pockets in the Chamber, this is an important issue from our point of view. Look, we talked about fifteen days ago, the economic crisis had an effect on the reduction of pollution in the area of Barcelona and, despite this, the two quality plans of the area that the Government of the Generality formulated and presented, to the opinion of the European Union, were not enough or not enough to end up with a problem that we have, which is a persistent and continuing problem. Now, with the arrival of the first symptoms of recovery and, therefore, of increased mobility – above all mobility, private transit – we have seen that the year 2015 has already seen a return to pollution. In fact, of the thirty control stations we have in Barcelona, Baix Llobregat, Vallesos and Barcelona, twelve failed to comply with the European Directive on various contaminants, basically nitrogen oxides and particulate matter. It is a problem for public salvation, and this problem is not just the peaks that are given at times, in concrete times at the length of the year. The problem, from our point of view, is that together and annually, practically every day, we are in a high middle of these levels of contamination. We all know which are the main focus of emissions, both for what it does to the oxides and for what it does to the particles: a little more than 50_per_cent from land transport, a 19_per_cent from industry and approximately 20_per_cent from activity to the port of Barcelona. I think we all agree on the diagnosis – we all agree on it, I hope, huh? –, that we all agree that we need to plant in front of the contamination, because this is one of the main reptes of the administrations, not only in Catalonia, I would say that to the rest of the world. Let us insist again: the solution of this problem to voluntary agreements cannot be trusted. One of the objectives of this motion, therefore, is precisely, through the tables that have already begun to form between the government and the local administration, to set a time limit to review the quality plan of the area and to agree on new proposals, some of which must be complimented. No... I'm going back to insist, not just volunteering, but complimenting. We also urge the Government, on the line of which the Councillor announced, to present a plan for the progressive reduction of the traffic of private vehicles around the Barcelona area. It also has to limit and plan together with the assemblies the low-emission areas, and that's why it's essential to get into the vehicle label, huh? , not on the line of what is being done at these times, which is laudable, but, of course, it started with the simplest, the most efficient, the most ecological. What we need to start is also to label those that cause the problem, which are the oldest or most polluting, which is what will enable us to activate these low-emission areas. Also approve, in a six-month term, a vehicle replacement plan for the Administration Service for such a procurement of electric and sustainable vehicles, because it is the Administration that must start to set an example. We also want to urge the port authority to establish a plan to reduce emissions in this large country infrastructure, with the use of fuels of lesser environmental impact and, above all, to establish a progressive plan for electrification of the port for the connection of crevices and ships. We all know, too, that diesel fuel engines are a factor in increasing nitrogen oxides and requiring manufacturers to comply with their obligations in relation to the trueness of emissions. In short, Members, Members, from our point of view – and this is the feeling, too, of the motion – which is to maintain and increase awareness and information about the negative consequences of pollution, which they have on the economic activity of the country, on the environment and, above all, on public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.114.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mrs. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.115.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Members, Members, actually, we have contamination problems in some areas of Catalonia, it is obvious and we all agree. The most relevant contaminants, which are also these for which the European Commission has infringing releases, could be summarized in PM10, and concretely here, on Vic's plane, with better records in 2015 relative to 2014; in the area of Vallès, data are used in relation to 2014, and in the area of Ebre, but in this case very much associated with a very concrete industrial activity. And so we also have another high-level contaminant, which is nitrogen dioxides, mainly in the area of Barcelona and Vallès, at levels similar to 2014. We agree that the most important form, which generates these contaminants in these areas, is the use of private vehicles, and, in this sense, we are also in the fact that it falls, right? for one place, therefore, to assess the effectiveness of the measures adopted and to correct those which are necessary, to promote new measures allowing the replacement of the private vehicle for public transport – all believe that we share it – and, thirdly, to promote the necessary measures to facilitate the adoption of cleaner and less polluting technologies. But we can't ignore reality, and when we do this day, we can't make all the diesel vehicles disappear today. I mean, that's impossible, and I think we're all clear, too, right? Mirin, we share sustainability policies, but sustainability is not just an environmental concept, but it is cross-cutting, and it is also an economic and social concept. Today the sales of diesel vehicles represent to Spain a 65_percent of the total sales, because to pretend that they disappear is not sustainable from the economic point of view, both entrepreneurs and private individuals. But, besides, 80_percent of the Catalan production of vehicles is diesel, and these reflections on the fact here, in Parliament, only a few days ago, the unions of UGT and the Workers' Commissions, to the committee of study of the automotive sector, that they say it would be a mistake to target policies that go against what we produce. And, therefore, we also understand that these measures are not sustainable from a social point of view. Therefore, we... well, we have put forward some ideas, but we will support practically the whole movement, except, therefore, at those points that we consider to require less strenuous measures and more thought-provoking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.116.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word "Mrs. Marina Bravo", of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.117.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we spoke here a month ago on the same subject. In our case it was a very concrete proposal, a few things have been included today, it is a little more general; some of the points in Motion 72 of the legislative Assembly are repeated – we have nothing to say, we think it is good that they are put back on the table – and some new ones are added, which we will comment on below. If we want to say that putting this issue back on the table shows at least two things: one, that there is growing awareness in this Parliament about environmental pollution, and two, that there are very good intentions, but that there is little materialisation. If not, of this motion that we have so much talked about, of the 72, more than two years ago and we would already be beginning to see results. It also seems that we quite agree on what the problem is. We are clear that most of the environmental pollution in the metropolitan area comes from the use of the private vehicle. That's what all the studies say, and you can't deny it. We know that the only way to reduce pollution then is either by reducing emissions or by reducing the number of vehicles. The whole motion goes in that line. The reduction in emissions is at points 4, 5, 6, 7 and 19 and decrease in circulation at points 8, 9 10, 11, 15 and 18. It's practically everything. We agree with all of them and, of course, we will vote in favour. On concreteness, we are still on the same line as we were and on the same line as our motion; reducing the number of vehicles, because it seems to us that we are all going to vote in favour, but we want to start concretely. Our amendment in this line proposes a single, very specific, thing: that a feasibility study be carried out on a supra-municipal scale, which is not left at the level of each of the municipalities, of the reduction of the use of private vehicles. To analyse what measures are feasible and do not adversely affect mobility; what measures would harm mobility and, therefore, some prior or subsequent or complementary action must be taken; what results can be expected in order for follow-up to be possible, if they are to be effective, if not, if they are worth taking, if not. If we do not do these studies we always stay in the classic debate that there is a lot of pollution, which is a very complicated issue and that we are doing things, but the results are difficult to achieve. To clarify a little the meaning of the vote in relation to what Marisa has commented, we will say that the issue of diesel vehicle bonuses, which we will, in principle, vote in favour, is because we understand that the bonuses that are here at the autonomous level are for use of this vehicle and that since the last doubts about the reliability of the level of emissions of these vehicles have arisen, they are already being withdrawn by the Government, which seems to us to be entirely reasonable. Also on the subject of labelling we understand that when it is said that – I do not remember the text exactly now – the current priorities on the subject of labelling will be reversed because the Government of the State of Spain is first labelling the least polluting to improve, we understand that this part we do not discard, but that in the work that is being done from now on we also have to think about the most polluting in case some restrictions have to be established. In that sense, we also agree, it was just to clarify. Things are done, we don't say no, but we have to start offering results to the citizens. I think we're starting to be on the line and from our group, of course, we're going to continue working on it. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.118.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.119.0	Counselor, deputies, deputies, president... well, thanks to the Jordi Terrades for this new motion, but we must say that it does not bring much novelty. She's a young lady who'd come to finish, as Mrs. Bravo said, Motion 72 and Motion 18/XI, which we approved one month ago. We have been able to make a few compromises, but I thank the Member Terrades, but there are other questions in which we have not been able to reach an agreement, and it is in those that they are concrete. Let's see... and hey, las! This is why it is a matter of realising and, above all, of the model. And I think this young man doesn't approach the model. Goes or goes a little pointy. Because in the end, when we talk about the quality of the area we are also talking about a model of mobility, because, in the end, the problems we have of the quality of the area in the metropolitan area are basically derived from the mobility. A small part of industrial emissions and a large part of mobility. And I believe that this is where the motion does not address concrete measures. Why? Because that means facing the model and facing a very powerful lobby or not facing, I mean, positioning yourself in front of a very powerful lobby, which is the engine lobby, which is true, generates a lot of work places and with which you will have to work to change all this. And that means changing the pattern for him, and we think that here the PSC, so at least this young man didn't want to go that far. And we see it because... well, for various aspects that I'm going to degregate and the items that you didn't want to approve of. Of course, mobility and air quality. It's all right with the deal we made from point eight, isn't it? , low-emission areas, which we have made a deal to do the study and so on, but, you see, I want to make this clear. When we talk about low-emission areas or urban areas with a protected atmosphere, we are talking about the same thing that they do in Berlin, in London, to seventy cities of Germany, that it is to reduce the traffic round in the center of cities and, therefore, to be able to apply quality measures or we are talking about what the Quality Plan of the area says, which are two measures – two measures –, counselor, very light? One is: when there are jobs, when there are fears of quality in the area, we go down to the side of the schools, to 30_metres, and we put measures for the issue of parking in the bad zone and green zone; that's fine, but that's not the point of the problem, which is that in the center we have to reduce the volume of traffic, we like it or not like it. And we already know that it has consequences. That's why, well, as a matter of fact, accepting what Mrs. Bravo said, I'm studying this one, which will tell us how to do it. And what are we talking about when we talk about ZUAP zones or low-emission zones? That I don't care, the concept, what I want is what I do. Here in Barcelona, we should be able to do it, why do we have the rounds, huh? That they could make it easier for us. Clearly, to make this go to another arena, to make it easier, it's the subject of labelling. Here, we have already made a sufficiently detailed and powerful statement, that there were the themes of how we change the label, from the red label to the grotto label, because, of course, here to say that the ones that contaminate are the oldest are a bit of a trap, because there can't be any of us, that they still inject on the engine or depose the type of fuel, that contaminate too much. Therefore, this is to say the ancients, so we give air to the automotive industry and make more plans Renovation, no. The theme of labelling must come from the theme of fuel, from the theme of engine type, whether it is from injection or not, from the theme of toning. And here we make a proposal that has not been accepted. They felt it, too. The theme of the diesel, to tell the industry that I completed. You see, we give it to you with a softness... ; Mr. Terrades is giving it to the industry that..., requires it to the automotive sector that I complete. You see, after what happened to this diesel, man, I'd ask for a little more power here, which was what we gave to the puzzle. In other words, here we have to investigate what has happened to this fraud of the diesel applying the principle of the European Union from which it pays, we have to complain to the Volkswagen Group and to the other manufacturers who have committed fraud returning the various bonuses, etc. But over here, we've gone from point to point. The other issue that they haven't accepted, and that's important to us, is that of megatrucks. Clearly, if we're talking about a mobility model, a non-polluting mobility model, megatrucks are an element, for us, perilous. The counselor makes me not with the head, but, well, we have a safety commission that we can discuss. For us, yes, because the goods have to be electrified and they have to go by rail, and because our reelers, counselor, are not qualified to have trucks of this tone, but it is a subject that we will already discuss. In short, because I'm done... And nothing more than... they haven't accepted any of us on the subject of corporate mobility plans, which the Generality can set an example here. In short, that we do not have to legislate so much, that what we have to do is complete what we approve, complete what is legislative. And we know it's hard, but there's an interest in salvation, because we all have a right to a clean air, because of climate change, and, in the end, also because of an economic issue. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.120.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Mr Carles Prats, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.121.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, distinguished Mr Terrades, the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes is decided to boost the quality of the area in Catalonia. In Barcelona, environmental events of atmospheric contamination are very rare; Councillor Rull acknowledged during the inquiry into the past Ple that there is a problem with the Barcelona conurbation with the annual means of nitrogen dioxides and suspended particles. In Catalonia we have the Pla de migliora of the quality of the air and of the tables of the quality of the air to the conurbation of Barcelona and Tarragona. The Government has clear who are the concrete measures that can be applied to reduce atmospheric pollution: more public transport, implementation of T-Mobility, reduction of vehicles, more clean traffic, implementation of vehicle labelling, creation of protected urban areas, promotion of bicycle use and application of action protocols when declaring environmental episodes; better distribution systems for goods, etc. These actions require time for their design, consent, and implementation far exceeds the past month, for example, since the last motion presented for the Ciutadans Group. We think we need to trust and give the government enough time to push them. While the application of these measures does not depend exclusively on a single administration, the Government of Catalonia is determined to lead its implementation; it would be appropriate for the remaining administration and also for this chamber to collaborate with the same teamwork and maximum technical and scientific rigour. Mr. Terrades, we do not agree with one hundred_per_cent in the analysis or in the solutions of the motion presented by your group, but we understand the meaning of this. We will collect the proposed measures, because, either the government is already due to them, or because they are in line with what is planned, but we consider that the motion is oblivious to the rest of the territory of Catalonia and above all oblivious to the measure that would have the most impact on the reduction of the atmospheric contamination resulting from the land transport, causing 50_percent of all emissions, and this measure is said to be rail services of road, regional and freight trains. What the Spanish State has shown over the past forty years that it has neither had nor has any interest in improving the network of rolling and regional trains, since Juntes per el Si we would like to collect the total transfer to Catalonia of the rolling and regional train infrastructure with the corresponding assumption. We don't want any more promises of railway rock plans from the Spanish state, we want done. In the next few years we will have to ask the citizen of this country for the involvement in the application of pollution mitigation measures and we will also have to offer them real alternatives to private transport, and this happens primarily because the railway network expands and improves. From now on, we believe that the best measure of reducing air pollution and improving the mobility of citizens is the total and immediate transfer of the rail network of regional trains and rolling stock to the Generalitat de Catalunya. Thank you, President; thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.122.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms. Mireia Boya, of the Parliamentary Group Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.123.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, well, Catalonia continues to be incomplementary was European legislation its contamination of air, second and later report by the Department of Territories and Sustainability. It is areas most affected by its area of Barcelona, Vallès, Baix Llobregat, Plana de Vic, which concentrate 60 per cent of this Catalan population. Dilhéu, this explains this second motion with repeated points, that we will already vote a month ago, because and to parties that are in pre-campaign election. Rebrembar, tanben, that it was Generalitato to doubt two sanctions of this European Commission : it was first deth 2005, for nitrogen dioxide, and it was second, 2010, to exceed the limits annaus of suspended particles. It was the European Union that refused the extensions that e Govèrn asked for the compliments of these two sanctions. Therefore, it was quality to air her a theme, urgent not, very urgent. We believe that the report of this report was a very good one. It was now graved by the contamination of the air and the situation we are in. In fact, it was his advice, in statements, compared..., well, heh eth similar in all saying that Barcelona is not Pequín, that we do not have this bereavement that we do not want to see, and that it is London or Paris, that you have important peaks of contamination, even though you do not tell him that it was better year in Barcelona and very early than in Paris, that in Beijing and that in London, and therefore I am a very serious and urgent problem. This is a point which many people have already spoken about, which they have already approved, and which we have again voted on, but it has not yet been ratified, and we think that it will not be better for air to be delivered unless there is a progressive reduction in the transit of private vehicles in the Barcelona Metropolitan Area, a progressive and drastic reduction, even if there are areas of low emission on a supra-municipal scale; it will not be achieved unless there is a restriction on the transit of cities to centres, if there is a label, as proposed as a motion, even though it was planning for a model of sustainable mobility. Here we talk a lot about cars, as long as we don't talk about pedestrians, bicycles, or public transport, and that's what all of us are talking about, big cities around the world. Alavetz, we're going to have to move on to the piles. We're not going to be late. So much for the better quality of the air if we continue to finance it was the purchase of private vehicles. As a guest, we consider that public money is intended for public services and not for private goods. By the way, it's aid policies now buying this private vehicle their subsidy policies directed at the motor industry now, and there's no type of justification neither social, nor economic, nor environment; and playing damb eth miei ambiente and playing damb was bad for people now. It's going to be better now that air quality was advised... what I've been doing was building and expanding road infrastructure. Or next, as we want to reduce eth transit we are talking about expanding it was round coast, it was highway of Sant Andreu - Sagrega, it was expansion dera C-58, eth lane lateral dera C-16...? It seems to me that this is not going to reduce transit and that, at last, with the same number of cars, it was not better air quality in the metropolitan area. Adopting plans urbanist directors such as eth deth circuit Barcelona Catalonia, known as Espai Motor, which will consist in the municipalities of Granollers, Montmeló and Parets, and which will cause an increase in emissions in the most conflictive area of the metropolitan area, tanpoc aid brick. From here, a PDU to which you were studying strategic environment does not study, does not assess the impact of its own activity generated, was not of air quality, nor climate change; and a PDU to measure because it responds to the interests of this RACC. We are not talking about a ban on the movement of large-tonnes trucks, we are not talking about a progressive barrage plan for incinerator plants, and in the end we are still on the surface, are we not? And all of this, we do not have any objections to denounce that we have not yet taken root of this problem, but we voted in favour of it altogether, so we abstained from asking for reasons to be brought before the Spanish State, because we no longer ask for the surrender of the Spanish State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.124.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Lord Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.125.0	What's the point of the problem? The problem here is that we approve motions, seventy-four of the previous legislature, which, like all Members of Parliament, know, how the legislature fell, the motion also fell, huh? And, therefore, our intention has been to bring this issue here another time to take action and to make a subject, from our point of view, quality respects previous proposals that it is done, that is that this table of concertation that we ask to Councilman Rull that leads, that there must also be local administrations, Metropolitan Area of Barcelona and Assembly of Barcelona, in the term of a year present measures of compulsory compliment. Among other things because the current Barcelona government..., Mrs Grau, I have also not seen Mrs Colau propose low-emission areas. Turns out when it comes to talking about issues, these things, so, they have to have their own complication. What do we say to the government and local administrations in the metropolitan area, the metropolitan region, in a wide sense? They're watching and they're taking action, and they're taking action around this, huh? This is the final feeling of this young man. And, finally, what cannot be, Mrs. Xandri, is that here we go backwards, that its government vagi – that of Spain – contrary to what the European Union is doing. Someone said that yesterday, didn't they? Mr. Rajoy is not like Mrs. Merkel, and as long as he doesn't! Do you know what the German government did yesterday? Yesterday the Government of Germany approved a presupposition of €1,000_million precisely to help subsidize the purchase of net vehicles, electric vehicles, with the objective that, in Germany, year 2020, can circulate already 1_million of these types of vehicles. This is the strategic stake for the automotive industry in our country as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.126.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Call it a vote. [[Miss Boya and Busquet ask to speak.]] Miss Boya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.127.0	Yes, President. The vote was taken separately at 16 and 17. [[Carles Prats and Cot ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.128.0	Mr. Prats.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.129.0	Madam President, we also wanted to ask for a separate vote on item 18.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.130.0	18...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.131.0	a. [[Pause. Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.132.0	Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.133.0	For a separate vote, on the side of point 2, and on the other side, on points 6, 9 and 16.a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.134.0	Mr. Rodriguez, there are no 2, because point 2 and point 3 have been included in point 1. Excuse me. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.135.0	Excuse me for a moment, but I have an earlier version of the motion's definite text.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.136.0	It's all right. Read it and tell us what. [[Long break. Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, say... - say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.137.0	It's points four on one side, and for the other, 8, 11 and 18.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.138.0	21st? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The 18th, they had already asked for it. Well, yeah. For the time being, therefore, we have been asked to vote separately from points 4, 8, 9, 11, 16, 17 and 18. [[Miss Boya and Busquet ask to speak.]] Miss Boya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.139.0	I don't think I got the last version, because I don't have a point 18.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.140.0	So, there is – there is. I'm having a hard time, huh? But we'll have to wait. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.141.0	So, I correct the separate vote: it's the 18th and the 19th, the last two.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.142.0	And what would you want to separate? The 18th and 19th?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.143.0	The 18th, sencer, and the 19th, sencer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.144.0	Therefore, I repeat, they have called for a separate vote on points 4, 8, 9, 11, 16, 17, 18 and 19. Right? [[Pause.]] So, we'll start voting for four, we'll all vote, and in the end, the rest of the vote, as we always do. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, come on. We're voting point number four. The vote begins. It was approved by 120 votes to 7, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes to 7, with 7 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 9. The vote begins. It was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 11. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes to 7, with 7 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 16. The vote begins. It was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number 17. [[Pause.]] The vote begins – I'm sorry. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 18. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We stop the vote – we stop the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 18th. So, let's start voting again. Let's go vote 18th. We're voting for the 18th. The vote begins. It was approved by 52 votes in favour, against and 77 abstentions. Next, we will vote on the number 19– 19. The vote begins. It was approved by 119 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. [[Miss Boya and Busquet ask to speak.]] Miss Boya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.145.0	The remainder of the 18th is missing; we also want to vote separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.146.0	So, now we vote them separately. I didn't have a point, did I? The b and c can we vote them together, Mrs Boya?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.147.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.148.0	Yeah? So, anyway, we're now voting 18.b. and 18.c. The vote begins. It was approved by 119 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. And now we're moving on to the new order of the day... [[The first vice president said: "The rest of the youth is missing.]] I voted for it before, didn't I? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, So, let's vote. We're voting for the rest of the young man. The vote begins. It was adopted by 129 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into environmental security]] [[302-00040/11]] And now we move on to the new item on the agenda, which is: Motion following the question to the Government on environmental security, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it, has the word Francisco Javier Domínguez. [[Pause and voice of the background.]] Yes, yes, congressman; when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.149.0	Good afternoon. First, thank you to the body that seems to have come almost completely; thank you for coming and for being interested. This movement of medium-environmental security, although in the end it remained only « environmental..., I want to start my intervention going to the 19th century, which, well, an engineer of mountains of Tarragona, Rafael Puig i Valls, who was the one who instituted the day of the tree, said that the degree of civilization of a country is measured by the state of its forests. Well, this is only a part of what this motion is about, but it's a pretty important part. Having said that, I want to say that I am very happy, for the motion itself, for the expectation and interest that has aroused in all Members and also outside this area of the Chamber, but it is also that a few days after making the inquiry on this subject, right in the local newspapers of Tarragona, in the Més Tarragona i in the Diari, right at three or four days, two news emerges in which the rural agents are appointed. And it made me so funny because I don't remember how long it's been since a rural agent came out of my city newspaper. So I don't know if it's random, but at least I want to think it is; it's a little drop on the right path. And it came out, therefore, precisely with one of the most important issues, which is the investigation of forest fires, of the causes. And the other news is the collection of an exotic species from a courtyard of a house. Two completely different examples that show a little the variability of work that this body develops. But this..., I want to say that this motion, although it may seem to be about giving solutions to a specific collective's demands, I want to explain that the improvements of this collective are a side effect; in this case, positive. That is to say, of course, we must be happy and we must fight for the advantages of a collective, but especially when, in point 1 of this motion, it says that "the cos d'Agents Rurals will naturally benefit workers, but they will benefit from doing their work in better conditions; they will benefit from making their work more efficient, and from protocols allowing them to coordinate with other services; they will benefit from improving their training, from going with a better equipped vehicle and from being part of it..., or from forming a more complete structure, with the technical and administrative support that their work requires. These are improvements, but of course these improvements are not only for the workers, they are for the result of these workers. I, personally, have been very involved because I have lived, suffered or touched upon a situation in which you are very eager, but few resources; in which you have a high degree of demand, but a bad organization, and I know that this generates frustration in the workers and a great risk of not covering with the service and with the objective that you have marked. Without a properly sized and equipped body of rural agents it is not possible to simultaneously attend to the surveillance of the laying of some birds in the Natural Park of the Delta and, at the same time, the requirements of fire prevention in the natural park next to it, which is the Natural Park of the Ports, and at the same time monitor the appearance of a dolphin near the coast. That is to say, if we want a sustainable society and every time, as a society, we value more and more the environmental quality of our environment, we have to guarantee environmental security, which is how we ensure compliance with the rules, and for that we have to guarantee a well-organized body of rural agents with the prestige that it deserves. And then in the reply we will talk about the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.150.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.151.0	Thank you, President. Counsel..., greet, first of all, the representatives of Asparc who are accompanying us today. Well, my intervention I want to start the same way that the councillor did when she was questioned, that she is gracious to the deputy who questioned the councillor and that today she presents the young man, gracious to the deputy, right? , that you present this young man, because he addresses a reality, a reality that he sometimes approaches in this Parliament, and that is that of the Coast of Rural Agents. If I have to be honest, I also have to say that I was hoping that under this title of 'environmental security' I would refer to other questions, but I think that it is very uncertain, as I said, to devote some time to Parliament to the agents who will see that the management of our environment is the right way, as well as the interbanks that are found on the way. Therefore, and taking into account the role played by the agents and their union, Asparc, from the People's Party, we have taken advantage of this motion to bring everything that has happened. Because, ultimately, who really knows the CAR's shortcomings are them, and that's why we have limited ourselves to being a spokesman, through the papers submitted as a result of their requests. More than anyone knows what their reality is, what they find every day, right? , and if we want them to continue to manage the environment from a point of view of protection and prevention, the Government will have to commit itself to taking a series of measures and giving compliments to a series of motions which, as Mr Domínguez himself recalled, have already been approved in other legislatures. We didn't meet with representatives of Asparc for many days, and they moved their discomfort before the little support they have for the advice they give to the staff issue, a matter dealt with sufficiently in this case and that will be enriched if we accept the points we have presented, which I think we have – in the end they are nothing more than a claim of effect. Highlight the wide deployment of the three own years of the professional categories established for the CAR Law 17/2003, until reaching the one hundred and sixty major agents of the different specialties and the one hundred and twenty officials provided for in the CAR Working Conditions Agreement 2007-2010, thus they will be able to guarantee the specialized functions, as well as the operational direction and coordination of the work teams, support groups and special groups. It's not about the other world, it's just that the law is complete. And in this line they also claim something that doesn't happen in most places of the Administration, and that is the fact of covering with personal interest the downloads that are temporarily not operational, so, because of low work, surplus, etc. We also include in the motion's point on strengthening the CAR structure with administrations, informatics, legal advisors, a human resources service that allows the deployment of the body to be completed. Other questions that concern this collection: all that refers to the coordination of the CAR training unit with the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia, we demand to determine more clearly the need for training with which the ISPC has to provide rural agents. This is why we see fit the modification of item 1.12, which refers to the functions of the officers, "in the exercise of duties" of their coercive functions such as the special administrative police and the environmental judicial police. And if we're talking about coordination, it's about focusing on the need to establish protocols; protocols that stick to the list of agreements that currently have in other things and serve. Another important issue that we have presented as a concern is the creation of a dedicated communications office that is dedicated to real-time reporting of environmental safety incidents in which rural agents are involved. In this way it will be possible to give greater transparency and immediate visibility to the data obtained by the agents in their actions for which it makes environmental emergencies and outstanding actions. Installation theme. It can implement nine of its basic areas, and for this, as the same thing calls for, we urge the Government to approve an implementation schedule, thus creating an action commitment, improving the security performance of current locations. And as I don't have much more time, just to finish, I want to thank the deputy who proposed this motion, so that you have accepted the majority of statements that the People's Party has presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.152.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Ms. Montserrat Fornells, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.153.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, deputies and deputies, chief executive officer of Forests, who is also here in the Chamber, representatives of the Rural Agents' and Asparc's House, also present here today, very late everyone. We're here to debate a Ciutadans motion on environmental security, on the cos of rural agents. From the Junts for the Yes Group, we believe that the Rural Agents Cos, the CAR, is a foundational structure for the country, a state structure. The CAR, the Rural Agents Cos, has four areas of work: the protection of fauna, the prevention and investigation of fires, the protection of forest resources and the protection of natural spaces. More than that, they have a whole task of environmental education, which end up both in school as well as in farmers, and also in collaboration with emergencies, through the different plans of action, and in safety in the rural world, in collaboration with the Mossos d'Esquadra. The same councillor, in this hemisphere, made clear the position of the department on the CAR – on the CAR – which is a basic structure of our country, which calls for a strengthening and restructuring of the body as a priority for this legislature, which would call for new jobs that are vacant, which would last in terms of training plans, more transparency. In short, after years, it is necessary to restructure the body and strengthen it well, to give the public service that both professionals and citizens of this country deserve. However, as everyone and everyone in this House knows very well, many of the proposals that both the department, the government, and this Parliament, want to develop and hard to finish – and that we will approve today in a few points of this motion – so that we can finish them and make them effective, and see their result and functioning, as there is a new premise. That is to say, to incorporate and increase the opportune presuppositional parties so as to have the basic resources to implement the sundial agreements. Because, if not, we're flying pigeons and generating false expectations both at the Rural Agents' Center and at the people's. From here I wanted to thank the deputy of Ciutadans, Mr Domínguez, for his willingness to speak and reach agreements accepting some of the papers of our group, and also for trading papers from other groups. It's complicated, with the time we have, to go into detail, point by point, from our position to the different points of this young man. I'll do it, though, I'm a few of them. We believe that it is basic and necessary to make the strategic plan of the body and also to elaborate a dimensional study. With this you will see what we really need. Can you tell the babalà that we have to cover a hundred and sixty seats? That's why we reject point 1.3; we first study and size well and correctly what we need. In fact, the Secretary-General has already negotiated and managed to approve the call for fifteen seats with EUR 500,000; one hundred and sixty seats would amount to more than EUR 5 million. It's not that simple. We all want..., we all agree, we all want to have more effect, but I need to be aware of the resources we have and what we can do with these. Since 2007 the whole theme of the Rural Agents Cos has been stuck. There hasn't been much of it in nine years. The department has already begun to work and remodel it. It's only four months since they took possession of the cargo, but as the key structure that is there will be a lot of effort to improve the situation. We need to make the necessary plans and studies, and we've already begun to work to end this anomalous situation. Regarding point 1.4, we do not agree because the law does not allow the whole staff of the Rural Agents Cos to be covered by the law; as Article 9 says, so that the members of the cos are still running. For what it does at point 2.2, we do not agree either because this work is already given and is after the end of the same DARP offices. Therefore, it is not necessary to create more duplicities and generate unnecessary expenses. With regard to points 3 and 4, we do not agree either, because, in fact, it is already planned and is working to elaborate this weapons use regulation. It's one of the objectives of this legislature, but it's impossible to keep it for this 2016. For what it does at point 7, we don't agree, either, because it's a fall that escapes from the Rural Agents' cos and goes further than this young man. Throughout the presentation, the position of the Group of Joints for Yes in this motion is to approve most of the points, and in some of those we disagree or abstain or vote against. To finish my intervention, I would like to thank the task that all the bodies of rural agents are carrying out, and with the desire to face a future better for the body, solving some of the shortcomings they have. Many thanks to all the good ones late. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.154.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The words of Mr Ordeig of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.155.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies..., a very special greeting to all the collection of rural agents you accompany us, to the professional association, to the unions. I believe that, obviously, I am in addition to the rest of the companies to say that it is important for the plenary, from time to time, to take a look at how the Rural Agents' Centre is doing, if the previous commitments acquired in other monograms, plenarys, commissions, and to make a debate on the state of the question, and to re-place us to resolve these issues that are still on the table and that are pending. Therefore, we have a few; this young man has proved it. And what we would call, taking advantage, of course, of the fact that there is the Council, the different parliamentary groups..., which we believe; that we believe, because many days ago we are debating, we have reflected on who we respect for the environment, who must be the material infrastructure, the personal infrastructure that rural agents must have, the import for our country, the large number of square kilometres of forest mass that we have, and that we can manage them, and that is why we need rural agents with all the necessary resources, but then we do not just implement the measures that all the delegations agree, under the circumstances, because sometimes they are between the limits of the measures that we push. Therefore, to say: "Listen, let us believe it and try... I believe that, moreover, there is a very reasonable collection in your requests, with which we can..., let us extend our hand to the Government to say: "Listen, let us schedule those measures which cannot be done immediately and let us proceed progressively. But I do believe that we all agree enough on most of the measures that can be taken forward. They say: "Strengthening of the body. I think that what would be hot, above all, is to stop weakening the body, because it's a few of the collections that..., the crisis has affected everyone, but a collection of 495 rural agents at these times, and going down – and going down. Therefore, all Catalonia can cover... that there is a lot of forest, that there is a lot of territory, and at this time, more and more, that there are migratory movements and that everyone is going to live in metropolitan areas, so, more problems to manage the territory. So it's the rural agents who have to help us. Like, obviously, the abandonment of land, small farms, which also manage the territory. Who's gonna control this? Like, obviously, fire prevention, and this forest mass and biomass management project, we haven't just seen how it goes, huh? , the project, and forest profit. So, man, that means there's a lot of forest mass that's left in our territory, and so we can have problems with access, obviously, and all of its management. Therefore, very good work of the rural agents, of the collectivities that represent them; very good to bring it here, from Ciutadans. Cal..., many of the proposals that are here we have already approved of the agricultural monogram, of the rural world, that we have done. And, therefore, what we say is that we will support most of the points, practically all the points they present. We think... we don't understand how we didn't accept two proposals that we said were common sense, that also help the work of rural agents, that are, we remember, beyond the hunting law, that we all agree, we talk a lot, a thorny issue, it's complicated to get the different sensitivities connected, but we have to pull it forward. We don't have hunting law, the current regulation is 1970. And we also need to do a rethink, which we have approved, of the current system in the follow-up to the national hunting reserves. Nor has it been accepted, in any case, to recover lost places, to deploy professional categories, career plans, to improve coordination with security bodies, sanctioning procedures... We do not have to deceive ourselves, sometimes it has been really uncomfortable for rural workers to be able to sanction and, perhaps for that reason, many times have not given them the interest they required. Therefore, the work is done, it is done well, the guidelines must be clear and then, if everyone knows what competence they have, if the Government and Parliament do the teaching they play, when a sanction is applied and no one has to doubt that they are doing the right thing. Territorial organization; the basic and territorial areas, a dimensioned, decentralized structure that works with the necessary resources. Therefore, from the Socialist Group, obviously, as we have said, we will support it. We regret that some of the proposals that we believe to be important and urgent are not accepted, and obviously we are in favour of the Government which, this time, lasts for the duration of the legislature, we can give the material resources and the human resources needed because rural agents can do their job, and that means that we can manage our territory much better. Thank you, Counsellor, President, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.156.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.157.0	Thank you, President. Counsel..., greet the rural agents, both the people of the professional association as the people of commissions and the other unions, and the agents you accompany us. Well, today, this young man has a name, but he's supposed to say that he's a young man about rural agents, and I'd like to say that he's a young man about rural agents and the natural environment, because at the end of what we're talking about is the protection of the natural environment. And he thanked me... well, first of all, to thank Mr Domínguez, who prepared..., to Congressman Domínguez, because we were able to deal with most of the items that we presented to him, but, said that, he thanked me for returning, right? At the debate when the Law of Rural Agents was made, which, moreover, our group, then the deputy Rafael Ribó, we were not in favour of creating a cos of rural agents, because we thought, we believed in a model of integral police in Catalonia and that in this model of integral police was to be in the Cos de Mossos, so a cos specialized in environmental crimes and in all the question of curing the natural and environmental environment, but in his day, well, this model was made. So now we have to defend him, but curiously enough, because we disagreed and that Mr. Ribó said in the session, it's what we've been seeing that he's been passing. It was said that there would be a problem, that there would be more resources, it was said that there would be a problem of coordination with other bodies, it was said that if there was no strong environmental department, someone who had clear natural environment skills, we would have a problem so that we could see whose responsibility it was, and that is unfortunately, that prophecy, right? It's been a long time. It's been a long time. We've seen that medium natural has been jumping from one department to another, well, now included, right? You have a part of it, but there is a part that we have in Territories and Sustainability, and therefore it will be necessary to clarify, in matters of fauna, of protection of fauna, of protection of flora, of catalegs..., well, it will be necessary to clarify who has the responsibility for what and, therefore, above all for the body, because they are acclaiming. In this sense, we believe that we should develop everything that the motion says, but above all we believe that what is left behind – leave behind – the harmful stage that the thing has to live, has to live from 2010 to 2015 with confrontations with theirs, let us say, political commands, in which they do their denunciation work and have against the same department. And, well, there wasn't much time left when there was all the issue that the prosecutor had to be, where they were denouncing urban issues, urban fraud... and, well, we had a very serious debate in this Parliament, therefore, because they were supposed not to be able to denouncing it. Or other questions, when they objected to hunting themes, or opposed to wildlife protection themes, or to agriculture themes, purins, etc., and they did not have the understanding, at that time, let's say, of the department. Therefore, here the reflection that we have to do is that they are the environmental police, who are old for the control of the natural environment, and, in this sense, they must have all the support, regardless of who is at the front, because there is a law that makes it very clear to us. On the questions that I would like to highlight from the young lady, that I do not know whether we can approve or not, very important, I think, that the subject of the Maritime Group has been accepted, because the subject of the Maritime is the topic that we have most abandoned. We are very clear about protection in natural parks, in PEIN areas, etc.; we are very clear about the forest theme for prevention, but the topic of marine protection, which we have, more than a few protected areas – ZEPIMs will have to be expanded – so it is a topic that always remains very, very short. Therefore, here, in this sense, you can give this support to the marine protection group. Also a topic that I consider basic is the fact that they may have returned, on the part of all the legal services of the Generality, from all those complaints because, of course, it must be very frustrating that you make a complaint from what is your job and that you do not get the return to know what happened to it, if you have sent it, as the expedient has ended, etc. It is also very important to strengthen the structure of the body. Today, the body is a thing with few agents, a thing that begins to be wrapped up and, above all, a thing that lacks other professionals, other technicians, if we believe that they also have the function, apart from the environmental police, of doing pedagogy. And, of course, we have a lot of territories, we have to change many questions, such as motorized access to the natural environment, and they have to do a lot of pedagogy with pages, with branches, with hikers, with those who are going to make bikes on roads that can't be made bikes. And to do all this we need a structure. Therefore, I hope that we can approve all these points and that we start a new stage, counsel, in which we leave everything that had happened until now. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.158.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr Sergi Saladié, of the Parliamentary Group candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.159.0	All right, thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. First of all, on this young man, to say that it is a young man that we seem very timely to correct a deficit and a historical hardship, both with the Rural Agents' Centre and with what would be the protection of the environment, as well as we, from our point of view, from the CUP, think that rural agents should not be left without their heads and, therefore, we will work with all our strength because, in the end, let us say to ourselves, there are no working people, okay? The ideal would be this, do not be alarmed, because this would mean that, effectively, the society has reached a degree of maturity and collective intelligence, respect for nature, the environment, and it would not be warm for you to work and be able to devote yourself to something else. But as this is not wrong, nor do we have any preventive policies on the protection of the environment, the work done by the Rural Agents' Centre seems to us to be absolutely essential and basic at present and under the current conditions. And, therefore, we have to work – and we understand that this young man puts the points on the is – to frame an authentic work mark, an authentic professional mark for all of these public workers who are old for the preservation of our environment. Actually, when we read this young man, we'd say that rural agents seem to be wandering around with a Saturday and a spread for these mons de Deu, and that's not it, either, huh? - Well, it's not like that. What happens is that they do not work in a few rather precarious conditions – rather precarious – is a question that, obviously, is not a question of the last few months, let us say, counsel, it is something that is not for you, but that is a historical question, it is a thing that, we could say, has been trayed in the public administration, has been marginalized, has been, in fact, three different departments to the length of its history: it has been in Agriculture, it has been in the Interior, it has been in the Environment and it has returned to Agriculture, and always, let us say, a little, there, it has been uprooted. Therefore, this young man, we understand that what he claims to be doing is doing a little justice, too, in the recognition of the work of these and these professionals. In fact, we think that this is due to a lack of political will from the different governments that have taken responsibility for this thing, with some specific exceptions, right? Sometimes they are very personal things, a counselor or adviser who, therefore, well, fits into one thing and pulls forward a series of policies, but has never formed part of the organic part of the different policies of preservation of the environment to have a good thing of rural agents. That could be why, couldn't it? , or for that matter, let us say, so ours, so Catalan, that it is a country – that I have always repeated it and I will continue to repeat it – that we legislate very, manage little and evaluate things. And we have many laws of environmental character that are pioneers – almost always we are the first to make environmental legislation or to preserve the environment – but in change – and there would be: and good laws, as well as better, surely some of them – but in the end, at the time of applying them, we don't do more and less, and in the end we don't value anything. That's one of the hard deficits of public administration, of all public policy, because at the end of the day we don't know well if everything we're doing is for any or no good for anything, right? They are all insights, all of them seem to be; therefore, we do not have mechanisms for self-assessment of these public policies. There's a theme that we've made a statement and that more or less has come together, isn't there? or, in any case, we will deepen in a future, which is the topic of complaints. When reported, rural agents are not informed of the state of processing in which the complaints are found, right? We are very afraid that many of these complaints will vacate there in the department and are not being transmitted. This also generates professional and personal frustration in every job, when you see your job – and in many cases these people give their faces, huh? And they're parting their faces through these territories – they're not recognized, they're not even getting a return from what this job they've done, are they? Therefore, this question is that we have recorded a question in this sense, in order to know the state in which this whole departure of complaints is found that they are processing, and to see who has actually been processed and who has ended, let us say, executing, these complaints. That said, congratulations to Congressman Francisco Domínguez, both for the background and for the way this young man behaved. I suppose, with what we are, tell us, try to get better, don't you? These procedures are a little bit addicted to this house. We've already started to talk about this; practically we've already had closures, so which ones we'll accept and which ones we won't. We are very happy with all the points that have been accepted; there is one that is not, in the end, that is, so... – and I am surprised that from Ciutadans it has not been accepted – that is to try to optimize and put more efficiency to the public administration, and here we have a series of police units, among which there is still Civil Guard through the Seprona, to say: "Well, these, therefore, can already go away, let's say to ourselves, right? And we're already dedicated, of course, and we'd want it more than you would, wouldn't we? But I want to say that, in the end, then, it's about optimising this already. But, well, in any case, of seven items, we have accepted eight; the rest, therefore, are shared with the rest of the groups. The counselor, let's just say..., now you have an important job, because let's say that I think this young man has these bases to reconfigure and bet for which we understand that it is an authentic structure of state, transitoryly, because we have said: "We wish that there is no such thing as Rural Agents. You have work and, anyway, we believe it, don't we? The intuition tells us that a new stage is taking place, that you will bring well among the agents, the different teams of the council, to bring forward most of these proposals. At least that's how we want it from our group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.160.0	Mr. Saladié, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.161.0	Thank you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.162.0	Thank you. Well, then, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Francisco Javier Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.163.0	Well, finally the motion seems to have been very complete, very improved with the contributions of all the groups, but before I said what I had already written, I wanted to say that as much as the differences between some groups are repeated and the emphasis is placed precisely on what we have of different, I hope that the result of the work we are doing these days with the Cos d'Agents Rurals and the confluence between several groups will serve us a little to think that we have so many things in common, many things to work for in the same direction. So, me, before I started talking about anything, I wanted to put it as an example that there's a lot of work to be done that we agree on, and that it's worth making an effort to sit down and go looking for, with touch-ups here, touch-ups there, and go fix problems, because people want to be solved. And let, a little, be the differences and, well, we'll talk tomorrow about the differences and we'll talk today about what we're in common and what we can fix. [[Some applause.]] I, in addition, wanted to thank, well, the words of thanks from the Members who have thanked me for my work, but I would like, above all, to highlight one sentence. There is one sentence I liked about Óscar, which is: « We have to believe it. I totally support it, we have to believe it. And as for the fact that two of the proposals in the Hunting Act and so on have not been accepted, more than because we disagreed is because perhaps there was a bit of a departure from the subject of the motion, because perhaps there is a need, rather than a hunting law, for a law on the regulation of fauna. After that, Mrs Grau's background has also been quite pleasing, and I see that the approach has been to the best, the current approach. So thank you very much. And Sergi's words..., also thank you very much, because it has been a pleasure doing this work with all of you. And I'm already missing... well, the only thing I wanted to comment on is... to make an effort to solve the problems of every day of the people we live in this territory. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.164.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Call it a vote. [[Marisa Xandri Pujol asks to speak.]] Mrs. Xandri.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.165.0	Yes, Madam President, briefly. Only because of contradictions. To the deputy of Junts per el Si, tell her that the proposal of 160 major agents is supposed to specialise 60 more agents, because currently there are not 100, and that the total budgetary increase would be approximately 36,000_euros per year, and not 5_millions, as you said. Thank you very much. [[Sergi Saladié Gil asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.166.0	Mr. Saladié.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.167.0	Yes, we would like to ask for a separate vote on points 1.15 and 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.168.0	1.15 and 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.169.0	1.15 and 3. [[Montserrat Fornells and Sole ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.170.0	Mrs. Fornells.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.171.0	Yes, we would like to ask for separate votes on points 1.3, 1.4, 1.19, 2.2, 3, 4, 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.172.0	1.3...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.173.0	1.4...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.174.0	...1.4...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.175.0	... 1.19...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.176.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.177.0	2.2...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.178.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.179.0	...the 3, the 4, the 7 and the 8.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.180.0	And can all these people vote together or not? I'm asking. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Fornells, can all these people vote together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] You see, we have been asked to vote separately from points 1.3, 1.4, 1.15, 1.19, 2.2, 3, 4, 7 and 8. Is that correct? [[Pause. Montserrat Fornells and Sole ask to speak.]] Mrs. Fornells.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.181.0	We could group the vote on '1.3, 1.4 and 2.2, and the rest, group them, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.182.0	One moment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.183.0	Voting, say it, separate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.184.0	1.3, 1.4...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.185.0	I 2.2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.186.0	I 2.2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.187.0	These, make them together, and the 1.19, the 3, the 4, the 7 and the 8, make them together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.188.0	And you're staying, too, huh? I mean, it's two votes. [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] All right, then. So we start the vote, and we vote together on 1.3, 1.4 and 2.2. Okay? [[Pause.]] Come on, then. The vote begins. It was approved by 70 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Now, then, we'll vote for the rest of the points, that's to say, 1.19, 3, 4, 7 and 8. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, 1.15 and 3 will vote on them later. You asked for a separate vote from these two, didn't you? [[Pause.]] But now we're doing this vote together, even though there's 3 included because we're getting away with it... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? All right, all right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay, so, we don't put the 3 in the package. We vote 1.19, 4, 7 and 8. Is he all right? [[Pause.]] All right, then. Come on, vote 1.19, vote 4, vote 7 and vote 8. The vote begins. They were approved by 71 votes in favour, against and 60 abstentions. We will now vote on point 1.15. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Now we're voting point three. The vote begins. It was approved by 61 votes in favour, against and 71 abstentions. And now we're voting for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into agricultural, fisheries and fisheries policies]] [[302-00042/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on agricultural, fisheries and fisheries policies presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.189.0	Thank you, President. I have already told the Council that what I was looking for with that question and with this motion that we will vote on today was the maximum consensus between the different parliamentary groups before the current problems of the different sectors that affect the young person. They pretend to be something built and that in one way or another they respond to the requests of the different collections, which in general do not go through the best moments. Certainly, this is a young man who gives sufficient coverage to policies in the fields of rowing, especially agriculture and fishing. Like I said, what I'm trying to do is focus on what's happening right now, what's worrying about the different sectors today, and in the end it's gonna be the advice that's gonna end up giving it or not. That said, I want to thank all the groups that have submitted papers, as well as thank you for your willingness to agree. I understand that this is the way to bring our small grain of sorra to improve concrete questions that affect the day-to-day lives of our farmers and farmers, responsible for bringing our agri-food industry forward, meaning doubt one of the main engines of our economy. But unfortunately, this advice accumulates a presuppositional descent of almost 40_per_cent over the last five years, and with an evolution in the income of our pages that continues to accumulate a decrease of 30_per_cent. With these data, the truth is that the future is not a hopeful mass. And that must be added to the lack of stability caused by the different ways of managing on the part of the three advisors, and I don't know how many directors-generals have gone along these five years. Stabilized and a little more presupposition. These must be the department's priorities. Big deal, I'd sum it up in three blocks. First of all, those points that make reference to one of the great concerns in which many branches are found, and is that in fact, of the extensive cabin that we currently have in Catalonia? Some choose to reduce it, to reduce this cabin. But no, I don't think that's the solution. Why? So because each time we export more, and apart from promoting export, what we have to do here is to promote our meat, which is of very high quality. And, therefore, it is necessary to promote internally. So, if we don't want to put limits on our production we can take action now. And with what? How do we take these measures? So, first of all, we have to give the barns facilities, which need to expand their installations, improving the aid plans and speeding up the administrative procedures that are required to make the extension permits. And secondly, it has to be made clear what we do with the amount of waste generated by this beast before the lack of land and the lack of solutions. The point I think is that we are all clear: that we need to create the right mechanisms so that producers can get the maximum yield. The topic of vaccination of the blava language. We know that it is not the same talk of intensive rowing that of extensive rowing, and in this motion we have the requests of the Czech Republic to manifest, and I hope that they have the view of most of the parliamentary groups. Another important block: the theme of the attacks on the cult and the fruit branches of the wildlife and of plagues such as rabbits and senglars. In this sense, we ask to strengthen the CAR Wildlife Management Group, which is guaranteeing compensation to compensate for the damage produced– and here I also want to remember that mountain rowers still expect to collect 48_per_cent of the 2014 BMI– and that it is maintaining the emergence beats. And a third block that's important, which is all about the payments of aid and subsidies to farmers, farmers and the entities in this sector. And so, to ask the band that these payments are made when it comes to, that is, according to the planned calendars, we make another petition to the government, and it is that at the end of one month I prepare a report on the debt you have pending with these sectors. Now we just don't know who exactly is the debt you have. And, therefore, also, a payment schedule. And, finally, I want to make a point of the points that make reference to recreational fishing, we ask the Government that once and for all it deploys the rule of Law 22/2009 and that it does the necessary actions so that Catalan fishermen can have the inter-autonomous demand, with the objective, among others, to bring tourism based on this sport practice. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.190.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, Mr. Óscar Ordeig of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.191.0	Thank you, President. "These humble and wise people were right. There was an misunderstood generation, who had lost the battle of speech. It was ignored, ancient people, artisans, did not understand the world or the progress. Someone would have to recognize them, two years later and a galloping crisis later, that they were right. They look down on their noses when someone wants to sell them the fashion of the nearby product. There is a sage of people, of camp, ridiculed or ignored, that it would be wise to leave engraved because the future that we have to build keeps part of common sense. They are an oasis of the desert of a society more and more addicted, needing labels and diagnostics, anxious, impatient, complaining. Carles Capdevila, published in a newspaper of the country. To claim the agrarian world, to touch from a few to ashore, and after all that has passed, to know that there is an agrarian sector, a competitive rural world... And at these times I think we have an agricultural sector, a primary sector, in danger of extinction, with a drop in the farm income of 39_per_cent. Look for an economic sector in our country that has lowered its income by 39_per_cent. With a download of the farmers' name of 50_per_cent, the total farmers' name, 50_per_cent later years. The main problems facing our country, the primary, agricultural and agri-food sectors: lack of public investment in infrastructure. We want a competitive sector, and the fallows in public investment here and there affect in an important way, because there is less technological infrastructure, less road infrastructure, less modernisation infrastructure, and this affects the competitiveness of the sector. It must not be a subsidised sector, it must be a competitive sector. And if we don't have money to invest, because of the economic crisis, what we have to do is ensure that, like the regulation in the sale, the price crisis... so that there really is a decisive action with sanctions to avoid the sale under price; the price crisis of fruit, meat, rabbit, calves, vegetables, dried fruit, oil, etc. Because the abuses and the increase in inequalities that can be lived with the one you have more and the one you have less, therefore, is also seen in those territories that you have more, in those territories that you have less, and in those farmers and branches that you have more or are large business groups respect the small producers. And we can't afford that. Therefore, we have an approved current regulation that allows us to impose sanctions when there is no effective competition, when there has been delay or when there is dumping to instill competition. And this is what we want the department to help small farmers and farmers, who are the ones with the most territorial deployment, who are the ones who believe the most occupation, the most stable, and, therefore, who are the worst they are going through. Retrieve the lost premise, around 40_percent of the past years; invest in promoting information and communication technologies, as we said, to have a competitive sector, which did not subsidize: competitiveness. Hunting alley. Jo, mine, huh? I said it before, they didn't accept me; this time, yes. To thank the Marisa that you have accepted me this thought. And, obviously, consumption of meat, beyond consumption of meat, no, no; promoting healthy habits through our Mediterranean diet, scientifically accredited as one of the diets that makes us have a life expectancy of the highest in the world. And in this consumption of Mediterranean diet, consumption of meat; quality meat in its just measure. And, therefore, let us not say that from then on it is not consumption of certain products, but what we have to say: consumption of quality products in a responsible way. Flexibility with white tongue; see the effects of the vaccine. Wildlife rescue: the control of wildlife rescue seems good to us. Proximity consumption, through the Proximity Selling Decree; I believe that in this sense it was already lying in this line. Pending payments; I think that yesterday we arrived, precisely, with the check of compliments because this proposal had already been approved..., and, therefore, to publish a schedule of pending payments, for which I congratulate the department, because I believe that, since I arrived here, it was one of the demands that we always made, and, in the end, we said: "Home, we are looking for the formula, aren't we? Therefore, we have updated part of the payments, for the best of the three-hour period, and then, in addition, we have presented a calendar of when we can do what remains to be done. Therefore, thanks to the PP for the proposal, to make a debate of agriculture in Parliament, to put on the table the pending assignments, to accept the papers, and also to aggravate, obviously, that they have been taken into consideration. And just one last sentence, to finish. To say them, counselor, deputies, deputies, as that song says..., says « we have so many things to do, and, as you say, « we have so little time to do them, that we should, above all, put ourselves there, dedicate the necessary resources to it, and the first opportunity we will have with the presupposition 2016. Thank you, MPs, MPs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.192.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.193.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... well, we managed to fix this young lady, which I also have to say when we got there we freaked out a little bit, for some points. I think, in the end, we've all been able to fix it. There are some points, quite enough, that we do not vote in favour. I thank Mrs. Xandri for all the points transactions we've been able to get. And why do some points not vote for it? Because in the background there is a very different model theme. We understand that the sector has to be defended, that the sector has to be defended, but in the models, when we talk about a model of industry – more than industry, which we no longer like, right? – from the industry of meat, from a lot of large barns, with a model that is very intense in the use of natural resources, which, moreover, can generate or sometimes has generated environmental outsourcings, which we know we have, that we have this problem..., we think we have to go to another model. Clearly, in the whole first package, we say, of the purins, for what it does to the waste pickers, so we can't agree, because our model is another. We believe, first...Clar, Mrs. Xandri, a little brown we have on the subject of discards sees on behalf of your government, when it made the ministerial order of 2014 that three pay parameters that donated to plants that treated purins and made biogas. So, one part will have to be fixed, we'll have to fix it, now when the new government comes. Let's hope he can fix it, 'cause he made us a fire. Well, apart from fixing the whole issue of electrical reform, it was a fiasco. But, of course, there is one issue: at some point, we will have to consider whether we can continue to increase, to increase, to increase the pig house in greek barns, which, moreover, the greek barns leave us here what it says, the purins, but not the benefits of added value, or whether we need to rationalise this pig house. Therefore, at all these points, we made various model papers, various papers, and we would not agree. For what it does to the subject of wildlife, here we have another problem. Of course, I used to say that, didn't I? We're with a 1970 law. Here's the whole subject of kinegetic control. A law that today does not adapt to reality and, therefore, we must see what we do with those plagues, not just rabbits: rabbits, cabirols, single pigs, American vision or inclusive... And if we're talking about the river, that's the other side of her young man, and that we don't agree with any of the points here either... Clearly, we have all the species of alloctones that are ending up with our native fauna: silurs, a type of carp, American Irisada trout, etc. So, here you have to look..., the group of just rural wildlife agents, to see how we pose..., what measures, not just hunting, but hunting control. And also, to see what we're doing with this kinegetic control law. For what he does to the theme of rius. For the sake of the issue of rivers, there was a draft decree that developed the continental fishing law. Well, he stayed in the dungeon. I think it's very important to develop it, because, besides, the same laws in 2012 entered some mechanisms, which we didn't agree with, in which it gave all the management of the fees to associations, to the clubs, and, a little, outsourced this management leaving the department, which is who has to be responsible for this, as they carry out their responsibilities. We think this has to change, and more so, when there have been irregularities. There's a pending debt, which one day will come out of these communities. See, Mrs. Xandri, I'd like you to understand. Asking that the law of biodiversity is changed to ask for this fishing without death can't be; or so, it can't be. It cannot be that, if we fish, if in the Aiguabarreig, if in Mequinensa, take silurs, it becomes alive, because they are not native, the silurs; the silurs come from Northern Europe, and if we have silurs we will not have native fauna. So it has to be dead fishing, because the allotons can't hold them in our rivers, or they'll end up with their own species. So, here, we were against it. An important thing that I appreciate is that I have approved this idea of being able to make a deal with Aragó and that, I have already said, I thank him because I think it is very important both for Noguera Ribagorçana and for Ebra, as in the area of Aaguabarreig, in that we need to establish a deal with Aragó, because the fishermen, when they get it, do not know if that part of the river is from Catalonia or is from Aragó. And therefore, it is necessary to unify criteria. We also believe that we will need to move forward with the issue of litigation and differences between these clubs and coastal fishermen, because the system, the taxation system, must be the same for everyone. And, therefore, this is an issue that will need to be addressed. Therefore, we will vote for some points, against others, but I believe that, among all of us, we have been able to improve this young man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.194.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr. Javier Rivas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.195.0	Madam President, councillor, deputies... good afternoon to you all. There are points of this motion on which we agree and others on which we cannot agree, but I would rather say that for a matter of form than substance. What I can say is that we have analysed and contributed everything we have been able to because, even if it is a drop of water in the ocean from the problem of the rural world, any action will always be welcome, right? The rural world has problems, serious problems; problems of viability, infrastructure, service, and a new and very serious one, which is the technological gap, access to the information society through broadband, which will become a very difficult problem in the twenty-first century, which we are already in. But the problem of the rural world and the mountain is not just a list of outstanding subjects, it goes far beyond that, is it not? The reflection, I think, is important: what is the model of territory we want. Fifty years ago, 50_percent of the population lived in the rural world; today 80_percent of the population is concentrated in 20_percent of the territory, basically in cities. The countryside and the mountain, on the other hand, are seeing themselves unpopulated, and it is no longer worrying just the figure, but what is more worrying is that this is a trend and that it has no face to change. The rural population is ageing, young people are migrating and the old villages will eventually disappear. The survival of traditional uses, peoples and their people goes through the viability of a model in difficulties that must be supported without any crack. But let's go to the detail of the motion. There are a number of points that call in various ways for the Administration to comply with its commitments, and in that we are logically totally in agreement; that the subsidy lines for modernization be accelerated and optimised, we are also fully in agreement; that extensive livestock farming be protected from bear harassment and the new species that can be implemented. In fact, the Life programme already envisaged it; another thing is whether we are managing it in a sufficiently appropriate way from the administrative point of view, not from the territorial point of view. Another issue is fishing licences. Fishing licenses are a bit curious and can be a bit of a warning to navigators of people who like to think small and think about putting fences in the field, right? What has become a problem, then, for people who love fishing, sports fishing, to go fishing to other places that are not exclusively Catalonia, right? It is proposed that agreements be made with other communities, and it seems to us to be the right thing to do. The price issue. In the matter of prices, we have to think more seriously, because the paupers don't sell at a price, they end up buying them at a price, don't they? Normally, prices are ruinous, and since there is awareness of it from the Administration, what is being done is to subsidize them. But the reflection, a little further and abstracting us, is to whom we are subsidizing, whether to the payers, properly, or to the big food lobby or the big surfaces, isn't it? The issue of not eating meat on Mondays. Well, this is older than walking; modern has absolutely nothing, my grandmother already did, what happens is that on Fridays, because it was what the Holy Mother Church commanded, right? I believe that we must campaign to promote fruit consumption, because we will get sectoral and health benefits, but we do not believe in new churches, let people think, let people decide and people live in freedom. In short, that mountain people, like me, or the countryside, want to continue living in Yellowstone Park, but not like the Yogi Bear. We aspire to be citizens with rights and obligations, and to maintain an ancient land that has to take root in the twenty-first century. A former Indian chief, Seattle – has a city in the United States – said that we have not inherited the land of our grandparents, that we actually borrow it from our grandchildren, right? And I think we should all work in that line, right? , so that in the mountain and in the rural area it fills all the Ark of Noah, including also all human beings. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.196.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Lord Albert Batalla, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.197.0	Thank you, President. He'll advise... Good afternoon to everyone. Well, obviously, thank you for the motion presented to you by Mrs Xandri, but with all the good work we've had for a long time, tell her that we've had a better feeling of a young woman in the perdigonade, haven't we? We take what is fashionable in the newspapers these days about which one way or another, so the sector can claim face to face with the department, and we build an inquiry and then a motion, and we turn it into a mini-monograph of agriculture that we need to clear up in five minutes and therefore make a superficial debate. It's still legitimate, but it seems to me to end up feeling a little practical for what interests the sector. In addition, there are two major types of proposals in the proposals that are put forward, most of them. There are proposals that the department is already pulling forward. For example, he managed it on the threat of the bad language; the department is already working on it. The promotion of fruit; obviously, the department is already working on it. The Pla d'Ajuts for Producers and Ramaders; it's already done. The job to solve the Purins crisis is already done. They're paying in terms of help; it's already done. Or the special beatings of rabbits or senglars that affect the conreus. All these are examples that are at your young lady's and that are already things that the department, at these times, is pulling forward. It's all better, no doubt, but there are things that the department is already doing. And, on the other hand, the second large group of proposals are things that need to be solved because before they were spread by the People's Party government to the state. For example, the theme of purins is a question that at this time the Generalitat is working intensely, but because there is a preliminary decision on the part of the State to kick it in an important way. The Purins crisis in Catalonia and other reasons of the State is for a clear decision of the People's Party government. Or, for example, the issue of fishing without the death of carp, carp and silurs. You already have, even, a little bit more wire, to hear us, don't you? because the People's Party Government passes legislation to the State and you here ask that the Parliament of Catalonia is in a position to correct the State in this legislation it has made. No problem, but it's a little weird, that's all. Therefore, things that are being done, things that need to be solved because before they have spread on the part of the Government of the State. Therefore, when we look at what the object of the motion is, there may be two objectives: one, to help the sector, which we do not deny, surely here there is a part of the will to help the sector; but the other is also to look for ammunition, because no one escapes that we are at the gates of an electoral campaign, and with all the good news, obviously we understand that this is a young person who has a point of opportunity. Finally, I wanted to comment on two or three concrete points of the motion, which I really think are significant and which the sector should know. On the subject of white language, please tell them clearly that the department, applying the criteria of prevention and safety, is implementing, together with the sector, the vaccination plan with good results; therefore, calmly for everyone, the sector is doing the work, the veterinarians are controlling it and the department, obviously, is there, basically to prevent and prevent this disease from spreading from France to our country. For what he does to the payments; the payments... as you know, May 17th came into this Parliament an answer on behalf of the council to all groups where there were clearly what payment schedules there were. And it is very clear that the first pillar, the payment of the CAP, is in the 95_per_cent paid and the remaining 5_per_cent will be made during this month of May; that the second pillar will be paid between June and July of the 16th, the majority of programs, and others that form part of multiannual lines, so when it corresponds, in the assumptions of each year that it corresponds, and for another band, some payments, it means that we are waiting for the State to make the relevant input to the department so that they can be directly subscribed to the branches and pages. And, for what it does to the water channel, which is one of the items that we have accepted from another of the parliamentary groups, simply tell them that the water channel for rameder farms will not be in the law of accompanying assumptions, and therefore it is an announcement that we can already make them, even though you surely know it, because if you have followed the current policy of these last few days, you must have seen that the government does not intend to present any variation in the assumptions from the tax point of view. Therefore, in any case, I believe that, with the considerations we have made, we have been able, among all – and I also appreciate, in this case, the good predisposition to agree with all the groups, and especially with the group proposing and Mrs. Marisa Xandri – we have been able to make a point more useful than expected, and, for another group, I insist, I think that these types of debates of so much perdigo are little useful if what we really want is to help the productive sector, the branching sector and the agricultural sector of our country; we cannot get rid of it in five minutes. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.198.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr Sergi Saladié, of the Parliamentary Group candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.199.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, another time. It has already been said: when we got this young man back, we didn't know how to hear her. It looked like you took the Secret or the Morning and started seeing all the territorial weights there was, and you went to make a list, didn't you? , to see all these problems without going to see if, really, then, they were on a solution path or not, or what was going on. So, of course, here we have found 'javalins, we have found rabbits, we have found fish, we have found everything. Clar, you say, "Fast, see, this is how we take it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Sure, that's it. I'll wait 't. [[The timer laughs.]] Clearly, then it's been hard for us to interpret, which is to say, what was he looking for, isn't it? And in order not to be ill thought and not to enter here either in a battle to attempt a question of connection between two positions, which ideologically we are very separate, so we have decided not to submit papers and to vote for what we think of each thing. Clearly, there are things of common sense, or rather sensible, that you say: "Ostres, it is difficult to vote against it. There are things that incorporate apparently contradictory aspects or there are cases that are blatantly contradictory, that, so, well, you don't know what to do, and you abstain. And there are questions, therefore, that we are voting directly against it. In fact, they are an important part, because we understand that, to the band of this joke that made the Secret and Tomorrow at the beginning, what this young man distills is a plan of continuity with a model with which we do not agree..., and that it is completely different from what you defended the People's Party. Basically because it's a model, this one that you plant here..., and it's not that you want to continue with this model, but you want to intensify it still by liberalizing more, or making larger barns, or allowing greater degrees of generation of residues from these barns, or any question that goes on the path of liberalisation of this natural environment, or the impact that agriculture and ramedry generates in this natural environment. And we are against it, I say, because it is a model that we understand to be contaminating, that is to say, just to see how we have the aquifers in the Principality of Catalonia; it is a model that precariously works, with a high temporality, so with all the collecting campaigns of the different fruits, especially in the Lleida area, and, ultimately, it generates a system of oligopolises, above all the distribution chains, and this ultimately involves a fraction of this model, which is its model, which is not ours. Yes; it's a model that we say is absolutely failed. And let's basically say... and not just because of these environmental issues, the contamination of aquifers, the other impacts it has on the work issue, but it's a failed model from the same model of benefits to these producers. In the case, for example, of sweet fruit, this fruit is being bought at 0,25_EUR per kilo, when the cost of production is 0,30; it is to say, the pages are receiving less quantities than the coast produces this fruit. And that's a flaw in the model, and that's his model. Therefore, this model must be reversed from one side to the next; therefore, our aim is to vote against all those questions which, from its point of view, favour this continuity of the model, this intensity of specialization in certain conreus, of large producer farms – especially in the case of Catalonia, a great problem that we have with the reason. Therefore, we defend a model of food sovereignty; currently in the Principality we are only sovereigns in a 30_percent of the food we need, the rest is entirely dedicated to export. This creates insecurity in the food system. I always set this example – here I have already told the Agriculture Commission once – of the transporter wave of the year 2008, which deplete the markets because of the price of oil, which was raised at that time, and for a week, fifteen days, they did not supply the food markets, and we saw, for the first time in history, a TV3 telenews featuring empty supermarket shelves. And then it lasted 15 days, and it didn't go any further. Clearly, if here we are not able to think that first we need to generate the food we need to eat and, from here, we can intensify, according to your model, or not so much, according to ours, so, these surpluses, we can market with them. But first we aim to guarantee this self-sufficiency model. And here there's still a deal, from your point of view. That is to say, the payment, surely, in this model that we plant will end up in short circuits, therefore, with a lesser environmental impact, with much fairer prices, both for the producer and for the consumer, for the user of these foods, and these meats, huh? 'Cause we're talking about junkyards, too. And, therefore, we will continue to bet this way. So, in those points of the motion that we seem to be doing is somehow repairing some of the difficulties that this sector has we will give support; in others that we seem to be able to point out some basis of model change or that they are neutral, we might say, and we seem to have the opportunity to vote for it, we will also vote for it; but in those that do intensify this polluting model, failed from their point of view – the pages are seeing it, that the fruit does not fade well – in those we will vote against it, because what we have to do is to give it all back, to this myth, to build a system that will first of all rise and then, with these surpluses, we have already decided that it is what we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.200.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, in order to pronounce on the papers, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.201.0	Thank you, President. Counselors... well, I take the criticisms of most parliamentary groups, but, well, I would like to thank all of you who have submitted papers and I believe that most of them, so we have been able to deal or have simply accepted, haven't we? In three minutes I think it's impossible... in two minutes I think it's impossible to explain which items have been approved, or not, to which transactions we have arrived, but I do want to show my satisfaction with what the first point was, right? , the result of the incorporation of Junts for the Yes, Ciutadans, PSC and Catalunya Yes it is Pot at this point. What he wanted to make clear was the support of the whole chamber or at least the majority of the producers of the meat sectors after seeing them as from the Barcelona Assembly, and on the initiative of the Republican Left of Catalonia, was in question with a very unfortunate proposal. Well, I'd like to tell Congressman Battle, wouldn't I? , and also to the Member Saladié..., to see, I believe that this young man is not the result of a perdigonate, nor of reading the Secret or Tomorrow, or perhaps yes, perhaps he has also gone out to the Secret or Tomorrow, but at the end and at the end there are questions that concern now, today– today– and, therefore, today; they are topical questions that concern the sector, and that I have obviously spoken to these sectors, right? So that I can deal with these issues, and from here, this young man. So, if you think she's a loser or an election act I'm doing here, then I'm saying no. As for the management of purins, Mr Batalla, whose competence is the management of purins? Can you tell me who's running it? What knowledge of the Government of Catalonia; therefore, it must be the Government of Catalonia that entomizes this question. So, I don't know, they make you look; don't you want so much independence? So, it started here. I'm finally growing up, aren't I? I think there's a good young lady left, and I hope she gets the most support, because, like I said, right? The ultimate goal is to facilitate the lives of our farmers and rowers, even though many of you doubt it, and enable fishermen to carry out this activity on the margins of political conditions, which are also there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.202.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Call it a vote. [[Sergi Saladié Gil asks to speak.]] Mr. Saladié. [[Pause and remorse of the voice.]] Mr. Saladié.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.203.0	Yes, we would ask for a separate vote from all points, directly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.204.0	Of all the points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.205.0	Yeah, because it's...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.206.0	I guess there's nothing more to ask then, huh? [[Voice remorse and pause.]] Mr Saladié, it is understood that "of all points means, no 1, 2, 3, but 1, 2.a, 2.b, 2.c, 2.d? I'm asking.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.207.0	I could simplify it. But, well... then there are other groups that I guess they'll want more points, and, I mean, they're asking for it all right now, and that's... but, I'm saying my thing?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.208.0	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.209.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.210.0	Yeah, yeah. Home, if we can simplify it, simplify it, but we all vote separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.211.0	All right, all right. Come on, then. Okay. Vote separate from '1...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.212.0	One moment... - One moment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.213.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.214.0	We will. Go on, one.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.215.0	Okay, one in the second...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.216.0	Second...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.217.0	... 2.g...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.218.0	... 2.g...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.219.0	... 2.h...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.220.0	... 2.h...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.221.0	... 2.j...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.222.0	... 2.j...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.223.0	... 2.k...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.224.0	... 2.k...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.225.0	... 2.l...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.226.0	... 2.l...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.227.0	... 2.n...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.228.0	... 2.n... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.229.0	...second...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.230.0	...second...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.231.0	... 2.b, 2.c...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.232.0	... 2.b, 2.c... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.233.0	... 4, 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.234.0	... 4, 7 and 8. [[Hortênsia Grau Juan asks to speak.]] Miss..., Miss Grau... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.235.0	All of them? I also have to ask for a separate vote from some...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.236.0	So maybe we'll vote for it all separately. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Maybe we vote for it all separately, because I already see... – I see – no? [[Pause.]] So, som-hi... – som-hi, som-hi. Let's start by voting point one. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes to none, with 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 2.a. The vote begins. It was rejected by 46 votes to 86, with 0 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on 2.b. The vote begins. It was rejected by 35 votes to 97, with 0 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on 2.c. The vote begins. It was approved by 111 votes to 11, with 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on 2.d. The vote begins. It was rejected by 34 votes to 81, with 16 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the 2nd. The vote begins. It was rejected by 26 votes in favour, 106 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on 2.f. The vote begins. It was rejected by 50 votes to 70, with 11 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on 2.g. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote on 2:00. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on 2:00. The vote begins. It was approved by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on 2.k. The vote begins. It was approved by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 2nd. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] She – she –, yes, from Lleida. The vote begins. It was rejected by 46 votes to 76, with 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on 2:00. The vote begins. It was approved by 86 votes in favour, 46 against. Next, we'll vote on the 2nd. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Wow, 2nd. It was approved by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the 2nd. The vote begins. It was approved by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we will vote on point 3... – point 3. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] Wait a minute, don't... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] What? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'll stop the vote... – I'll stop the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah! Yes, he had given me illusions, forgive me. Yeah, yeah, we have to vote separately, too, yeah. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes... So, we'll vote on the third. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes..., the third. The vote begins. It was rejected by 50 votes in favour, 82 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on 3.b. The vote begins. It was approved by 61 votes in favour, against and 71 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on 3.c. The vote begins. It was rejected by 14 votes to 81, with 37 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point four. The vote begins. It was rejected by 50 votes in favour, 61 against and 20 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 5. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, the 5..., the 5 goes together – the 5 point. The vote begins. It was approved by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 6. The vote begins. It was approved by 111 votes to 18, with 1 abstention. Next, we'll vote on point 7. The vote begins. It was approved by 71 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. And then we'll vote on point 8. The vote begins. It was approved by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. The next point of the order of the day... [[Hortênsia Grau Juan asks to speak.]] Mrs. Grau...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.237.0	You ask for the word for contradictions, because I think there's been a problem..., a mistake with the votes. At that point, when Juntes' representative for the Yes was at the Faristol, he was saying the damage that meant approving what we had just approved. What we have approved is that there is fishing without the death of native species, it is to say that they throw back into the river the carps, the carps and the whistles, just in the contrary sense of what the Lord Battle has explained. So, I just want you to be aware of what this Parliament has approved, so I'm just saying that one day they're going to take a bath in the river and a chair and they're moving something. [[Strong laughs.]] Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.238.0	Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, Mrs. Rovira... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Battle, you've forgiven.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.239.0	Yeah. I understand that the votes have to be explained in the Faristol, and we have explained the contradiction that assumed that the People's Party carried here something that sprang up in Madrid and asked the Parliament to ask Madrid to correct it. [[Widow's remorse.]] That was the explanation we made to the Faristol. Any other interpretation – and I no longer, obviously, enter the mossegades – forms part of what Mrs. Hortênsia Grau has heard.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.240.0	Okay. The vote is correct, then.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.241.0	The vote is correct, obviously.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.242.0	Okay. [[Widow's remorse.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the judicialization of politics]] [[302-00043/11]] Let's get to the next point of the order of the day. The twenty-one point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the question to the Government on the judicialization of politics, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. To expose her, Mr. Roger Torrent has the word. [[Widow's remorse.]] And, as always, I pray you, Members and Members, who leave quickly and quietly to continue the session. [[Pause.]] Thank you; when you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.243.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies..., well, this motion goes from the dignity..., from the dignity of this Parliament as, obviously, legislative chamber, as, above all, chamber of representatives and, therefore, as chamber representing the popular will of the people of Catalonia. This young man, therefore, has to defend the dignity of this Parliament, to defend its ability to decide – it is to say, its ability to legislate –; he has, in short, to defend the citizens of Catalonia through these 135 escons representing this chamber. But it goes, also, above all, of the dignity of people, of the dignity of the citizens of this country, because, to the capdavall, what we do in this Parliament, what we do to these Members and Members is to build tools, is to make instruments to help the people of this country. So, that's why this young man, of the dignity of the people of this country, also went. That is why we defended the sovereignty of this Parliament, and we defended it in a layer and space. With this young man we defended the dignity and sovereignty of this Parliament. Sobriania, among other things, to protect people, because they don't do them outside their homes, because they don't disown them; sovereignty to prevent them from carving the light or cutting the sub-administrations in full winter; sovereignty, too, to be able to tax empty floors; sovereignty, too, for example, to be able to tax those who contaminate with green taxes, and sovereignty, also – and this is already almost paradoxical – to defend equality between men and women. Sobirania, therefore, to defend the people of this country. That is why we want sovereignty, that is why we want the sovereignty of this Parliament: to protect, to defend, to help the people of our country. And that's why we want it full, the sobriety. And maybe that's why, in fact, what this claim represents, for example, the stellate, they forbid it to the football camp. As if this, the sobriety, what we defend here, you have to see with flags. You don't have to see with flags, you don't have to see with flags that you teach, that you show, that you're defending in a football field, in any public space; you have to see to help our people, the sovereignty of this Parliament has to see to help our fellow citizens. That is why, today, we are defending that the State will never again use the courts, re-serve the courts, re-serve the Constitutional Court, precisely, to go against all these instruments that we are creating in this Parliament. Fent-ho, going against the laws we pass here, does not go against this Parliament, does not go against the Catalan institutions; it goes against its people, it goes against the people of this country. Each and every one of the times the laws that all of you, which all of us approve, are not just the task, the work that we do here, are the rights of the citizens and the citizens of this country. And we're tired, we're tired of one time after the other, the state government through the courts trying to solve questions that are strictly political, through the courts, through the courts, through the courts. That is why, with this young man, let's say enough, that we are tired, that what we are defending here, that what we are defending, until now and above all from now on, is the sovereignty of this Parliament as an expression of the popular will of this people. Therefore, what we do with this young man is defend the work that we do to these Members. And you, all 135 Members and Members, if you want to defend the work they do, if you really think that they are representatives of the people of Catalonia and, above all, if you want to defend the social rights that, from little to little, we are conquering with the laws that we approve in this Parliament, you must vote for this young man. Because this young man, I insist, is the defense of the sovereign, is the defense of the citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.244.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] Next, to defend the papers presented, has the words of Mr Benet Salellas, of the Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.245.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. We agree with the motion, we agree with the criticism that is obviously made to the Constitutional Court. In fact, a campaign that we have done in the past, our campaign« Without, that of the sicicle-colored samaretes, started, precisely, between other themes, from this position, right? Now, I do want to justify, in a way, the setting up of our task, because we were hoping to go a little further than the hope that we would assume that the young man has the job, and that, well, in view of the discussions presented by other groups, so we think it's a little different from what the central axis should be, don't we? , and it is that it focuses exclusively on the government of the PP and in whom it is found or not in the central government of Madrid. It is true that the PP government is a standard of authoritarianism and demophobia, but we think that this court is made up of eleven people, at these times, of eleven magistrates who have been selected for the joint political groups. And so, this door, from the beginning, to two initial conclusions. First, the responsibility for what happens to the Constitutional Court is of all the parties of 78; one. And, two, the responsibility is also of the eleven people who occupy their place at these times as judges of the Constitutional Court. I mean, somehow, it's not just the fault of the PP and the Madrid government, but these eleven magistrates have accepted the role that this central government has called for. It is these eleven magistrates who have dug a trench against the sovereignty of Catalonia, because it is these eleven magistrates who sign the sentences and interlocutors they cancel and suspend laws of this Parliament. Or is it that these magistrates and magistrates couldn't dictate other sentences? Or could they not dictate some other resolutions and raise the suspensions they initially granted? Therefore, we ask, in a way, for a certain honesty to all pleas and that we identify all those responsible for this situation. It is to say, either these magistrates are the titular ones of a government – and therefore they do not deserve the qualification of magistrates – or it is that they are the mere solution of continuity of the table of the Council of Ministers of each divender and then they are not court of justice. But, look how you look at it, there are eleven people, eleven responsible for what some of us have already started calling this authoritarian state of law that every week attacks the sovereignty of this Parliament. Therefore, there is responsibility, also of Francisco Pérez de los Cobos, of Adela Asúa, of Encarna Roca, of Andrés Ollero, of Fernando Valdés, of Juan José González, Santiago Martínez Vares, Juan Antonio Xiol, Pedro José González-Trevijano, Ricardo Enríquez i Antonio Narváez. Because it's not a matter of who rules or who doesn't rule in Madrid, it's a matter of state structure. It's a matter of empire structure, colonial mentality, more or less defunct authoritarian structure, because this is the history of the Spanish State and the Kingdom of Spain. These days, with Law 24/15, many people have remembered another historical fact relatively far, but it somehow demonstrates the Spanish imperial continuity. And that's what passed the year 34 with the Bill, with the Law of Contracts drawn up for the Government Companies, approved for this Parliament to protect the interests of the page and fallen for the Constitutional Guarantee Court. How did this Parliament of Catalonia react, then? So, back to approving that contract law and reaffirming the sovereignty and dignity of this Parliament. I hope we're on high, too, time to defend 24/15. And I think that marks us, somehow, that we have to leave a certain victimistic speech, a certain crying speech and face this ardent constitutional court, but firmly convinced of which is our position. The problem, therefore, is not who rules in Madrid, because, I repeat, in this Constitutional Court there are magistrates chosen for the PP, but there are magistrates chosen for the PSOE, and even there is a magistrate chosen for Convergence and Union. The problem is the Kingdom of Spain and its anti-democratic character, because its imperialism forms part of its DNA, it is said Constitutional Court, it is said Moncloa, it is said as it is said. Therefore, before the Constitutional Court there is only one possible position: disobedience and walking without, without fulfilling its mandates, as the 9-N declaration says, a statement that we claim at every moment, that we understand in force and that we hope that all those who voted for it will, therefore, also defend it. I will end the words with which the Mayor of Berga was closing the campaign of "Sense por, a few days ago, no? a few verses from Margarit that say, "Freedom is a strange journey. / The words Republic i Civil. / A king leaving by train to exile. Freedom is a bookstore. / Undocumented anar. Freedom is a form of love... freedom. So, from the moment of freedom, let's tell the Constitutional Court the only thing we have to say to it: that we are free, that we are sovereign and that no court will intervene in our way. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.246.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Inés Arrimadas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.247.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Junts pel Yes, you are presenting a motion entitled 'the judicialisation of politics and which really refers to a situation that exists and that citizens see every day on television and on radio, and it is the permanent conflict between the Government of Catalonia and the Government of Spain. And it is true, and it is so, because everyone has the feeling that you speak more in court with the Government of Spain, than by telephone or in offices, which really affects not the Government of Spain, not the Government of Catalonia, but the citizens who every day suffer the consequences of two administrations forced to understand themselves but voluntarily that they do not even dare to talk to each other. And we, of course, will be able to defend ourselves as regulations that have been adopted in this Parliament can be defended politically and legally when we believe that they can be applied not only in Catalonia but in Spain as a whole, but in what you will never find us it is to use this judicialization of politics, as you do, as a perfect strategy to cover up your management problems, your lack of social sensitivity or your absolute dedication to declaring independence and nothing else. Because it is really outrageous–indignant– that you use people's pain, the pain of not being able to pay for the light at the end of the month, the pain of not having a decent home, to cover up your management problems. Because you are referring to something that is true, and it is true that the Constitutional Court has suspended various articles of important laws, such as that of energy poverty or that of housing, but what you do not say is that many of the things that have not been suspended, the Government of the Generalitat has not carried them out because it simply did not want to devote itself to it. For example, there is no constitutional court that has prevented you from spending a hundred_per_cent of the aid fund for people who could not afford electricity and water. You have spent only 20_per_cent. Why? Management problems, they bring. There is no court that forces you not to spend an 80_per_cent of the resources for what really matters, which is for people in need. Another example: there is no constitutional court that has prevented you from signing the agreements between the Government of the Generalitat and the entities supplying light and water. There is no constitutional court that has prevented it, and you have not. Why? Because they prefer, as everyone knows, to devote their money and their working time to creating these state structures for this wonderful country where there will be no problem. But that is a tremendous mistake and a tremendous irresponsibility, and we can also share certain criticisms, because we do not share the Government of Spain is in many cases unregulated at national level and then do not let the autonomous communities regulate what they put in place. It is a mistake, it is a mistake that affects people, and we also do not agree that the Constitutional Court is a body that is obviously politicized. And here I will coincide with the spokesman of the CUPs – there is nothing to coincide with you at any time –: there can be no complaint about the convergence of the politicization of the Constitutional Court when it favored and benefited the whole democracy from this politicization of the Constitutional Court. What has Convergence done in the Congress of Deputies to depoliticize the Constitutional Court? What, that the sentences signed by the judge fingered by Convergence are worth less than the sentences signed by other judges fingered by other parties? We cannot use people's pain to cover up what has been a politicization of justice consented, promoted and maintained also by parties that make up the Government of the Generalitat today. We, what do we bet? We bet to change the government of Spain, to have, at last, a government of Spain that knows how to do politics and that comes out at once, let's say, to try to solve all the problems in the courts; a government of Spain that has more social sensitivity; a government of Spain that dialogues with the autonomous communities; a government of Spain that reformes this country from the top down. But we also bet to change the government of the Generalitat. A government of the Generalitat that does not have as an excuse the « Evil Spain, the « Spain steals us; a government that assumes its competences, that are many and that are very important, and a government that presents real solutions. We have presented, for example, two proposals for legislation on energy poverty and measures to encourage social rent, which are within the legal framework and which can respond, as is being done in other autonomous communities, to social needs. It seems to us that there is a lot of scope in Catalonia to protect disadvantaged people, and we will continue to do so, with the change in the Government of Spain and the change in the Government of the Generalitat. Because what we're not going to do is what you do: the strategy of victimism, the strategy of the whole thing is worth it, the excuse for everything, and the strategy of using people who have a bad time to cover up their own shames. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.248.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.249.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... well, a lot of things have been said in the public debate and also this late, around the heart of the judicialization of politics. And it is known, moreover, that the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, has lamented, not only now, in the later years that this phenomenon has intensified, perhaps, but has lamented whenever they claim to resolve questions that should be resolved in the political sphere and in the dialogue between administrations and governments through the judicial process. Even so, we have presented some ideas that the Group of Joints for the Yes has decided not to take on, nor to negotiate, in that we have basically found the existence of a few shortcomings of the central government that is translated into a challenging embodiment for a series of norms with legal rank, which therefore emanate, to the autonomous parliaments and very specifically to the Parliament of Catalonia. And we did it in terms that we consider more objective than those contained in the report on the first two points, basically, of his young lady. We refuse to buy a report, to adhere to a certain report, which is necessarily partial. Because you alone and exclusively raise responsibility, I would not say so much about the Government as about the Constitutional Court, in the situation in which we find ourselves. And we, as well as many of the standards, the laws to which it refers here, and we have given support and which we consider to be questionable in many respects the decision made by the Constitutional Court, which we also note is that there has been a long time ago in this chamber – and on the part of some parliamentary groups and some political parties – a strategy of lawlessness that is not just, let us say, seeking a certain dynamic of action and reaction, from the point of view of political and social reactions, but, on many occasions, that happens. Mirin, when you say that you have already disconnected..., some say to the Spanish State we no longer ask for anything, surely there is no government except to thank you for not asking anything; but others also say: "No, it is that, moreover, we here legislate as if we were already a full state will rise and, therefore, we draw for the right and for the laws that we do, sometimes, there are things that we know that, at least, will be questionable from the point of view of the competitions. We have some example in the previous legislature, such as, for example, the Law of Consultations, but go... Therefore, the report is partial. What we are doing is voting in favour of the third point, which we understand is that, moreover, with the thought that has been assumed of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, therefore, it remains more complete, and claims, moreover, the Law of the Right to Housing 2007, which seems to me very good, because some responsibility we also held there. We'll abstain at point 4, because there's also all this rhetoric, let's just say, in a bravado, that it ended with the last of the points that have included in the deal with the CUP, right? So, frankly, it's a bravado. Mirin, we are concerned – we are concerned – that we are in such serious issues as those that we are dealing with, with such urgent needs, with so many people waiting for our solutions..., we are concerned that we can make use of up to a certain point in these questions that, in the end, in many of the issues that may be suspected by decisions of the Constitutional Court, would depend solely and exclusively on the political will of the Government to want to do what, for example, many municipalities are doing and what is not done. And last but not least, since we're quoting some of the past, the law of conreu contracts was brought before the constitutional organ of the Republic for the League and the Catalan circle of Sant Isidre, it's to say that the question of imperial mentality in that case did not play, and, in any case, we hope that we remember those times not to reproduce many of the mistakes that were made at that time, because from the very beginning we would want this to end as it ended there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.250.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word Albano Dante Fachin, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.251.0	Thank you, President. Today, together for the Yes, he presents us with a motion on the judicialization of politics, which is a critical motion with "the People's Party – and this is how it is written – "uses the Constitutional Court to drop the girls for this Parliament. And we share that concern, because it's a very serious issue, but just because it's a very serious issue, it's a serious one. We agree with what is said in this young man, not with all his points, but we agree; but with what we disagree with, because it is a very serious debate, it is that it is used propagandistically for Junts for the Yes this situation: a propagandistic use that in the end could be summed up in: "Together for the Yes he wants to defend his people, but Spain does not allow it. But here there is a little bit of information missing, in this propaganda, because, in the first place, I want to remember, as was previously remembered, that the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, which is an important part of Junts for the Yes, has been an indispensable actor in the construction of this judicial state. I, at last, name jutges. Secondly, Juntes pour el Si presents a motion to protect the sovereignty of this Parliament, while half of its members collect the TTIP, which is the attack on the sovereignty of this Parliament larger than the Franco dictatorship. And that's it. And lastly, I would like to recall, in case anyone has a short memory, that yesterday who fell the sovereignty of 95,000 people who mobilized in this country..., was not the Constitutional Court, was together for the Yes with the help of the People's Party, in case someone had forgotten. And, despite this, Juntes' propaganda for the Yes, when we leave here, is: "The only way to protect the citizens we have is to leave Spain. But, of course, as we say, the problem is very difficult and we need to act quickly. And, of course, it's like you don't agree on how to get out of Spain, because that sort of split, it seems to me that there's no one left here yet to believe it, so we have to give some alternative. And that's why we've presented a number of papers, but I want to highlight two. One that has been accepted, and that is: this Parliament can put its hands on the work itself now. I cannot expect permission from Espanya or the Constitutional Court to enforce the 2007 Housing Law, nor do I expect the Constitutional Court to serve the remaining part of the Law 24/2015, and therefore I am grateful that you have accepted this policy. Then, there is another, which for us was also very important, which you did not accept, and you did not accept a fact that many times remains appalled by the propaganda, because it is true that the People's Party makes use of the Constitutional Court against the sorghum laws of this Parliament, but it also acts against the sorghum laws of other autonomous parliaments. The Constitutional Court suspended the Catalan law against fracking, but it also acted against laws similar to Cantàbria, La Rioja, Balears... It is true that the Constitutional Court attacks the Law 24/2015, but it also attacks the anti-denomination law of Andalusia, and it is also true that the Constitutional Court attacks laws against autonomy, and I think it is important to remember this, because while some want to sell this case as if it were a Spanish battle against Catalonia, we know that we are ahead of a battle of the People's Party against the popular classes: the Catalan popular classes, the popular classes of La Rioja, Balears and Andalusia. And that is why our second question asked the Government of the Generality to work to coordinate with the rest of the autonomous parliaments that suffer from this very justice that you say you want to denounce: to make a common front – to make a common front – to defend what you say you want to defend this young man. And the answer was no. I don't know if it's too autonomous to seek – to seek – complicity and building alliances to fight injustice, because, if you don't accept this, in reality what we're doing is profiting, engaging in confrontation and propaganda. Catalonia and its popular classes have historically been an engine of change in the State and within Europe; we can sort, as in Parliament, retreat, or we can fight together with the rest of the people of the State. It did not turn that way – and I finish – it is a shame that Together for the Yes has sorted out the first option, because it renounces some alliances that, doubtless, are also indispensable because this Parliament has a full sovereignty. It wasn't like that, and we're sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.252.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word "Mrs. Andrea Levy", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.253.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Torrent: State Fund for Employment and Local Sustainability; Sustainable Economy Act; Urgent measures to ensure the sustainability of the national health system and improve the quality of safety of its services; General State budgets 2012-2013; Measures to support entrepreneurs and stimulate job creation; Measures for rehabilitation and regeneration and urban renewals; Improving the functioning of the food chain; Promoting the integration of cooperatives and agri-food associations; Protection of part-time workers and other urgent economic measures; Prevention of labour risks; Ensuring market unity; Urgent measures for growth, competitiveness and efficiency; Operation of new public services; Rationalization of public service and other measures; Protection of food quality; Equine health plan; Carbon fund; Air quality; Environmental promotion plan... So up to fifty_and_two – up to fifty_and_two. These are the laws invoked by the Government of the Generalitat. Twenty-eight, the Government of Spain has appealed. I therefore understand that if you do not want to judicialize the policy, you will vote against this motion, bearing in mind that the Government of the Generalitat has appealed almost twice to the Constitutional Court laws that it considers should be appealed. Because that's, and those are, the rules of the game. Because you know what's going on? , that it is not arbitrary who does not give him the reason, what is arbitrary is to think if one is always right, whether it is true or not. And I agree with you – I agree with you – that we are tired. Look, you don't know how tired we are; how tired we are of your knucklehead; how tired we are that you always come here to complain, that you always come here with victimism, that you always come here to say that poor Catalans that we have no measures and that we have no way of exercising our self-government. Yes, they do, of course they had measures to prevent people at risk from cutting off their light, not getting cold. Of course they had measures. But it is that you practice one thing, which is the abandonment of functions and vagrancy, because if you were to exercise your functions – if you were to exercise your functions – because surely measures taken, which could have taken, in the fund character of social services, could have been attended to that social emergency. What happens is that you prefer a lot more to complain about yourself, complain about yourself and complain about yourself because you have learned to do politics with the management of feelings, you have learned to do politics with the account of victimism, and so you do not account for your management. Because they have learned that the best in politics..., it is much easier to carry out a passionate account than not to account for results by the management of your government. And look, I agree with one thing: in the autonomous state we certainly need to improve a lot, and at the competitive level, a lot, because it is true that the Constitution of 78 could not foresee the level of competences that would be achieved, that would be accepted by the autonomous communities. And many things need to be reviewed, especially in the area of social services – especially – and especially in the funding model, to ensure that these competences can be effectively implemented; I agree. But, of course, the best way to do it is not to criticize, the best way to do it is not to say how bad those of the Government of Spain are. Because the Council of State Guarantees, is it also a politicized body? I don't know, I'm saying maybe he's choosing another way. But of course, it's that you..., the problem is that you always want to be right about everything, and when you don't have it, then you start waving the flag and the feeling. And, look, I don't have much time left. Mr. Salellas – for once I can talk after you, you're going to let me – I don't know, I guess you and I are from different tribes. I don't know, I go down the street and they don't beat me; I go down the street and they let me breathe; and I don't know, in my house they let me eat dessert, I don't know in theirs. Among other things, because if we were what you say: an empire, a colony or a dictatorship, neither you nor I would be here. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.254.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, Mr. Roger Torrent has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.255.0	Thank you again, President. You've got noses that follow who I'm talking about vacation – you've got noses. When they announced that on the part of the PP who is in a position to respect the motion was the lady Levy I thought: "Look, now we will listen to the deputy of Parliament defend, effectively, the pocket of Parliament; talk about what we approve of Parliament, of the debates we have here, of which we want to settle here. And I was surprised – I was surprised – because it came out..., the delegate of the government of the state [[relays]] The representative of the Government of the State has come out to defend everything that the Government of the State has done, and I for you would not be far behind, and less here, from all... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Hope's, lady Levy, hope's, now it's my turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.256.0	Please... - Please... - Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.257.0	I didn't betray, Mrs. Levy, any and all of the re-centralisation exercises that your state government has done. And if the Government of the Generality is a defense, precisely, to defend its powers and to defend that this re-centralisation does not mean to undersell the sovereignty of this Parliament. For what he does to the exams, well, there are many exams that we can't accept, and we can't accept them because they're sure there's a good faith, but it seems to us that it's an outdated stage, that where they involve, what we can read at the exams, whether more explicitly or implicitly, it's an outdated stage. To think that this is only the fault of the PP government is not to take into account all the previous decades in which we have systematically stumbled against the Constitutional Court and against the institutions of the State. Listen to me, if we're where we are, and we're here and today we're defending what we're defending, it's precisely because we know that this is not a conjunctural issue of a government, but it's a structural issue of the Government of the Spanish State, it's a structural issue of the same State, and we're convinced that the only way to overcome it is precisely having it right. But it's good that there are other issues, it's good that we're talking about changing governments in the Spanish State, but they'll let us not participate because we're in another phase. I just talked about the exams. We've obviously accepted one of Catalonia's reviews Yes, it's Pot and we've made a deal with the CUP group. And I end up insisting on what I said before: if it's about defending the sovereignty and the work that you all do in this Parliament, what you should vote for is affirmatively this young man. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.258.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.259.0	To ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.260.0	What's the point?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.261.0	Third and fourth points, but also separated between them. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.262.0	Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.263.0	If possible, ask for a separate vote on the two paragraphs of point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.264.0	[[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's what Mr. Roger Torrent has to decide, who has...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.265.0	Yes; that, if it is possible, ask for a separate vote from the two paragraphs of point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.266.0	Now. Yes, President. I don't know if I'm close to deciding it or not, but it seems to me that this would be a precedent that we can go extrapolating to other motions; if we go voting by paragraphs, we'd be voting and we'd be a lot more hours than our partner Oriol Amat was giving this morning. Therefore, it seems to us that it is not appropriate to vote by paragraphs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.267.0	Okay. Mr. Carrizosa, no. [[Albano Dante Fachin Pozzi asks to speak.]] Mr. Albano Dante Fachin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.268.0	The vote is required, separate from point 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.269.0	Five? We have been asked to vote separately from points 3, 4 and 5. Right? [[Pause.]] So, we'll start by voting points 3, 4 and 5, and then we'll vote the rest, huh? First, let's start by voting point number three. The vote begins. It was approved by 98 votes to 9, with 25 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number four. The vote begins. It was approved by 82 votes to 34, with 16 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number five. The vote begins. It was approved by 71 votes to 50, with 11 abstentions. Next, we vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. It was adopted by 82 votes to 50, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the government's debt]] [[302-00044/11]] The twenty-two point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the debt of the Generality, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant. [[Widow's remorse.]] And you know, the one who always asks you, get out quickly and quietly, please, because we can continue with the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.270.0	Good afternoon, thank you, President. We're all just a little tired and tired. Today you could start perfectly saying: we come to present a proposal to ask for an audit of the generality's debt. We want to make it clear, first of all, that the concept of the audit of the debt has been promoted and is the property of the social movements of good part of the countries affected by the debt; that it is a social movement that demands transparency in this information and, therefore, a follow-up and analysis of the debt on the part of the citizenry and on the part of the social movements. This was said here in April 2013 for our company Quim Arrufat; the April 2013 was not approved. Today, three years later, it seems that we finally have and see what the nerve ball of the debt represents, which represents working for transparency and the need to deal with this debt, from where and from where, in the background, it comes, also, in detail, and from where this advice is provided in the shadow, the advice of the debt in the shadow. But, in the background, there is a word that causes terror in this Parliament, which is the 'illegal' word. This word has been found that everyone generates it so that I can remove it from the dictionary, it seems. But don't let us go to the social movements of the southern countries, of the impoverished countries, to see or to find this word. We can go to the report of the expert from the United Nations on the consequences of external debt and international financial obligations of the States for the full enjoyment of human rights, especially economic, social and cultural rights. This report – which can be found perfectly, I recommend that the legislation – is a report that backs up the different definitions that have been drawn up over time on illegitimate debt, and that, in the background, what you see is that you need to address what is the legitimacy of a debt, and that to address it you need to take into account the activities to be financed, the negotiation of the loan, the terms of the contract and the authorisation of the loan in accordance with the contractual provisions. This is what a citizen and popular audit of the debt has to do, and let's hope you do, here in Catalonia. Therefore, we do not have so many words because they are neither new nor invented by the anti-capitalists with the demons of the CUP, nor come from tribes, Catalans or the south, they are words that come from the United Nations, from an organism that has often been criticized for all of us, but that everyone here takes advantage of it when they are interested. Therefore, if you take the reference for many of the things that have been discussed here, in this case we should also take it as the reference. And then I'll answer many of the questions. It is obvious that we ourselves, who criticized the lençol motions, before the complexity of what the debt system is, its consequences and how to approach it, have ended up generating a lençol motion. But we think it is necessary to be able to address all these points, so that you are clear, too, about the position of Parliament and what we call the Government of the Generality. And, to finish this first intervention, too, as we speak of the debt, of the civic auditorium of the debt, I would like to recover the words of a referent of the social movements that at the length of the years, and of the history of these past twenty years, they have claimed the audits of the debt, they have claimed to settle responsibilities. And a referent who here, also three years ago, was placed on the table and who, unfortunately, the student councillor of Economy did not deal excessively well, I refer to Thomas Sankara, president of Burkina Faso, murdered year 87. And in a speech before the United Nations – just before he was murdered – he said: "These creditors were advised, recommended, submitted to us fantasistic financing files, we were in debt for fifty, sixty years and even more. That is to say, they have led us to compromise our peoples for fifty years or more. Exactly the same as here. So, today, if we approve of pushing and working on a citizen audit of the debt, we can be happy, and I mean we're still moving forward to resolve responsibilities and be able to let the debt fall apart. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.271.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.272.0	Thank you, Madam President. The first thing I want to do is sincerely thank the CUP Group - It is a call to bring us to this plenary debate, a debate on the debt which, I would say, is the most important economic and political issue that this country has and that all the countries have, at least on a good part of the southern Mediterranean. That it is so transcendent to manifest the data that appears– 72,000_million of debt, 81,000 will be at the end of the year, of which, in addition, 51,000 have as creditor the Spanish State– and to manifest the fact that in these past weeks the most important activity of the Vice President of the Catalan Government is the whole negotiation process with Mr De Guindos, which must be significant of this import. It's, in this sense, that we appreciate it and want to value it. I have to tell you, and I have already told Eulàlia Reguant, that in the first reading of her motion we had some doubts, because, above all, after all, said to her with more absolute prudence, it seemed to us that at the beginning of the analysis that was made around the causes of the origin of the debt was, in some way, an ideologically weak analysis, because it is true that one important cause is the brutal situation that we have in relation to the Spanish State, but this is not the only cause, because, if that was the case, we would be the only country that has a debt accumulated with what we have, and it is not this. We have hard problems, and I think it's very important that we analyze the origin and causes of this debt, because it's very likely the most important debate of all the 21st century, in Europe, at least. There are very clear causes: an absolutely deadly, insufficient tax system, which, moreover, has been built in many cases since the complicity of Catalonia's economic and political elites; policies of instability, poorly named "stabilisation", which in the European Union have been voted for by the three great groups – popular, socialist and liberal; that in the Spanish State they are voted for the PP and Convergence and Union, and that in Catalonia they have been developed for the government Mas for a long time. And I think it's opportune to make it clear, because they only see it as a means of giving him answers in this sense. That's why – that's why – a part of our reviews are aptly addressed in this sense. And the other, in which our opinion was that the young man who was raised was a little ambitious, that I think has been resolved with the themes that have been raised, is the issue of not only not addressing the issue of the audience. I believe that the audience has a value for itself, is clear; the fact of the audience has a concept behind it, which, in short, is the exercise of civic sovereignty before a barbarity like that which is subtending the peoples of many countries of the world, the brutal pessimism of the public debt. But something else has to be done, and this more is what we wanted to present with our concern: we need to go clearly to face a process of restructuring these debts that clearly incorporates elements of removal from this debt and elements of default from this debt. There's no other solution. And we don't say it; people say it about all the ideologies right now. All the financial crises of this nature – all of them, all of them – have always been resolved with an agreement between creditors and debtors that has meant an important discharge of the debt. Because there's no way to pay for this, there's no way, except we don't condemn ourselves, and all the Catalan people, and the Spanish people, and the Greek people, and the Italian people, and many others, to be working for five decades with the purpose of speaking and prioritizing to pay for the interests of this debt. I think it would be good for this Parliament to become aware of this issue. We need to be able to generate a powerful citizen and political movement that places the subject of restructuring and the debate on the significant discharge of these debts as a major objective, one could enter the concept of certain illegitimate debts from this point of view. The sooner they do it, the sooner they stop kicking. I know it's a relatively complicated thing, but it has to be generated in this environment, it has to be generated in this block, because, besides, we have to do it in Catalonia, it has to be done at the level of the Spanish State, and the sense of doubt in the European mark is absolutely important. It is this sense of purpose of our discussions, which modestly tried to complement and, in our understanding, improve the motion originally presented for the CUP - Constituent Creed. And it's in this sense that I want to thank Eulalia for her effort and sensitivity at the time of accepting these aspects of ours. I do not know at these moments what the Group of Joints for the Yes will do around such an important issue as is the issue of restructuring with ease and pain. I demand that they be incorporated, because between unilateral disconnection, on one side, and the negotiation, all day long, of the submission with Mr. De Guindos, we may find a balance, and this balance is what we propose to them: restructuring, removal and default of the debt; it's the only solution not to slave the own generations only to the service of creditors. I hope they pay attention to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.273.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.274.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. So, in the first place, we would also like to thank the CUP and the Member of Parliament for all and willingness to seek agreements in this young man, because it is true that he has accepted some important and important points, and those of other groups, as Deputy Coscubila said, that have made this young man more complete and, I think, that he has a value if we finally get approved. Some considerations in relation, therefore, to the motion, and to justify, therefore, our considerations, right? First, an annotation I'd like to make, and I know it's difficult in this context of an alarming general government debt, and in general of the states, but the debt itself doesn't have to be painful, it's not painful, is it? ; in the end, if we are in debt to finance schools, primary care centres, hospitals or mobility infrastructures that allow us to be more competitive, then that doesn't have to be painful. The problem is when they're making investments that aren't so necessary, right? And here, therefore, would surely link with this concept of legitimacy to what the CUP constantly refers to, right? Therefore, the debt itself is not hurtful, even though it is true that at the levels that we are at these times in Catalonia, therefore, it is very worrying. Especially because we've spent five years from EUR 32,000 million to EUR 72,000-73,000; we'll reach 81,000 at the end of the year, without there being any significant investments in these five years, right? In previous years there were many, not now, and therefore means that the increase of the debt has served to finance the debt. And that's really worrying. And the vice president's face, so it reflects that, doesn't it? , the concern of a debt that increases not because we make necessary infrastructure or investments, but because we need to refine the same debt. There is some view of the UPC in relation to the elements that determine the debt we share, but others believe that they are not shared or, at last, that they are missing, to the young man, and, here, therefore, our reviews, right? First, because it is certain that some elements, such as the austerity policy marked for the European Union, the reform of the 135 – that we are not tired of saying, therefore, that it was probably a mistake and, in fact, we already say that we would like to reform it – the Presuppositional Enabling Law that was approved at the Congress of Deputies, the application here, all of this obviously did that somehow determine our debt, right? But I can also remember that one of the problems that we have here and that the Spanish State has is the so important deficit that we have, right? , the levels of deficiency. We are the State, Spain is the State that has the highest deficit in the whole of the European Union; Italy has more debt than we do, but as it has much less deficit and complements it, so it has a better economic situation. It's to say that here we should also look at what's going on, what's going on in the State, and what's going on in Catalonia. And here's where we have some differences with the CUP, in the sense that they, somehow, still have their own history to solve, in part, the debt problem, and we believe that, probably, if we had it, we would live better, but without having it we could also be in another situation. And in this sense, since 2010, with Convergence and Union governments raised for the People's Party first and then for the Republican Left, we have not seen a tax reform in some taxes that would have included more tickets. And you don't just say the PSC – which you said and repeated – but you said the platform for a fairer taxation or Intermon Oxfam said it. I mean, we could be amending taxes to get more tickets, right? With the history itself that would be much better, but in any case today we could be able to have more tickets. We'll see what happens to the assumptions that the government presents to us, and we'll see if this, then, changes, right? Therefore, we believe that there has been a lack of political will, that there is at these times, and that, therefore, could change. Another non-shared element that has been linked to this is that it gives the feeling, Mrs Reguant, that the government has had to privatize, sell assets, retail, to face the debt. And we think it's not like that; they used it as an excuse, but no, we don't think that the privatizations, the sale of the assets or the retailings that have been made, so it's just as right – as right – the debt. There could have been other things: getting more tickets, for example, with some tax reform, right? Therefore, in this sense, this thought was not approved and it seemed to us, therefore, that it was important. And lastly, we agree with the Members who have preceded us, it is important to be able to do this audit, so we believe that we should analyse it, this debt we have, see if there have been irregularities, and, therefore, here, we should act judicially and administratively as close as we can, and, above all, it is true, to look for these solutions – we will support these proposals from Catalonia Yes, it is possible – these solutions I believe that somehow the Vice President has begun to work, that it is to open the dialogue with the State, that we remember that we are five years old, was closed, to renegotiate..., not to renegotiate the debt... yes, but yes, in part to restructure the debt, partly to finance ourselves better. That, maybe, if we had started doing this since 2010 or 2012, we wouldn't be in this situation, we'd be in a situation a little better, wouldn't we? Therefore, welcome this new line, and probably if we did many more things than we would touch or have done until now, then we would be in one situation a little – a little – better; I'm not saying that we would solve everything, but we would probably be in another situation. Thank you. And let's hope, well, that you can approve, so, some interesting elements of this young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.275.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.276.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members, in order to position ourselves in relation to this motion; it was a move that we understand that the Parliamentary Group of the CUP has presented, but frankly, we do not understand that the groups that preceded me..., Mr Coscubiela..., look that they have a coalition, that any other Members who were not of the Initiative could have come out, and therefore were not also heirs of a tripartite government in which Initiative was involved, and the Socialist Group, that, man, are largely responsible for the situation of the debt we have now. I understand the CUP, I do not understand the Initiative or the Socialist Group in this case. We, from the outset, share a concern, one, only one, with the CUP Group, which has presented this motion, which is the concern for the debt. We are also concerned about the debt, about the amount of debt involved and about the financial expenses that this debt generates; this is certainly a worrying force. Now, we don't share anything more than your speech and your account of the debt. The debt is not generated by the whims of the funded entities, the debt is generated by the will of the governments; wills sometimes more accentuated, sometimes less accentuated, but wills of the governments, wills of the rulers – certainly, rulers who have been freely and democratically chosen for the citizens, are not rulers who have appeared from the non-res. And the underlying problem is that the elasticity of public tickets is much greater than the elasticity of public expenditure: when there are many tickets governments tend to spend a lot, but when the tickets fall suddenly governments have many difficulties to adapt the expenditure to the new level of entries. And what's causing it is that it's spent more than it's getting involved, and what's causing it is that it's generic deficits that end up financing with debt. Therefore, the origin of the debt cannot be any other, it has no other reading than the fact of spending more than it really is. And that has two solutions, basically: one, increase public tickets, that is, rub the citizens at taxes to be able to pay the debts. [[Funnel veils]] ; two... – let's talk to me, Mr. Albano –, two, try to reduce public spending. And obviously, between white and black, there's a whole range of grays where you can make combinations. And surely in balance they'd find the solution... we'd find the best solution. Now, the speech that because of the debt is not possible to make social policies, they know a little about the economic structure and finance the assumptions and liquidations of the Government of the Generality, of the whole Generality, is a statement that cannot stand. Why? We have the exercise of removing from expenditure all financial, depreciation and interest expenditure; we delete and analyze what remains of it, which resources remain between ordinary receipts and ordinary expenditure, on the margins of financing. On the other hand, we are still spending more than we are getting involved in, on the margins of financial expenditure. And that means two things: one, even though we don't pay the debt, we don't pay the debt – nothing, no depreciation, no interest – even though we don't pay anything, we will continue to be indebted – we will continue to be indebted – because we continue to spend more than it really does. This situation that ends up causing – it has caused – is that the markets financed hardly finance anyone. And this has been the situation of the Government of Catalonia. And that's why this demon that sees all of you – a lot of you – has appeared, this demon with money that is said to be FLA, Autonomous Liquidity Fund, that re-centralizes us, that controls us, I don't know what to do with the closing of the funded markets to finance the Government of Catalonia. And it is the Autonomous Liquidity Fund that has allowed to finance the payment of the debt and the government deficit of the Generality. The reason goes on... – certainly, the FLA that allows public services to continue lending, certainly, and providers, charging –. I'm done. We are asking for information; we believe that, from information, there is not much; however, we will vote in favour of all the proposals relating to information. We believe that more information is needed, of course, about structured funding and we will support all aspects that make reference to the citizen audience, but let me remind you that what we are here is not Martians, we are citizens, and our work, among other things, also consists of auditing. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.277.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms.Carmina Castellví, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please – quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.278.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon to everyone. Mrs. Reguant, I fully agree with the diagnosis you made in your first point of the motion: the level of public debt that now supports the Generality is unacceptable. We need means to reverse this situation, one of which is a public record of its own that allows us to collect and manage our taxes. Today, the Spanish State collects 95_percent of the taxes paid by Catalans, and the other 5_percent is taxed or sold. And that's not the worst: from everything that is collected, Catalonia only got a 60_per_cent return; the Spanish State left a 40_per_cent, of the taxes we pay to Catalonia, and that doesn't happen anywhere else in the world. If we don't have this fiscal deficit, as some say, or suffer from it, as some others say, we won't accumulate any more debt and we can begin to reduce it. And what's more surreal than anything: the FLA. Explains clearly: the money of our taxes is collected by the State, it manages them as well as when it turns out that we are without liquidity to pay the suppliers, it returns to us a small part, as if it were a beast, and it takes more interest in us to become our own money. Who's the result of everything folded? Now for now, the Generalitat can only finance through the FLA. The State does a good business at the expense of the welfare state and the Generality is forced to run in deficit if it wants to keep basic services. And the amendment of Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, which prioritizes the payment of the debt and the associated interests before any other expense, was already missing, even though it is a social emergence, which is an authentic immorality. In a situation where all public resources are not enough to cover social needs, which has priority? - Who's up for it? Who's cold? The children and the young people to be educated? The evils they want to heal? So, no. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No! No! [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.279.0	Please, please, please respect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.280.0	According to the sacrosanct Spanish Constitution, which first has to be charged is the creditor of the debt and if after he covers there are no others, then bad luck; another day you will eat, another day you will warm up, you will get back the formation you need or you will have the health care you claim, but today it is up to you to charge the banker. "The Spanish Constitution," they say, "cannot be touched. It is not possible to interpret the right to decide by the nations, nor to guarantee the effectiveness of the social rights of the people, but it is possible to modify a dark night, for the back door, so that the tenor of the debt sleeps calmly. A citizen's audit to put black on white the debt? To answer the question of why have we been in debt? To make an integral analysis of this debt from all perspectives? Of course I do. We're building a new country, we're at the gates of a process, we're opening the windows, we're going into the air and ventilating it all. And thanks to this audit we can move forward with a model of financial and presuppositional transparency that we all want for the new Catalan Republic. If the result of this civic audit, the knowledge of the debt gene, its structure and conditions, identify possible irregularities, then we can determine which administrative and judicial actions to undertake. And it seems to me that that's what we all agree on. It must be borne in mind, however, that the debt has to be paid. The trust that has to allow Catalonia independent access to the credit is at stake. So alone, Mrs. Reguant, we need to concretely get this audit going: do we do it in the work group on the debt? With a study commission? We agree, we are ready. And, finally, he wanted to thank the group proposing the motion for acceptance and transaction of our papers, which we believe will enrich the text, because if we talk about transparency, of implementing good practices to make it possible, of good governance, our parliamentary group will be there. Unfortunately, at other points in the House we will vote that no, as we understand that without the anticipated step of this audit we cannot move forward and disqualify the debt free of charge, without taking into account the fatal consequences that this can have for the viability of our public finances. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.281.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr. Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.282.0	Thank you, Madam President. The Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Crida Constituent has brought us a motion with which we only agree on the finding that public debt has grown excessively since 2007 and on the will to establish mechanisms for transparency, participation and accountability to citizens. Nothing else, nothing else we agree on, and that is why, of course, we will vote against virtually the whole motion. But our discrepancy is capital and total when we are offered disobediences, indifferences and non-compliances with creditors, whether they be the State, financial institutions or financial markets. A country is serious and is recognized internationally for its seriousness when it makes legal security a basic and fundamental issue. And you, with your motion, intend to blow the air, tear down, legal certainty. Look, citizens are also concerned about deficit and debt, because we know that they are a burden on social policies and also on economic growth. We also know that part of the structured debt is due to that policy of capitalist friendships which, on many occasions, they do is to privatize profits and socialize losses, and, in that, Citizens are radically opposed. We know that there are contracts between different governments and some companies that guarantee the benefit of these companies, regardless of their results. And as I was telling you, that can't be, we can't consent to it. But in the face of these facts, which are obvious, the solution is not to transfer debt liability to creditors, as perspired throughout the motion; nor is the path to submission, non-compliance or declaration of debt null and void. The way is to act politically, administratively or judicially, as appropriate. The way is to strengthen the rule of law and not skip it, as you claim. In fact, I sincerely believe that there is an act of some unconsciousness because if we want to skip the rule of law, who will really get hurt we will be the majority of citizens, especially if it is on debt issues because: is it that we are not aware of the need to continue to need money and to lend it to us? Are we not aware of this? Naturally, if we enter the path of non-compliance, the faucet will be closed, and that, the consequences, who will pay them, will again be the citizenship, the majority of the people, the majority of the Catalans. And that, why? Well, because the first effect of such a circumstance would be to increase the interests of money and we would also have that... as a result, less capacity to meet the public and social policies we need. Look, we think we need to negotiate; we need to negotiate, even the public deficit. Yes, you have to be able to sweeten the deficit targets. But we have to do that, precisely since..., by giving guarantees of compliance and by giving guarantees that we are going to make necessary reforms also to be able to take the path of economic growth and the generation of wealth. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, let us know that this is the way, the way of negotiation, that there will be no more cuts if we are able to convince and negotiate, that the way, precisely, of the non-compliance made by the PP, or of the threat of non-compliance made by the UPCs will lead us to nothing but greater impoverishment. Be reasonable, change your positioning, the positioning that, in fact, harms Catalans. Abandon it and embrace more realistic positions. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.283.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the lady Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.284.0	Thank you, thank you very much. I'll start at the end, because, in the background, there's nothing surprising or... I mean, I didn't expect anything different, I'd just say there's nothing more harmful to Catalans than defending the interests of IBEX 35, and that's all there is to it. [[Some applause.]] Before the rest of the parliamentary groups, I would say that the causes of the debt, it is obvious that they were not all specified in the motion, but they are much deeper than the adjustment plans or the one that marks the European Union; I would say that the causes of the magnitude of the debt are based on a collapsing and predatory system that is called capitalism. And this is where the causes of the debt are. And obviously, the debt itself and the deficit aren't bad, the problem is when they turn into snowballs and what they do is become priorities for anything else. And, therefore, it is obvious that there is a need for restructuring and more, yes, but it is also obvious and necessary for it to be planted at some point, and more so when we already have a considerable history, a history that I am surprised that there are parliamentary groups here that are systematically refusing to put the data on it, which is 2007. From 2007 to 2010 the debt is tripled; from 2007 to 2010 there is a low tax reform; from 2007 to 2010 the retail start. Continue later, but there are names and surnames. 2007 has names and surnames, and it is called tripartite, and from 2010 to 2015 it has names and surnames, and it is called Convergence and Union. Therefore, here we do not exonerate the responsibilities. [[Some applause.]] I thank everyone's statements, which have served to enrich the writing, to improve it, to deepen it and to generate even more consensus. And, finally, I appreciate the views of the People's Party, which, knowing directly that we would not accept them, has presented them, because this..., also forms part of the parliamentary debate, although we do not understand politics in the same way, because I do, sometimes, have the feeling that here we are more citizens than citizens who worry about most things going on outside this wall or these marble pairs. With all this, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.285.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Call it a vote. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.286.0	For a separate vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.287.0	How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.288.0	Look, for a band, we could do a joint vote on points 1.b...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.289.0	One moment, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.290.0	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.291.0	A joint ballot of the points... is that we have to see if the others also match it, right?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.292.0	Let's see if it fits, yeah, right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.293.0	Anyway, so, the porters are paying attention, because, if not, she's quite a young lady... well, pretty complicated, isn't she? In this sense. Come on, joint voting of the points...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.294.0	1.b...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.295.0	1.b...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.296.0	... 4.d...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.297.0	... 4.d...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.298.0	...5th...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.299.0	...5th...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.300.0	...and 5.b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.301.0	...and 5.b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.302.0	These for one gang, and for another, point 2.a...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.303.0	Second...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.304.0	...and point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.305.0	Three.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.306.0	Thank you. [[Carmina Castellví and Vallverdú ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.307.0	Mrs. Castellví.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.308.0	Thank you. It was to ask for a separate vote on points 1.c, 2a bis, 3, 4.b bis and 5. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.309.0	Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.310.0	Yeah. For a separate vote on points 1.a, 2.b, 4.a, 4.b and 4.c. We could group 1.a, 2.b, 4.b and 4.c. We could group them together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.311.0	All right. The joint vote of '1.b, 4.d, 5a, 5.b, 2a and 3 was called for. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah! , forgave: 1.b, 4.d, 5.a, 5.b. Are you okay with this joint vote? [[Pause.]] No, no, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The joint vote on points 1.b, 4.d, 5a and 5.b was requested. I ask the rest of the groups... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, So no. Therefore, these will have to vote one by one. So maybe they all vote for each other one by one. The vote on '1.c, 2a bis, 3, 4.b bis and 5 was then called for. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's not it, fanciful. [[The president laughs. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] And 1st and 2.b together? [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] 1st and 2.b together? [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Neither, fanciful. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Rodriguez, did you ask me for the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.312.0	But if you're ready to vote point by point, I'll get rid of it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.313.0	No, point by point, no. All those who have asked of us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.314.0	So, I'll add complication to the subject.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.315.0	What will add to it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.316.0	2.b., 4.a. and 4.c. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-19-1602.317.0	They were already out, yeah. Well, then, we will vote on these – we will vote on these – and then we will vote on the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] We'll start voting for point 1.a. The vote begins. It was approved by 126 votes to five, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 1.b. The vote begins. It was approved by 81 votes to 50, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 1.c. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 1.c. It was rejected by 35 votes in favour, 95 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 2.a. The vote begins. It was approved by 81 votes to 33, with 17 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the second encore. The vote begins. It was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 95 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on 2.b. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 3. The vote begins. It was rejected by 21 votes to 94, with 16 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 4.a. The vote begins. It was approved by 106 votes in favour, against and 25 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 4.b. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 4.b bis. The vote begins. It was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 95 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 4.c. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 4.d. The vote begins. It was approved by 80 votes to 49, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 5.a. The vote begins. It was rejected by 21 votes in favour, 110 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 5.b. The vote begins. It was rejected by 20 votes in favour, 111 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 97 votes to 34, with no abstentions. Thank you very much. And the session goes up.
