ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.1.0	The session begins. [[Greetings to a new Member]] Good morning. I would like to greet the new Member of Parliament, who joined today, Mr Sergio Santamaría, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. [[Some applause.]] I would also like to remind you that, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Esther Niubó of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has delegated her vote to the spokesman of her group, Mrs Eva Granados, only today, because she will be joining us tomorrow. And I am also sure that Mrs Maria Assumption Laïlla has delegated her vote to the chairman of her parliamentary group, Mr Jordi Turull. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. I'm told that the lady... I don't know if you know, Mrs. Maria Assumption Laïlla has already been a mother, and so, in fact... [[Greetings.]] A four-pound boy who's called Pau, for more information. [[Widow's remorse.]] The list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary is included in the dossier; according to Rule 161, they will be substantiated this morning as the first item of the agenda. I would like to point out that, at the end of the control session, we will read the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. And now let's start, now, the first point of the order of the day, which you are asking the government. [[Ask the Government about the Generality's assumptions regarding occupational health]] [[310-00145/11]] The first question is about the generality's assumptions regarding occupational health. The question is posed by Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.2.0	Good morning, everybody. Good morning, Counselor. As you know, on the 20th of April last, when asked in this plenary of the deputy Marta Ribas on the report of the Workers' Committees where it was found that the public health cost them 2,000_million euros a year the professional diseases, that they should be paid for the mutuals, you recognized it and said textually that "between 10 and 15_percent of the pathology that attends to the primary care is probably of labor origin and that actually this cost 2,000_million euros a year. Allow 'to ask them: what quantity, of these 2,000_millions, do you plan to recover the year you see and how it will be reflected in the assumptions of 2017? Because I haven't been able to find it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. Greetings from the Councillor, Mr. Antoni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.4.0	Thank you, Madam President; good morning. Good morning, everybody. Deputy Vidal, it's just an acclaim with the figures: it's 2,000_million if we're talking about the concept of working-related maladies. And, according to a study, which is the most rigorous that exists, that has been done from the Basque Country, they are 600_million specifically for underreporting of specifically occupational diseases; only this; but this does not invalidate anything we have been doing so far. Indeed, we – and, of course, I have no problem recognizing it, very much at the impulse of parliamentary actions made by your parliamentary group – are making all policies of detection of underreporting of work pathology worse. Because we are the first interested in the fact that some resources that we should have from the Department of Health were not left in the hands of social security. So, what are we doing? More than just a question of assumptions, it's about improving the detection system. And, therefore, we are driving at these times the creation of the Epidemiological Labor Surveillance and Information System, the SISVEL; with SISVEL – then, if in any case, I will give it more details – which is an important process of reforming the systems of detection of underreporting, which we will achieve is a double standard, but when this system is already fully operational; a standard for the pathology that does not happen on the part of the National Health System, which we will no longer have when the SISVEL and another standard for the ability we will have to better claim to the different parts of the assistance that has already been provided from the National Health System.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.6.0	Yes; thank you, counselor. Do you know what's going on? That you're used to giving reason, and that makes us very happy, but we don't always see the facts turned into reality, because I was talking about money. I mean, since the 20th of April, how much money could we say we've recovered so far? Because, of course, 2,000_million euros would be more than a fifth of all your greetings, and it's that you should come out as a coet to settle this. And like... we don't know if he's doing it or not, because, that, the only way to know is to see if he's reflecting on the assumptions or not. I am saying this because, for example, two days ago, you, in relation to this motion, should have presented in this Parliament the alert system protocol from primary care to identify work-related illnesses, and be able to start charging mutuals. That's what the lady asked him to do, and, truth be told, we haven't seen him yet today. The same way that in this young man there were about twenty measures that, between you and the Counsellor of Treball, you had to complete, some three months ago, and we don't see them; like, for example, how we have the follow-up report on public health spending for professional illnesses, and the program to identify them, and the specific plan to make visible the unrecognized work disorders, and the revision of the criteria on bass control by ICAM. It's that we approved for unanimity, counselor. And for money... don't tell us the warmest is in the water. We want this information before the assumptions. You have, please, a date prior to the debate of assumptions to present the measures of the motion and ensure that we incorporate them. Because we like to coincide very much, we appreciate your promises, but we would like very much that you are pleased. Two million euros lost for public health are not a joke and the citizenry would understand very little that we do not want to recover them urgently so as not to disturb the mutuals that, poor, with the crisis have lost so much. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.7.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.8.0	"As a coet," you said. And we posed ourselves as a coet, and as a coet we activated this new project. And I offer to appear, better than me, Dr. Armengol, who is leading this from the Secretary of Public Health, and explaining all the details to them. But this is like the tax fraud, he says: "I want to end the tax fraud. We won't do it in a week, unfortunately it's very complex. And we are addressing the complexity of the problem. That's why we've closed the design of this SISVEL now, in disembarkation. The gene begins the piloting phase with a first group of 30 primary care teams, 8 mutuals and 9 occupational diseases. And it's October 17th that we'll do this pilot's assessment and extend it to one hundred per cent of primary care teams, one hundred per cent of mutuals, and one hundred per cent of work surveillance services. All the ways, before we already have this system, which is actually going to make it possible for us to "seriously reduce the underreporting, we are already operating, even if we do not have this information system, and we have two-hundred resolutions since the beginning of the year 2016 before the National Institute of Social Security, which allowed us to redeem 600,000_euros. This €600,000 has already been bailed out and is part of the 2016 presuppost, not the 2017 presuppost.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.9.0	Counselor... I know hard, they've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.10.0	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.11.0	Second question to the government, about the damage caused to wildlife. [[Ask the Government about the damage caused to wildlife]] [[310-00142/11]] The question is posed by Ms. Maria Dolors Rovirola, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.12.0	Thank you, President. During the second half of the century, the European society experienced a transformation of thought from which all the policies of conservation of species emerged. It was natural, since in the later years they were extinct or were about to do so. Thanks to this new thinking and the new policies, legislative changes and the promotion of many species were hard to come by. As a result of these policies, there are many species that have increased their populations and emerged from the risk of extinction, or even returned to Catalonia. But they have had such a favorable development that they have reached very worrying levels of their overpopulation. For farmers and farmers – and they also corroborate, also, the biolegs – they have become an authentic evil: they produce irreversible heavy damage to all Catalan communities. The overpopulation of senglars – which have come, at last, to urban nuclei –, deans, deer, crows, llops, rabbits... ; yes, even a whole animal that seems as harmless as the rabbit causes irreversible damage to young farmers and olive trees, eating the skin of the punch to cause us death. All this fauna is guilty of literally tearing down all kinds of cult camps and attacking and killing cattle, especially in pasture areas. Moreover, they can also carry disease, so we would have animal health problems if they came into contact with any livestock of the rameder farms; damage to crops, damage to animals, and without forgetting the multitude of traffic accidents that provoke all our caravans. Councillor Serret, what is the government's understanding of preventing and minimizing these effects on wildlife?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Serret, Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.14.0	Thank you, President. You have certainly pointed out, as we have a great challenge in the country, and we find that our ecosystems, our environment, are suffering from an imbalance due to the overpopulation of certain species of hunting wildlife, the one that can be hunted. And, as you said, they're mostly simple, they're also rabbits, and they're also cases of cabirols, nuts and some species of ocells. They hurt us... they hurt us with the same biodiversity, the same ecosystems of wild fauna and flora, because of this overpopulation that they compete in the environment. They're hurting agriculture and the grocery store. You have said cases of cults, also the wine, and also diseases of the beast. And it also hurts people and the coexistence of people in the environment, for traffic accidents, but also for the diseases that can be transmitted to people. From here, we have designed a plan..., a plan of prevention and struggle against these damage of wildlife and kinegetics and which is based on three pillars: the first, is the best regulation. I've said it a lot. We have a hunting law that is 1970, that's to say, we have to update it, and with this new, more social role to develop the hunting and more controlled way. We also have to go ahead..., we are going ahead with the decree on the marketing of game meat, which must help us to put order in this resource, and also in the health visit and generate economy for the territory. And, now, we're... the second big pillar is coordinating: coordinating and improving the participation of all the administrative areas and all the actors and territories. In the own government we will approve the creation of the inter-departmental commission, with Agriculture, Territories and Sustainability, Interior and Health, to go well coordinated to face these challenges. We are also pushing those bodies at the municipal level to better coordinate actions in the security areas, with much participation from the assemblies, which are the great actors and promoters. And we are also driving pilot plans in different territories and specific areas. And we start with special plans for singlar, and also for the wine-growing sector, which is very much affected by everything. Here we are also pushing for a better share, and now, in November, we are putting into operation, already, an administrative unit specific to the same Department of Agriculture, which is the one that will help us manage, improve journeys, and simplify and coordinate all our bodies, huh? , and all adaptation to the needs and specificities of the territory. All in all, we must be aware that we must manage our environment well to balance ecosystems and to ensure the coexistence and sustainable development of the people who live there, and of the whole country. "Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.15.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the results of the latest sectoral teaching conference]] [[310-00143/11]] Third question to the Government, on the results of the later sectoral teaching conference. The question is posed by Ms. Anna Simó, from the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.16.0	Thank you, President. Councillor... – so here we are – this Parliament was given seven years ago, for the most part very solid, a law of education that you serve for various generations, to break a little the dynamics of organic laws, we understand each other. A legal framework that has as basic objectives integration, inclusion, cohesion and linguistic immersion; basic objectives of good student and citizen education, ultimately. This model, which has nothing to do with it, which puts back the effort and which puts back the constant work forged for our administrations and for the educational community at the last decades, puts the LOMCE at risk. We have said this repeatedly in this House. LOMCE, it may be repealed ; it may not freeze or kill it : it may be repealed. Because LOMCE was done to end the Catalan school model. LOMCE is pedagogically harmful. The LOMCE impoverishes the education of the student; the impoverishment for many reasons, however, concretely, today wanted to ask him for a question, so that he poses the assessment not as a learning or diagnosis tool as the LEC does, or as a fan or plant the evidence of the department of evaluation per competence, but as a course of obstacles that is put to the students, that would spend more time reproducing what they have memorized – which they no longer say after – than participating in the process of proper learning. And why put the assessment not as a pedagogical, but ideological and control tool... – like all the law –, of control to ensure that we apply centralized curricula, uniformers, bundles, giants and elongates from the advanced school that we want. These are the mechanisms that drive the model that we want, this external and centralizing evaluation, the renewals at the end of primary, secondary and baccalaureate, and the design of a curriculum of trunk assignments that LOMCE recovers for the ministry. Do you, Counselor, think this is going to change now? There was a sectoral education conference, the first ever to have a new government in the State. Did you, Counselor, notice that the government does not have the majority of the Congress to hold the LOMCE at this sectoral conference? Is the government giving itself for taste? What do you think? Was there the dialog, the board, the building and the loyal dialog that they tell us they want with Catalonia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.17.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Simó. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.18.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, no, I didn't know how to see it; I don't know if I didn't know how to appreciate it, but I didn't know how to see it, and I'll explain why. It is true that we agree that we must repeal the LOMCE; you did not say the reasons. LOMCE is to remove students who do not use the system before time, because this will automatically improve the results – they will not improve these students, but they will improve the results at the system's conjunction –; it depresses vocational training, and raises an assessment that is actually from the 19th and not from the 21st century. Miri, I've made the effort to look for two examples, because sometimes there are people who criticise us who only think of competing issues... Look at how you put the assessment of LOMCE and how you plant, from the competitions, in Catalonia. Their learning standards are: "I will ask you..., about the meaning of the slope of a straight line and different ways of calculating the, when our curricula demand that our students maintain a search attitude before a problem, continue to try and discuss other proposals in such a cooperative and individual learning environment; this is working by skills and not working by learning standards. Look, the government has no choice but to accept – the Spanish government – that it has no majority. What he did with the changes is what he had to do, because he couldn't do anything else. The course has begun, the students of the second baccalaureate have been in the classroom for three months, and what they can't do is make a test for all of Spain when the course had already begun. Therefore, we do not understand as long as there is a proposal for a dialog, but the only option I could have at that time. Since the Government of Catalonia we have made two petitions, which we must say that they have had the majority support of all the communities that were not of the PP; it is said that they are not. We wanted this assessment, which was competitive and which was competent in the autonomous communities, as it is; he told us no. And we also asked him to swallow the additional thirty-seven; he told us no. The Generalitat, in the midst of this dialogue, made a proposal to it: "So I accept that the competences are shared and I agree to suspend this..., not cancel it, but suspend it for the time being, until we reach an agreement; she also told us not to. Therefore, their dialect, for the time being, was: they speak, they propose and you accept. And when you talk, you ask and you propose he won't accept. Frankly, I believe that the dialogue was that of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, but for the moment we have not seen that this is his. We hope that you will be able to divest into another and, if not, we will continue to demand that you respect the competitions and that the LOMCE is removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about the novelties of mobile application for victims of male violence]] [[310-00144/11]] Fourth question to the Government, about the novelties of mobile application for victims of male violence. The question is posed by Ms Montserrat Fornells, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable Councillor d'Interior, the past divenders, November 25th, we celebrated, like every year, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, that is, of male violence. One more year, we expressed our rebreed and our concern for this social chaos that, long before disappearing, is saddenedly present in the day-to-day of our society. Violence against women does not include social classes, origins, age, or level of study; it gives in all situations, and it is a real social problem. As the UN says, it's the world's largest covert crime. In what we carry from year, there have been almost eleven_ thousand complaints related to male violence and we have had to regret four fatal victims in Catalonia. There are different types of violence: psychological, such as threats, coercion or harassment; physics, which involves light, hard or tempting injuries of homicide; and sexual. Many women denounce these abuses, but there are also many more women who live with silence every day and because of abuse, insults and threats of male-based violence. It is also very worrying about the increase in situations of violence between young people and the denial of young people to be aware of suffering it or exercising it. Call cross-cutting policies to undo this problem and to give security to abused women. Likewise, it is necessary to encourage all civil society to show zero tolerance towards any male-based violence, and the commitment to continue working for its suppression, to make a country free of male-based violence. For all the talk, Mr. Counsellor, from our group we want to ask him: what news will he bring and what forecast does the department have on the new application for victims of male violence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.21.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fornells. Reply by Mr. Jordi Jané, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.22.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree: zero tolerance and help the maximum, also through the use of the new technologies, so many women who suffer from these masculinist attacks. To do so, this app is a pioneer. And what does it consist of? Allows the 112 emergence phone to have a specific database of those potential victims of male violence. And these victims, sometimes, are about an attack and they can't even talk, or they can press a button: the button of this app. And phone 112, like the default one, only gets the call through this app, will immediately activate the Emergence Service and the Squad Moves, even though the victim can't talk. And it's more: this application incorporates that the victim, if so desired, can predetermine up to six people that she would wish that, in the event of an emergency, a potential attack, would require a message to send the mobile, a text message; predetermine those proper people: her view, her parents, the bottle she has at the canton and that, press the button, without saying anything, would also cover up to six people that message to get there in time and as soon as possible better. Also incorporate safety tips, which do when an attack of this type is suffered. And these safety tips... sometimes we can find that male attacker who's controlling his victim's cell phone and who's seeing that he's actually connecting with some safety tips and that he can only attack her when he sees it; so there's going to be the output button: at first only one button completely erases the patch, the track of these consultations. This app also provides for those assumptions that the victim no longer has a battery on the mobile phone or that the attacker has it close to it or broke it. If you've pre-determined the fix, with that phone fixed, if you call it, 112 will also know that we're ahead of a possible victim and try to get there in time, try to get this sacra not to continue, try to really donate tools. And, therefore, this must also be done when the victim wishes his data to be part of this information that will have 112. It will respect its confidentiality, but what we're trying to do with this app, which is pioneering, is to help victims, to give them opportunities to, as soon as possible, get the immediate answer they deserve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the intention to include the requests of the educational community in the assumptions of the Generalitat for 2017]] [[310-00137/11]] Five questions to the Government, on the intention to include the requests of the educational community in the assumptions of the 2017 Generalitat. The question is posed by Mr Carles Riera, from the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.24.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, at the beginning of the debate on the assumptions of the 2017 Generality and the planning period of the initial of the own school year, we want to ask him whether his department intends to incorporate the requests and proposals of the minimums – subratllo« de minims – that the educational community poses in a unitary way – and also subratlo« in a unitary way – in order to initiate the recovery of the public education, both for what it does to the stralls caused by the retails as in order to resume the path of the appropriate of our public education system to the references of the European Union in educational matters and the same objectives of the Law. And this is concrete: to complete the return to the twenty-three and divided classes at the primary and secondary levels, respectively; to cover all replacements, from the first day to the 1st of September; to reduce two teaching hours to the major faculty by fifty-five years; to invest, especially in secondary schools, so as to ensure future demand in public centres; effective measures to eliminate segregation and encourage inclusive school; to guarantee public places from zero to three years for all families requiring it, with particular attention and care for those who have a special need for their economic situation and need for reconciliation, and finally, to guarantee the adequacy and gratuity of vocational training and qualification programmes, in the context of the professional form of the centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.25.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.26.0	Thank you, Madam President. As you know, before these assumptions were processed, we also met with the MUCE, because these requests had come to us, and even in their mouths they recognized that these requests amounted to more than 700_million euros; therefore, we are aware that we would already like to have more than 700_million euros to be able to increase the teaching requirement, but this is not the case. What we asked them is who were their priorities respect this and see if they match the priorities that we have as the government of the Generality. I have to tell you that they put us on the table that, of all these petitions that came to us, they told us that for them they were priorities – I tell you all four, because they prioritized all – the groceries, the better replacements, the school buildings and the centres of maximum complexity. They just know that – we haven't been talking these days – these are the main axes we've put into these assumptions. The attention to inclusive education..., it is very easy to say that now, with these resources, we can already start the inclusive school decree. This means social integration technicians, special education educators, children's education technicians; this means being able to expand specific training routes; this means being able to increase the number of seniors; this means being able to put more than three hundred teachers in order to attend diversity in those centres that need them most; this means increasing the units of shared schooling, the programmes of new opportunities, and also the scholarships of women, as we have said, with more than 12_million euros, and the replacements of teaching staff. Already with the negotiations we've been having, you also put some element on the table, and we agreed to replace from September 1st..., and the substitutions of more than two days, the long one, that arrive at the centers on the first day. We were aware that this generated a lot of denial in the centers, and therefore this has been incorporated, apart from the constructions as well. So, we understand that yes, that we have met these demands, that they themselves have already accepted that they were not of the least, and, from here, work. But I honestly believe that their petitions and ours match force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.28.0	Thank you, President. Well, thank you, Counselor, for your answer. We do not doubt the efforts that are actually making its department so as to begin this recovery of our public teaching, but sincerely, listening to your answer, my conclusion, our conclusion is that these advances that you announce will effectively incorporate the assumption of 2017 that you are proposing are still far from the very least that the educational community is raising; I insist, very much. In fact, these days in this Parliament we are recovering the MUCE, we are returning the unions, and I think that we will have occasion to see this reality, and it is that the minimum aspirations of the educational community so that effectively, not one day for another, not today for tomorrow, but that we are actually starting to finish an effective recovery process that places education in the neural center of the recovery of the retail strata, so actually it is a reality. Therefore, counsel, we ask you for a special sensitivity and a special receptivity...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.29.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.30.0	...to what the sector is asking of us at these times.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.31.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.32.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. I say to him: in this meeting they accepted that they were not small, because 700_million euros is not a minimum petition, and that is why we asked them to know their parent about their priority of all these. Miri, only the labour measures proposed to us already represent more than EUR 420 million. Therefore, what we have to do is go forward to go forward, thus improving the premise of Teaching so as to give answer. What have we prioritized? The educational care for students in the sense that I give them, is to say, we have prioritized improving substitutions and we have prioritized meeting all those needs that are in the center.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.33.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.34.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.35.0	Sixena asks the government, about the autonomes. [[Ask the government about autonomies]] [[310-00139/11]] The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.36.0	Thank you, President. Consellera Bassa, in Catalonia we have 545,300 autonomous who each day raise the blind and start their business generating wealth, creating employment and maintaining their families. What does your government plan to help these workers in 2017?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.37.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.38.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Member, for the question. He said very well, more than 500..., practically 550,000 affiliations to Social Security on their own, which represents a 1.2_per_cent increase in respect to the past year, when in Spain it is a 0.7_per_cent, therefore, it means that we are going for the right way and we are doing good work. As you know, there are different programs that we have planned and that we have already put in the way. The program..., we have resolved the fourth call that makes personalized advice to the autonomous, with 1_million euros, that will reach 37 consultants, 17 entities and, as I said, 4,000 advisories. A line to encourage the incorporation of young people and a line of « Empren, from the ICF, with a quantity of money, of more than 20_million euros for projects for all the autonomies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.39.0	Thank you, Counselor. You have the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.40.0	Thank you, Madam Counselor, for your answer, but you don't convince us. The data that you have given away is that, in the last six months, while wage employment has grown at a much higher rate than self-employment, up to ten times faster than the self-employment that has been created by self-employment, self-employment has only grown by 0.1_per_cent in those last six months from April to October 2016, and we believe that your Government is doing nothing to stimulate this growth of self-employment close to 0. There are several measures adopted in this Parliament at the initiative of Ciutadans that have not yet been carried out, despite having been approved: the measures to cover sick leave and maternity leave and paternity leave, the measures to enable self-employed people to retire without losing their businesses, to facilitate access to the Internet when self-employed people open their businesses, and the case of the 2010 government decree establishing the creation of the Catalan Council of the Autonomous Treball is even more scandalous. It's been seven years and they haven't found the time to create this board yet. You have found the time to create the National Transitional Advisor Council, which has written seventeen volumes that no one has read, but a council to represent the autonomous, you haven't had time in seven years. You, Mrs Bassa, have increased Mr Romeva's budget by 32_million. It cost 16_million to extend the flat rate of fifty_euros to the self-employed from six to eighteen months, which they have done in Madrid and Cantabria, with the same financing system as we have. And the last budgets have forgotten our self-sustaining. Consellera Bassa, yesterday we presented at the congress a proposal for a comprehensive law of urgent reforms for self-employment and you, encapsulated in your separatist process, have not participated in these measures and abstained. Stop looking at yourself in Cuba, stop blaming the rest of Spain and even Andalusia and work here, assume that in Catalonia we can do things and in the rest of Spain and Europe too. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.41.0	There's the word Mrs. Pains Bassa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.42.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, first, different fears that you have dealt with. The Council of Self-Employment, I suppose, knows that on September 28th we met with all the entities, did not finish having consent and, therefore, as we used to say from one of our principles: active listening, consent and dialogue with all. So, there's already been a meeting, so I can tell you that the Homework Council is coming forward and we're going to work according to what they decide. You're right, I'd change a lot of things. The first thing that would change is, according to the needs of the local people, being able to be a state in order to have skills about how we do the cooking regime, how we modify the legal framework. Because it is true that you have presented the bill's proposal for urgent reforms for the local people, that yesterday night I had the honor of being able to - read it, and are neglecting some themes, on this proposal. They neglect to talk about the false autonomes, which they don't understand much about; they neglect the reform of the RETA and they neglect to put the representatives of the autonomous communities among the whole consulting. So, we're working for the locals. There have always been more workers affiliated with Social Security than in the past, this is normal for all countries, and what I can tell you is that Catalonia is much more autonomous than the rest of Spain is in so many percent. Therefore, we do and will continue to do good work. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.43.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about external action]] [[310-00140/11]] Seven questions to the government, about external action. The question is posed by Mr Fernando de Páramo of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.44.0	Thank you, President. We are concerned, Mr Romeva, about external action, and we are concerned in three respects. The first is that when you go on your journeys, you will not talk about attracting investment to Catalonia, you will not talk about how to promote Catalan culture, you will not talk about how to attract talent to Catalonia, but you will become a speaker of the process. But you're no longer a trial lecturer, you're the External Action Advisor and you're the advisor to all Catalans. Secondly, we are concerned that when you meet with those countries to which you travel, when they receive you, you meet with the Finnish party the True Finns, the extreme right-wing party of Finland. You go to America and meet in Washington with the Tea Party. The Tea Party is the party of Mr Donald Trump's vice president. These are the gentlemen you meet with. And the worst part is that, besides, he is leaving a series of international conflicts in his travels that we pay all Catalans, and no longer just Catalans... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, as in the case of France, you know him well. Not only the Catalans, but also the rest of the Spaniards. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, the complaints of the French Government. And thirdly, what worries us most is that besides, you don't publish it, you don't count it, you don't count your trips, you don't count your schedule, you don't count what it costs all Catalans to pay for your trips. It has to be a citizen's deputy, Mrs Beltrán, who asks you in parliamentary office and that you then provide the information. Don't you think that being the Transparency Advisor should be a little more transparent? Now that Mr. Junqueras has given you more budget for your council, what are you going to do? Are you going to rectify this policy of non-accountability, of meeting with far - right parties and of going to talk only about independence?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.45.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.46.0	Thank you, President. Miri, Mr. De Paramo, you're a rattled disk. They come here all the time with the same song, they don't do dues, they don't read what's coming, because it's absolutely everything we do, and more than that, they lie. You've announced some of the trips I've made. It's true. Jo, a while ago, I was in New York and Washington. Do you know what I was going to do there? To explain to your United Nations, with all interlocutors, among them the Government of the City of New York, how from Catalonia we have a solid vocation to welcome refugees and how we are doing it, not just as government but as country. That's what I went to explain to New York. The one I went to explain... [[Greetings.]] The one I went to explain to Finland, which I did, certainly not to a group, but to a parliament, and the parliament I don't care about this government, I didn't go to explain to a group, I went to explain to a parliament where there were people from all groups. You can read what you want and you can make up the news that you want, in this you are very good, you know – in this you are very good – you create a myth, you create a lie, you repeat it a hundred times and you end up believing it – and in the end you end up believing it. [[Greetings.]] In this they are extraordinary, but a repeated lie a thousand times is not a truth. The truth is, I went to talk to a parliament where there are representatives from all the groups. As if someone came to talk here, it would be with people who are from Junts for the Yes, or with you. And to a lot of people, I guarantee you that I would do a lot of talking to people that defense according to five postulates – according to five postulates. And they're represented here democratically. That's what happened – that's what happened. Therefore, from this perspective, you read your dues well. The third: you made a specific reference to a specific case. I assure you that the relationships that, as a government, we have with all countries, including France, are extraordinary – extraordinary. From this point of view, we have not opened any conflict, no conflict. On the contrary, what we do is solve 'em. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.47.0	Thank you, Counselor. It has the word the Lord of Parama.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.48.0	You have forgotten to talk about your meeting with the party of Donald Trump's vice president; you have forgotten to talk about that, in Finland, when you go, you have to make the embassy of Finland a press release to deny, the Government of Finland – to deny – who have invited you to Finland, and that when you have arrived in Parliament you have met with the extreme right; you have also forgotten to talk about that you have met with the extreme right. And what you have forgotten, which you always forget, being the Transparency Advisor, is to talk about your agenda. I asked him, I asked him the other day in an interrogation, and he didn't answer me either. I'm asking him today, and he's not answering me either. Why do we have to ask, Members, that you publish the agenda, if you are the Transparency Adviser? And she doesn't publish it, and we don't know where she's going. We learned from the press, fortunately, that you are meeting with Mr Donald Trump's vice-president's party and Finland's far-right party. And worst of all, then, Junts pel Yes, the party with which you sit, votes against you publishing your agenda– Junts pel Yes votes against you publishing your agenda. Use the budget to put it at the service of all Catalans. And don't talk to me, please, about myths – don't talk to me, please, about myths – that you've been devoting yourself a long time to building a myth that will never be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.49.0	Mr. Congressman, you've run out of time. [[Greetings.]] I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.50.0	Look, Mr De Paramo, I remind you: this is a Parliament, it's not a TV set, is it? [[Rialles and some applause.]] We're still aware of that. Here we come to do politics, and so it's all right. I know that you are very pleased with these great headlines who later allow you to tweet and win a few followers, but that has nothing to do with politics and explaining the truth. And I'll tell you something else: what we're doing, it's not just legitimate, it's democratic, I'll tell you something else: it's inevitable. Because, with reflections like you are doing, they don't give us any other option to move forward with our project, local and international. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.51.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the Teaching Inspectors Cos]] [[310-00141/11]] Vuitena asks the government, about the Inspectors of Education Cos. The question is posed by Mrs. María José García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.52.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Education Counsellor, education inspectors must assess and monitor the quality and legality of the system, professionally and independently. For this reason, according to the LEC, they must enter by opposition under the principles of equality, merit and capacity. However, in Catalonia, the Generalitat has only called for opposition to the inspection once in twenty years. The department has been appointing accidental inspectors for 20 years through the exceptional commission of services procedure, with merit competitions that look at the merits after filtering candidates with interviews. Future inspectors who will depend on the department to stay in place, accidental inspectors controlled by the political power they must control. Today, more than three quarters of the inspectors are accidental, and in Girona more than 90_per_cent. This situation, it advises, degrades the effectiveness and independence of the inspection in Catalonia, because it is a hindrance to the work, so that the reports are prepared with total objectivity. Counselor, will you comply with the LEC and promote career inspectors? Are you going to summon opposition to the inspection?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.53.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.54.0	Thank you, Madam President. Commissioner, the merit competitions are based on equality, merit and skill, and the inspectors in Catalonia are doing a task independently of the government that governs. Because if what you're saying is that they're conditioned by the government that rules, it means that you're questioning the reports that the inspector does, and I think we need to defend the job that the inspector does. And what we have done is, in the first place, to appeal to the court, precisely because you do not personally harm the people who have approved this merit contest, and, in the second place, to respond to the two parliamentary mandates that were approved in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.55.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.56.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, a year and a half ago we unsuccessfully appealed to her predecessor to ensure the independence of the inspection and to call for opposition. And time has given us reason. You now have a parliamentary political mandate to summon opposition, not to create your own body/state structure or to apply special shifts to place friends. It also has a court judgment to comply with – even if you appeal it, you must comply with – Judgment 324/16 of the Administrative Court 11 of Barcelona, of 26 July, which annuls the commission of services as a repeated procedure to appoint inspectors. And I read the sentence: "The commission of services cannot be a prolonged method over time nor does it satisfy the general interest or the right to promote teaching staff. And I read more to him; the sentence ends: «The fraud is deliberate, constant and palmary to dodge the law. A very harsh judgment that annuls the accidental appointments of 2015, remains in the legal limbo, and that makes it very urgent to call oppositions if we do not want to leave the inspection without inspectors. Counselor, are you willing to untie the inspection of political control? Are you prepared to stabilize and give legal certainty to the inspection? Are you prepared to comply with the CEA, parliamentary mandates, court rulings and finally call for opposition? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.58.0	Thank you, Madam President. My honourable Member, what I do not accept is that I say in this Parliament that the inspection of Catalonia is subject to our political control, because this is a loss to all and every inspector in the body. [[Greetings.]] Secondly, tell him that I do not feel sorry, that we will complement him not, that we will complete the agreed resolutions approved in this Parliament: one, that is the call for objections, and, two, that it is the creation of the inspector's body, as the LEC says. And third, and I said, we went against the sentence because it's not firm. And listen to me, and the very insistence that you have with us to complete the mandates would be good if you also had it with the central government, because yesterday, the same day, a sentence came out that gave the ministry that for the time being annulled the application of the thirty-year additional provision, so we made the proposal to the minister, and we're waiting for what. And despite this, if not, I also complete all those feelings of the Constitutional Court, such as, for example, the transfer of scholarships or all the invasions of competitions that are being given. He insists on this government, but he also insists on the Spanish government, which must also complete the sentences that arise from the same court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.59.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about energy poverty]] [[310-00138/11]] Ninth question to the Government, on the poor energy. The question is posed by Mr Jordi Terrades of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.60.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the poor energy, and I suppose it will coincide with me, is a major social problem; it affects half a million people in Catalonia. Each time it's more urgent to look for solutions; solutions you didn't volunteer, counselor. May I ask: "Is there any solution? We think so. But it is necessary the will and political action of the governments, also of the Government of Catalonia, before companies that show no social responsibility. We have a law, 24/2015, which, for what it does to the poor energy, has not been appealed to the Government of the State and, therefore, has not been challenged before the Constitutional Court; a law, however, which does not have regulations. The Socialist Group already anticipated that we would have problems; so much so that on April 20th, we asked a question to Constellera Borràs, who committed herself to carrying this regulation immediately. Six months have passed. We have differing legal interpretations that allow electricians and gas companies to escape in the absence of what the law says. I ask you, counselor, when do you intend to approve this regulation? What decrees do they have planned to force these companies to comply with the law?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.61.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.62.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. MP, you're right; the poor energy is a situation of..., a social problem of the first magnitude. And, therefore, the government what it does is to apply, thread by thread and bit of the letter, what the Law says 24/2015, which is what the Parliament of Catalonia approved.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.63.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mr. Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.64.0	You..., the government will apply the law for good, but the basic sub-administration companies will one day escape after the other. [[Some applause.]] What I'm asking you is that what you have to do to avoid legal interpretations is to approve this regulation and act forcefully with the gas, light, contractors; with water, no, because they have a municipal component that does what they fill, huh? But what you have to do is be blunt, be less complacent with these sub-offices. Because I've been following some of your comments, your pressing wheels, which have done a lot of punishing dispatches. Yes, they've done a lot of punishing dispatches, but there are hundreds of sizes of sub-administration one day after the other. And what his government has to do is be more blunt with these businesses. We ask you again, Counselor, that you are not the pilot of the government and the subcontractors, that you make this regulation so that you interpret this law and that you make it a quick deployment and make the administrators complete. Ah! , and one last petition: that the government is spent all the resources that provide for assumptions so that last year they won't be spent and this year they're still having difficulty because the funds come to local administrations and come to the city to give compliment to what we agreed...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.65.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.66.0	...in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.67.0	...has run out of time. [[Pause.]] Counselor responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.68.0	Mr Miri, Member of Parliament, what the Government of Catalonia does is not to be complacent with the managers, what the Government of Catalonia does is to make the law complete. The proof of this is that 38,857 sizes have been avoided from the families of Catalonia, energy sub-administrations of light, water and gas. This supposes that more than twenty thousand families in this country are not cut either the light, the gas, or the water, in application of this law. Next. Since the month of disembarkation there is a protocol – from the year 2015 – that says how to act. This protocol, some virtuality you have to hold when the electrical companies have resorted to it and they wanted it not to apply. And a judge has not given them the precautionary suspension; therefore, it is in application. And so we have mail and cards and correspondence that are shown by the same subcontractors. Third. We have exhausted the assumption that there was 2015 for the poor energy, of 5_million, yes sir, with an agreement that we signed Catalan Association of Municipalities and Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia, that has allowed the exhaustion of those that there was the year..., in the year 2015. For the year 2016, these resources continue to be available; they have been put into the mainstream social service programme, and are available for meetings and local councils. I for the year 2017 there are 10, of resources; therefore, these resources. And the government, the resources, they put them there. Fourth, you agree. We signed the agreement with the water companies. [[Funnel veils]] – yes, yes – and we want to sign agreements with electricity and gas companies. That's what the law says. We, if the law says we did something to impose or something else to force, would do it; but we're with what the law says. Five, complaints and sanctions. We haven't done it; we haven't done it and we're still doing it. There are two-hundred complaints that have today given notification to fifty-seven sanctions against lighting, gas and water companies. If that's why you're going to be complacent, it seems to me that's not exactly the truth. And we'll start doing proper office inspections on this compliment. And we'll also start dealing with a problem of the social good...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.69.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.70.0	A definition...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.71.0	...has run out of time. [[Rialles.]] I'm having a hard time. [[Question to the President of the Generality about the nine-day dialogue offers for the Government of the State]] [[317-00093/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political and social situation. Asks the question Mrs. Mireia Boya, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.72.0	Good morning, everybody. President, in the last few days we have witnessed the public staging of nine lives; nine lives that go from the mermaid songs of the dial, the fraternal proposals of bilaterality or the doubts about ourselves. For a band, we have Millo Street; Mr. Millo, former bench companion, new government delegate flamingo, and who will be at the side of Mrs. Sáenz de Santamaría's side, which will, it seems, become a subscription to the air bridge. A way of the pastanague dialog, which offers us to talk about everything we want to talk about, and we want to talk about the reference, and which, in parallel, continues with the path of the dialog with the pal: Constitution and judicial cases to give us shots of pal; pal and pastanague, pastanague and pal. We also have the Basque way, that is to agree on autonomy 2.0 to preserve power: four competitions to change assumptions, to segregate the sovereignty for a few more springs or in this supposed freedom to be under the 78 rule bought with thirty coins of silver. And we have the path of tret at a glance, namely to question our forces now that we have the ‘referendum or reference, now that independence has a clear and strong popular mandate, now that we have the 9-N declaration or now that the second authority of this country has been prosecuted. We're neither victims nor we're weak, which no one ever doubted. Before these lives, to assure us that it is not the story of Ulisses and the sirens and that it may be desired without stumbling against the rocks, attractions for his songs, president, we wanted to know how it values these lives, how the government is positioned and what way it will go.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.74.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, ask me for an appreciation of some of the lives that you have exposed. You let him know there's a lot more, too, don't you? There is the third way, which you have not considered, but which no one remembers, because it has entered a water way after the last Spanish legislative elections. I take this opportunity to express to you, tanmateix, absolute respect for the way other communities, concretely the Basque Country, undertake. Respect is absolute, and that, moreover, is shared, because they also express great respect for the decisions taken by this Parliament in Catalonia. So that maybe it's good for some others... or it's not good for some, it can be good for others, and vice versa. Since this respect, let's say that we have been betting for many years, which is the way of the dialog; a way of the dialog offered to the State, which I believe we have won full; not only for the sustained, repeated mobilization of all these years, but for the expressed will to the ballot boxes for most Catalans. But this dialog is true that it was announced, it is true that this dialog was proclaimed, but this dialog did not occur. And, therefore, on this, further away from finding that it has not occurred and that beyond the announcement there has been nothing more, my appreciation continues to feel exactly this: a dialog announcement is not a dialog.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.75.0	Thank you very much, President. There's a word for Miss Boya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.76.0	Okay. For the Constituent CUP, the path is clearly plotted. There are two words: "referendum and process constitute, with all you and you, with all the instruments necessary to advance unilaterally, with the strength of popular mobilization, with the strength of this street that expects everything to be concrete, president. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Why, if we doubt, if we stick to siren songs, if we let the foreign ministers' councils now do our house, if we go to negotiate new autonomous finances, as we show to all the people who voted for us on 27 September that we are determined and that we want to accelerate? With fem to lie to them? President, how and when do we start the campaign to win the yes, to the reference?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.77.0	Thank you, Miss Boya. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.78.0	Thank you. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, I believe that this Parliament approved with a majority to extend a proposal for a reference granted to the State. And this proposal is valid and in force. And this is a proposal that we believe in, and that we work on, and on which we would like very much, but very much, to be able to establish a dialogue with the State; a dialogue that begins with a single condition, and that is that there are no conditions, in which we can speak absolutely of everything, because the way to address the resolution of the majority demand of the people of Catalonia is a dialogue. But this dialog, I insist, is not happening and the gestures they send us do not go in this direction. We will not fail to claim that there is this compromise, but this compromise must be absolutely linked to the recognition of the reality in Catalonia. And this reality is not a reality to deal with in the common rule; the right to be dealt with bilaterally has been won. And in this sense, for the time being, things that have moved – appointments, declarations or failed calls for conferences of presidents –, things in the line of recognition that have happened here in Catalonia have happened things that have not happened to another community.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.79.0	Eleventh question, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation. [[He asked the President of the Generality about the possible illegality of the Generality's assumptions for 2017, about the impossibility of making any reference to independence while the People's Party governments in Spain, and about the dialogue with the Government of the State]] [[317-00094/11]] Formulated for Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.80.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, yesterday the government approved the 2017 budgets. From what we have seen, they have gone from a bad budget to an illegal budget. Looking at the figures, we have come to the conclusion that they want to charge the price of independence to the Catalan middle class. My question, Mr President, is very specific, and is it that, beyond additional provisions, is the President of the Generalitat aware that, as long as he governs the People's Party in Spain, there will be no referendum to break Catalonia from the rest of Spain?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.81.0	Thank you very much, Mr. García. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.82.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, you just supplemented the answer I made to the CUP spokesman, in relation to the dial operation. [[Greetings.]] Why, of course, start already saying that the assumptions are already illegal, man, maybe, that we expect some court – if you have to say so – I decided, right? And, in any case, you..., start already arrogating a political decision that I think would correspond, in any case, to the Government of the State and its President – if it doesn't know how hard it is – to talk at a meeting that I hope we have, I think it's a little hasty. In any case, they ask him to stick more to the facts and less to the proclamations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.83.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.84.0	Mr President, that we are dealing with possible illegal budgets is not the result of a will to manipulate the People's Party of Catalonia, but it is also the result of the vision and recommendations of the lawyers of this very Parliament of Catalonia, when you presented it. [[Greetings.]] So, let's get this over with. The second question is to point out that, based on your arguments, you are causing a train crash. And I want to remind you that your radicalism is causing a decadence of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Please, Mr Puigdemont, do not deny dialogue, do not bet on fracture, division or conflict in Catalonia. Politics, I want to remind you that it is based on the ability to change things. You can, you have the ability to correct mistakes, correct paths and create understanding where there is division and conflict now. Mr Puigdemont, the Government of Spain has moved, is sending signals [[relays]] , don't keep making the statue – don't keep making the statue. And it's more [[remorse of the voice]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.85.0	Please, be quiet. Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.86.0	... make it very clear that, for Catalan society, the real dilemma for Catalans is among those who want to settle definitively in the conflict and those, like us, like the People's Party of Catalonia and as the vast majority of Catalan society, that we bet to overcome it. Can we count on you and your Government? With the current attitude, we don't think so. But we have hope and we want you to take the first step. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.87.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.88.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Congressman, refuse the dialy, never. We repeated it, and I repeated it, and I asked for it and asked for it. You have already introduced the morning of possible illegal assumptions; this morning you did not make it to your first intervention, which has already certified that they were illegal assumptions. Welcome, as the minister did, certainly, of Justice, who today at the press no longer says exactly what he said a few days ago, but just says: "We will see whether these assumptions are going to recur or not. But you also made reference to the casts of this chamber. Well, you do, because I want to remind him that they're not here today. Do you know where they are right now? They are at the High Court of Justice of Catalonia declaring in a lawsuit against the President of the Parliament [[applause]] to have permission that in this Parliament it is dialogue – that in this Parliament it is dialogue. So... Second question. Mr. Albiol, do you know who refused the dial permanently? Do you know who didn't attend the Presidents' Conference? The Spanish government. Because since October 2012 he has refused to convene, as was his responsibility every year, the Conference of Presidents, and for four years the Spanish Government has not attended the Conference of Presidents. Third element. Mr. Albiol... I'm saying why in the, say, messages these signals you see and that at some point for normal channels we don't guess – in any case they have to be for technological systems a little obsolete, smoke or telegraph signals, but in any case, for conventional signals they don't arrive – I'll tell you the following: do we agree or not that what has happened in Catalonia since the last conference of autonomous presidents until now has changed substantially? Do you know that the President of the Generality who went to that Conference of Presidents was entitled to a parliament in Catalonia in which there were only fourteen independent MPs, who certainly voted against his investiture, and today there are seventy-two independent MPs, most of whom voted in favour of this President? Do you know that this marks an abysmal difference between the conventional format of the presidents' conferences and what should be produced now, that it is a bilateral state policy dialogue between Catalonia and Spain? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.89.0	Dotzena question, to the President of the Generalitat. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the government's effort to force basic service sub-ministrative companies to assume their social responsibilities]] [[317-00097/11]] Formulated for Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.90.0	Thank you, President, honorable. Look, it's a theme that's come out, but, also, we think it's a country issue and that we need to insist on it. A few days ago the Catalan public opinion was struck – I had everything present – by the events, by the events of Reus, by the death of this means that he died, therefore, in a domestic fire as a result of the situation he was living, a kind of sub-administration. In that case, this has put into replete, as was said before, the attitude of, above all, the great electrical sub-ministring companies, which take away their responsibilities and the responsibilities that mark them the law. My concrete question is this: do you consider that your government is really doing everything it needs to build, to force these companies to take over and face their social responsibilities?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.91.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.92.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, frankly, yes: this government is doing everything in its hand, in its abst, to build all the managing companies to complete with what we believe should not only be a legal responsibility, but it should also be a social responsibility. They believe that, in this sense, the Government of Catalonia is committed to the efforts made by other administrations, beginning with the most important assembly, the capital of the country, in order to finally get the energy sub-administering companies to join in the effort, I would say, 'unanimous, that, say, all the institutions of this country are dedicated to trying to protect the most vulnerable communities in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.93.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.94.0	Yes; thank you very much. Let's see, so much good is going on, and count on our support in this effort. Tanmateix, I need to reschedule some things. We do not doubt..., rather, we emphasize the enormous responsibility of these sub-ministrative companies and the lack of sensitivity they have shown and the willingness to take away their responsibilities. It means that the arguments they make are not rejected: when they argue that the protocol is not clear, the current protocol, even though it has been brought before the courts, has not been suspiciously, therefore it is valid; and here are excuses for the wrong payer or the wrong deputy, if I may express it in this case. So, it's true that we can't leave them to these companies. In March, in the Social Emergencies Plenary, we collectively adopted a resolution calling on the Government to quickly implement the energy poverty law. By June, the director of the consumer office acknowledged that this regulation had not yet been completed. The question we ask you is: listen, let's mobilize, let's move, because there is a cry from civil society, from social entities... When and how do you plan to mobilize all this effort from Catalan society to get to the signature of agreements that oblige the sub-administrative companies to comply with the law and to face a social tariff?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.95.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.96.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. Of course, the protocol is clear. Of course, there is no protocol. What happens is that you actually described it very well: in the end, to force them..., we don't have the tool to force them. You have to negotiate, and you have unequal sensitivities. And you're there now, when you're president, and I'm sure those who are or have been mayors have found themselves when they've been in charge of a responsibility. So that's what we need to get through. We, on the assumption that the Vice-President presented yesterday to the Parliament of Catalonia, have already foreseen... – and Councillor Baiget referred to it before, in his answer, and Councillor Borràs surely, therefore, could also extend what refers to housing parties, we have clear solutions because, in the event that there is the right will on the part of the subcontractors, there is no failure to follow the public resources envisaged to give coverage and response to this will. And here we all have to stop. I think we would do well – and I thank him for all his intervention – to try to see who is the maximum beneficiary, who is the greatest public interest, which is the vulnerable city. That he doesn't have the right protection, that's right. And you don't have it, not because there's no political consensus; I insist, I think all groups here are for the same. Not even discrepancies between institutions. I think we're working together, and more importantly, in a very coordinated way, that I think the city is worth a lot. And I want to take advantage of the various efforts of the local world, in the sum of their efforts with the government, to try to create precisely a coordinated response that gives hope to the most vulnerable collectius. But we're missing an element of the equation. And we don't even have the strength of restraint because these deputy companies – certainly not all, fortunately, not all – put on their side what it would be, not legal, that it possessed, what it would be just and decent that it possessed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.97.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the presence of the Government at the meeting of the Council for Fiscal Policy and Finance of the Autonomous Communities and about the convenience of the use of the multilateral way for the dialogue with the Government of the State]] [[317-00095/11]] Tretzena asks the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.98.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Many honourable President of the Generality, at the last session of control I asked him if he was planning to go to the meeting of the Conference of Presidents, when she was summoned, and he told me no, that this was rancid autonomy. And I reminded him: « Listen, you do not only represent the independenceists, you also represent the majority who did not vote for independent options, who pay their taxes, who expect you to defend all their interests, and particularly with the institutions to which you belong or are invited. Today, in turn, I want to congratulate you, because we have learned that the Government has decided to be present at the meeting of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, and I do not mean that we are happy. The vice president is going to defend the generality's financial margin, he's going to defend a expense relief, the modulation of the deficit reduction effort, and that's all when we win. And, besides, he knows that he will find support, some known – those of the Valencian Generalitat or the Government of the Balearic Islands –, other autonomous communities that also have this interest. And my question, which, in fi, is intentional, naturally [[remorse of the voice]] ... don't you think, president, that this is the way? Don't you think that this should always be the line of conduct of the government, to advance the interests of the country, to claim with institutions to fall multilateral...? With the benevolence that this does not mean neglecting bilateral relations when it touches, when it corresponds and when it is useful.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.99.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.100.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, I appreciate the attack of sincerity saying that it was an interested question... Miri, they asked Councilwoman Ruiz for her participation in the council, let's say, of..., the lecture of education, of teaching. I think he has described some very clear results, which precisely – precisely – if anything confirms is that in these spaces, of margin, there is only a few: it is that there is zero, and still counting, as he has also recognized, with the support of some communities – not of the People's Party –, significantly the governments for the Socialist Party. So the reality is that. Secondly, it is clear that we are going to the Tax and Finance Policy Council, and other sectoral conferences, and, of course, to the technical ones. Moreover, the councillors intend to ask each of the ministers for an hour to deal with bilateral matters, of course they do. It's more, we know, at least, that even though we all agree, all the autonomous communities – all of us, huh? , governing the Socialist Party or the People's Party – it would serve no purpose, because the definite vote..., which has 50_percent of the votes is Mr Montoro. Therefore, all this effort, which everyone knows, that with all the good will of the world and with all the consent of the world, can come, as has happened in previous cases, to have no concrete result, despite the fact that there has been a broad consensus or almost unanimous agreement between the different autonomous communities.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.101.0	Thank you very much, President. There's a word from Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.102.0	Let us go, therefore, to the other side, because you are right: without the Government of Spain, without its complicity, its participation, therefore, it is not possible to advance. Today, in the session of control at the Congress of Deputies, my colleague Meritxell Batet asked the Vice-President of the Government, and asked that from the gestures to the fact, from the statements, from the intentions, to the fact. But this requires not only this will of the Government of Spain, but also from here we do things right. From this point of view, there is a discrepancy between us and you that I do not want to hide: you still think that a unilateral path is possible, you think that jumping the law or avoiding it is possible; we believe that it is not. And we were very concerned, and I want to tell you, yesterday when a Catalan newspaper headlined: "Junqueras will manage the hidden game of the referendum. Clearly, when a hidden game appears on the cover of a diary, it doesn't have to be so hidden. [[Rialles.]] And I have to tell you... [[Funnel veils]] No, but I was saying... No, it's not suspicious, the diary, huh? But it seems to me two years ago that it was – yes, two years, almost every day – his predecessor said: "We have to deceive the State. It was also a deceptive announcement that he didn't... I don't think he did. And that's why I wanted to tell you, President, that it's true that I don't doubt your willingness to dialogue...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.103.0	Mr. Iceta, I know very hard, but he's spent a lot of time. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.104.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Iceta, you referred to the intervention that your colleague Meritxell Batet made at the Congress of Deputies. I could give him back what he will do, if he hasn't already done it, ours... the representative of the PDECat, Mr Quico Homs, who will, precisely, test out the real dialing vow announced for the Government of the State, because we are very afraid that it will be in an announcement. What we have to ask ourselves is, when we see it's an announcement, what are we going to do? Miri, today, I think, thirty-two years ago, Joan Vinyols died. Joan Vinyols, quoting Rilke, who was one of his inspirations, said a phrase applied to poetry that I think can be applied to politics, says: "Poetry is not a matter of feelings, but of experience. So, miri, politics too. And you know what he's saying, experience? That the conferences of presidents have not served for nothing; that for four years they have not called themselves, captain; that there has not been any attempt, nor so alone, to know what order of the day there was to be. They ask us to go to a conference where we don't know the order of the day. Now we know he won't do it now, but they've already passed him to the genera – see if he'll be at the fever later – but to go and do what, exactly? Blindly, the experience, which is exactly what Vinyols said, recommends that we remain very cautious. And I think you're probably here and I'm thinking the same thing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.105.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the suitability of the Generalitat's assumptions for 2017 in order to face the situation of social emergence in Catalonia]] [[317-00092/11]] Fourteen questions, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mrs Inés Arrimadas, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.106.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, in Catalonia we have more than 300 thousand people who are still in long-term unemployment, 1 million and half households who suffer material deprivation and, for example, we still have almost 20 percent of poverty. Yesterday you presented the budgets of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Do you think these are good budgets for the social emergency we have in Catalonia? What reasons make you think that these are the best budgets you could present? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.107.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.108.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, I believe that the Vice-President yesterday expressed it very clearly: these are good assumptions, we are proud of it, because, if not, we would not introduce them. They're the best possible assumptions, obviously. Now, are these the assumptions that we would need to, say, be able to get out much faster and more simply of the devastating consequences of the crisis? No, no, Don't put it away. This is why we are struggling to be superior to the resources and wealth generated by the effort of the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans. That's why we're fighting, exactly. If you ask me: "Do you think these are the ideal assumptions for the country? Of course not!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.109.0	Thank you very much, President. I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.110.0	Mr President, you are more likely to complain about a lack of resources here in Parliament than at the Conference of Presidents. There, when you have the rest of the autonomous communities, there you don't look as loose as you see yourself in Parliament asking for more money. But it is not about asking for more money, we absolutely agree that the funding system needs to be reformed, and it is clear that we too want it to be a much fairer funding system. But it's also about how we spend the money we already have in Catalonia. And, look, the budgets clearly show what the government's priorities are. And what has been seen in these budgets is that you prioritize two things. First, his obsession with trying to get Catalonia out of the rest of Spain and the rest of Europe ; and, second, his attempt to please the members of the CUP. But what is clear is that they are not thinking of 7_million_and_half Catalans and their problems. When they say that these are social budgets they mean that they are the budgets of their partners, of the gentlemen of the CUP. Because these budgets have more taxes for Catalans, more chiringuites for politicians, more structures for independence and, of course, a supposedly hidden item, which comes out on the front pages of the newspapers, which is, no more or less than to repeat the 9-N and that the Members of Parliament themselves are already aware that this, of course, cannot be approved. It is clear that they are not the best possible budgets for Catalans. And they are not because maintaining the highest number of high-ranking positions in all the autonomous communities while taxes and fees are raised again to the self-employed and families, they are not good budgets. You can't raise your own wealth money any more than you can raise your waiting lists, Mr President. You can't be good when you go up more Mr. Romeva's apartment than the Catalan schools' dining grants. You can't be good when you're saying that at least you plan an expense to repeat the 9-N of 6_million_of_euros and with that you could pay 24,000 books, 24,000 children who had free books at school. We have shown that we are a responsible opposition; those who ask for impossible are others, but what we ask is not that they are impossible budgets, but that they are sensible budgets. And you long ago – long ago – that sny català lost it along the way. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.111.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.112.0	Thank you very much. I see that you have the machine to distribute notebooks from which you have no sign and which you have no sign in Catalonia and that you divide Catalans between good Catalans, which are you, they are the ones who have the sign, which must be you, and the bad Catalans, who are the other... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But if you just said so, that's what you said we lost the sign! Therefore, I ask you to be a little more moderate to marry speeches with fetuses. Because you want to go of moderate force, but here, when you want to disqualify the opponent, they say that you are an outcast, that you mount "siringuits, when this is possible to debate politically and to disagree ideologically. I'll tell you something to clarify exactly the fair measure of your obsessions. You are obsessed with 0,02_per_cent of the assumption– 0,02_per_cent–, which is exactly what you expect to weigh the money you want to consult in this country: 0,02_per_cent, this is your obsession, it's the one that stuffs in press wheels... [[applause]] , diary pages... – 0.02_per_cent. Okay. They have the right—they have the right. Let us deal with this more than 74 per cent of social spending that the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia have. We are more interested in discussing this 75_per_cent, almost, of social expenditure than the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia. You, who are so influential now in Madrid, because you made an agreement... ; an agreement, certainly, that, from the financing system, names give it a ratella: « It has to be reviewed. Oh, yeah, all right, and in what direction? I'll tell you something very practical – I'll tell you something very practical – because I can put it in practice at the Conference of Presidents... [[Funnel veils]] – Ah, that you will not be there, it is true – but I tell Mr Rajoy that with his votes..., with his votes... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You won't be there, so we'll be the same, see? [[Rialles.]] Miri, one thing... - one thing. You do one thing: ask Mr. Rajoy, it's impossible, that you increase a tenth more the deficit you're planning to attach to the autonomous communities: one. Do you know that we're going to pick up one tenth more? One? Dos-cents_twenty-million euros. Does that sound a little bit like it? So, look, this is more than what we collect with all the fiscal effort we put into these assumptions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.113.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the Government's opinion on the dialogue campaign launched by the Government of the State]] [[317-00096/11]] Fifteenth question to the President of the Generality on the latest political developments. The question is posed by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.114.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, as has been said here, a few weeks ago we are witnessing an advertising campaign in the style of that memorable 'Plan Pond's', beauty in fifteen days, called 'operation dialogue'. A campaign, however, that did not accompany any fact that ended up demonstrating a real change of attitude from the State to Catalonia. For us, for Junts per el Si, in operations accounts dialog, strictly, we believe that you should be told monoleg operation. They can only talk about what they want, what they can talk about and what they can't talk about, and, above all, they told us that from what millions of Catalans have mobilized and voted millions of Catalans cannot vote. But if, more than that, in this campaign it is necessary for you to know them, so the results are still more devastating. This dial-monastic campaign coincides in time, since it began, as you mentioned today, in which, for example, today there are speakers from the Catalonian Parliament who are to declare, therefore, for a lawsuit against the President of the Parliament pushed for this central government. Or it also coincides, this operation-dialeg, with the fact of voting in favor of a supplicator and sending to court, therefore, Mr. Francesc Homs to put the ballot boxes. Or this campaign also coincides, therefore, to suspend Judge Vidal because it is seen that you can collaborate with FAES and be a magistrate, but you cannot be a magistrate and work with the independence cause. Or it coincides, this campaign, therefore, to reject the teaching counselor's petition because it is no longer enough to finance and subsidize those pairs that can help weaken linguistic immersion. There is no novelty in the facts, but there is no novelty either, so with this constant attitude of resorting to and suspending the activity of this Parliament, it is already a matter of commercial timetables, it is already a matter of equality between men and women, it is a matter of creation of our taxes, it is a matter of protection of animals, it is a matter of housing emergence, it is a matter of energy poverty... It is not really a matter of management, nor of my guilt in all stages of rolling, etcetera, is it not? It's all about the dial, the monologue. Our impression, President, is that they continue to shoot at Catalonia; they do so with silencer, but they continue to shoot at Catalonia. That's why we, the president, want to ask him what opinion he deserves from the government this campaign that they call "dialeg", but for us it's the monologue campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.115.0	Thank you, Mr. Turull. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.116.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Turull, before I have answered, I believe, in a very precise way and your question gives me the opportunity to do so in a more extensive way. We, all that's left is a table for dialogue, not just with ourselves, we claim it. And I think, I insist, we won the right. The one who votes in this country, the one who makes this country in the last four, five years, has not voted for another autonomous community, does not go to another autonomous community, targeted in the key of the State. The one who passes to Catalonia..., we know perfectly well, the one who passes to Catalonia does not pass to any other place. Therefore, I believe that we have rightly won the right to be recognized in a way that is absolutely different from how we recognize the realities that are moving to the common system, which they say. If this doesn't come from here, it means that there is no desire for dialogue; there is a desire to dilute, there is a desire to mask what is going on, to try to confuse public opinion so as not to take on courage, responsibility and courage, which is what we claim, that different things happen here that require different solutions. Common solutions to a different problem don't work, and you know it. Therefore, those who want to dialogue must begin to recognize this reality. And, from the recognition, that it is a recognition that must be based on respect and respect for democratic options, even though they are radically opposed to what you defend, respect..., from here you have to make gestures. And the first gesture to do is to say: "I want to dialogue with the only condition and it is that there are no conditions. Neither do we – nor do we – have to pose as the only condition that they give up their idea..., no, no; each one has to go with their conditions, because, if not, there is no dialog; if not, there are monologues or dialogs in separate months. We've been sitting at a dialog table for years, waiting for someone to be seated. There's no one in the other band yet. Maybe they've sat in some table? We don't know, but they have to be alone. The table where we want to talk is the table which is based on which this country has won to speak, and which this Parliament has also ratified by a very large majority in the course of the general policy debate. That's the scheme. Running away from this scheme is one more episode – one more episode – of a propaganda operation. And that, as I used to quote Vinyoli, which Rilke quoted, no longer serves. We are not here for more than to make possible what the citizens of Catalonia have entrusted to us and which this Parliament has ratified with their vote. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.117.0	Thank you, President. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the occasion of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women]] [[401-00016/11]] After the control session, we will now proceed to read the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. "With the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Donors motivating, which is celebrated on 25 November, the Parliament of Catalonia wants to demonstrate once more the rebuff of male violence. At the beginning of this century, the news about the feminicides of Ciudad Juárez made the turn of the world. The killing of women in that city in northern Mexico did not go unnoticed in Catalonia: feminist associations, social organizations and cooperation institutions supported human rights activists and victims' families who demanded justice and denounced a barbarism silenced for the Mexican State. At that time the word "feminicides" was strange and llunian, alien to a reality that was conceived as one of the southern countries. We had to spend years to change our gaze and pose it in our daily reality. Then, however, it seemed that it was not possible to synchronize the use of the terms "gender violence" and "femicide". At the beginning of this decade, the use of the term feminicides has already begun to be introduced in some sectors of the feminist movement. It is important to place the time when a particular political subject approaches terms that represent a change of focus or social mentality, since it gives it the power to address that political subject and does not reinforce the demands. The fight against feminicide has been accompanied by demands for global actions that address the phenomenon of rape against women in the framework of patriarchal societies. Not one more death is the compromise that civil society claims with the struggle against male violence and in defense of the rights of women as human rights, and it is the compromise that all public institutions must express and materialize. That is why the Catalonian Parliament wants to declare that it recognizes the term feminicide as the agglutinating concept of forms of gender-based violence that end in the killing of women and that it will continue to place emphasis on public policies and social awareness actions aimed at preventing all gender-based violence. Palau del Parlament, November 30, 2016. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Member's compatibility status]] [[234-00149/11]] The second point of the order of the day is: a Member's compatibility situation. The second secretary, Mr David Pérez, will read out the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of the Deputies, which has also been published in the plenary's file. I pray to the secretary I second that you do the reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.118.0	Thank you, President. « Compatibility or incompatibility situation of a Member. Opinion of the Committee on the Statute of the European Parliament. The Commission of the Statute of the Deputies, in its plenary session on 15 November 2016, agreed to establish the following opinion. After examining the data declared for the Member Carles Riera Albert relating to the professional, labour or business activities he carries out and the public authorities he occupies, and in addition to Article 23.1b of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission shall, taking into account the legislation applicable in the matter of incompatibility of the Members and in accordance with Article 18.2 of the Rules of Procedure, propose to the plenary the compatibility situation of the Member Carles Riera Albert. Palau del Parlament, November 15, 2016. The secretary in charge of the commission, Maria Senserrich, and the chairman of the commission, Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.119.0	Thank you, secretaries. Can this opinion be considered approved by consent? [[Pause.]] If there are no objections, the opinion shall be adopted. [[Prolongation Law Project of Pla Serra Húnter]] [[200-00013/11]] Let's get to the next point of the order of the day. The third item on the agenda is the proposal for a single reading of the Pla Serra Húnter Law Project. In accordance with Rule 135 of the Rules of Procedure and the Government's proposal, processing for a single reading was requested. It is therefore proposed to the Ple de la Cambra that the bill be read in one reading. Next, we will vote for the single reading of the Pla Serra Húnter Prolongation Bill. I am calling for a vote, even though I do not think it will be necessary, that now there are all the Members. [[Pause.]] So, the vote begins. The proposal for a single reading of the Pla Serra Húnter Prolongation Bill was approved by 72 votes to 8, with 48 abstentions. As a single reading has been given, we will now proceed to the debate in agreement with the standards set for the totality and, at the same time, the bill will be submitted to a single vote. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative is presented on behalf of the Government of the Generality, Mr. Jordi Baiget, Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge. [[Widow's remorse.]] Ask them to leave in a hurry, please; because, if not, they cannot begin. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.120.0	All right. Thank you, Madam President. Counsel, Members of Parliament, Director General of Universities, Director of the Serra Húnter programme, appear to make the presentation of the Law Project of the Pla Serra Húnter extension. And before you get into the detail of this bill, let me just make a brief look at the antecedents of this plan; why, what is the Pla Serra Húnter? It is the realization of a proposal that was approved by the Parliament of Catalonia in 2003 to promote nine permanent contractual teachers. Therefore, Pla Serra Húnter is a program of promotion, voluntary character, involving Catalan universities through convenient, according to their autonomy, and currently all Catalan public universities offer contracts in the case of this plan. Pla Serra Húnter represents one more way in the policy of hiring teaching and research staff of the Catalan public universities. There are many ways of contracting: there is the official way, there is the working way promoted by Spanish legislation, there is a working way promoted by the Law of Universities of Catalonia and there is also, within this way, a part that is subsidized and a part that is not. The share that is enhanced is the share that corresponds to the Serra Húnter program. The Serra Húnter program, the results indicate that, of all these possible access lives, of the more than two thousand permanent teaching research staff who have joined the system since 2003, only 25_per_cent– is to say, one_of_each_four– has done so via the Serra Húnter program. The remaining 75, three_of_each_four, have done most of it through official channels and with contests. The plan begins, in a first phase, the year 2003 until the year 2011, with the aim of incorporating and promoting the new permanent contract teachers who had been created with the Law of Universities of Catalonia. And this plan, as I said, represents one more way in the policy of hiring teaching staff and researchers from the Catalan public universities, but with a significant difference in respect of their functioning. Let us remember that, in 2003, only the title of doctor was needed to be functioning; in change, to access the Pla Serra Húnter, the candidates had to have, as a minimum and basic curriculum indicator, the accreditation of the Quality Agency of the University System of Catalonia. At this time, 577 permanent professors, 545 aggregates and 32 contracted professors, including 180 at the University of Barcelona, 137 at the Autonomous University, 100 at the Polytechnic University, 34 at the Pompeu Fabra University, 37 at the University of Girona, 43 at the University of Lleida and 38 at the University of Rovira i Virgili. Since the year 2007 and the approval, by the Government of the State, of the Royal Decree 1312/2007, the Spanish Government has created the accreditations of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency for a functioning faculty. From this moment on, the differences between contractual and official figures are reduced. For this reason, from the year 2011, the plan is redefined jointly with universities. In this second phase of the Pla Serra Húnter, a new objective is incorporated: to convert it into a tool for capturing and retaining academic excellence, both of teaching and research, from capturing and retaining talent as close as possible to the outside. The accreditation of the ACUP ensured that the teachers had a minimum level, but they wanted to go there, not only requiring a minimum level: they wanted to hire the best teachers. In the first year of this new stage it was contracted sixty-six staff teaching permanent researcher, already aggregates or professors contracted or readers, in the mark of the pla, also distributed to all universities. To these data, it will be necessary to add to it the results of the contests started in the year 2015 and the ones that took place during the year 2016. It is worth noting the years of presuppositionary restrictions in which the Government of the State has interfered, limiting the repositioning rate for the teaching staff and permanent researcher of each university and, therefore, interfering, to a certain extent, with university autonomy. To hear us, these limitations do not allow or have not allowed the encouragement of retirements, the promotion of teaching staff researchers with permanent character and the outsourcing of this teaching staff and researcher. We've lost three years to not have a proper repositioning rate for this path. That is why it is necessary not to waste any more time, now that we are already in a position to cover this repositioning fee. But before I justify why it is important for universities and at academic level to approve this extension, I want to do this to the timing of the program that marks the extension that we should approve today with this bill of law. The current calls are two: the first, corresponding to the year 2015, almost resolved, and the second, the call has already been made and advertised to all levels, and is planned because it is made the public offer in the long term of the first quarter of 2017. Moreover, in the case of the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia it was agreed that there will be two annual calls, the month of generation and the month of June of each year. In the talks with the different parliamentary groups, it was clear that the duration initially attributed to the extension, which was until 2030, could be more than necessary. In this sense, the Government is committed to introducing a clause in the draft accompanying law with the strict intention of setting a new term for the most important plan, so that the plan will be limited until 2020. In this way, we respond to the petitions of parliamentary groups, and, moreover, this reduction will not imply any alteration in the functioning of the program, which for another band will have to be reviewed jointly with the universities that participate in it to give better compliment to their objectives and petitions. Therefore, this proposal for a debate we commit ourselves to introducing into the draft law as soon as we have..., and as quickly as possible. If we focus, then, on the objectives and the reasons for this extension, who are serious? The Pla Serra Húnter must therefore continue to ensure the incorporation into Catalan public universities of highly-qualified and internationally-certified teachers, who, by and large, are more than 90_percent of this teacher contracted through the Serra Húnter programme is Catalan. It can be from inside or it can be from outside, that you have come for capture and retention of talent. In addition, the Serra Húnter programme has an impact on the selection of the faculty in order to advance to a structure with a higher quality and more flexible teaching. And Pla Serra Húnter is part of the new model of academic staff emerging from the Law of Universities of Catalonia promoted by the Government of the Generality to strengthen the social openness and internationalization of Catalan universities. This plaque fully respects the autonomy of the universities, which have no obligation to offer places through the Pla Serra Húnter. I, in fact, don't offer mostly out of the way. In fact, only 25_percent of the externalisations that took place in the period 2005-2015 have been made through this plan. In addition, some universities, such as Vic's, have adopted Pla Serra Húnter's methodology, and some public universities have also chosen to offer places through the platform even though they were not co-financed. Certainly, this plan offers economic incentives because universities participate in it, but they are not so large that they actually force universities to participate in it because of economic need. The annual budget of Pla Serra Húnter to co-finance nine places amounts to only 1.7_percent of the total expenditure on teaching staff and general investigator of Catalan public universities. The plan is not important for the money it brings to the universities, but for its methodology and the quality of the faculty it helps to recruit. For this reason, the plan we believe is an instrument more for the service of universities, with the ultimate objective of consolidating Catalonia as the knowledge pole of southern Europe. And, finally, it should be noted that the only automatic effect of the prorogation of the plan is that universities will continue to recover 50_percent of the cost of teachers Serra Húnter who have contracted so far. The opening of the nine calls of the plan is not automatic. No new call could be made without the agreement and participation of Catalan universities via the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia. And these are the reasons, ladies and gentlemen, for which we subdue this bill to your consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.121.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Next, to fix his position, has the word Mr Joan García, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.122.0	Members, Members, Mr Baiget, ask us today the Government to position ourselves on the Prolongation Bill Project of Pla Serra Húnter. And in the door again, and that's a little criticism we want to make of the bill, in one reading. One more. Perhaps in this case with better justification, but even though this justification may be more or less uncertain, we do want to comment before we begin to believe that as it was born and increased this project we might be able to talk more about a hit study, right? , with his surrealistic stories..., behind a bill like that. But besides how it was born and how we got here, I also think that with this position the government is asking us to position ourselves on more things, on universities, and I think today is a good time to take advantage of and do it. He invites us to expose what paper we want to give to the university to our society and what kind of university we want, and from this model we want to give to talent and excellence. We see that these last few days have been talked about at the national level of education and the need to build, from our point of view, a national pact for education where the different forces that the ability to govern Spain may have in the future can be combined. This is, in essence, one of the proposals that we have defended as we went to build a new space for all of Spain to change, and we believe that – as this change has other pacts – it is what we can build today to know what our future will be. We firmly believe that the university model must be very attached to this pact, to this way of thinking, because we think that the university must be part of a large cross-sectional chain of knowledge. And we are convinced that the debate must face up to all of Spain, and especially Catalonia, and from the consensus and agreement, important concepts that today we believe we need to put in value at the time of defining what we will vote for. We defend a global knowledge system that has to begin the first years of education and that has to build direct bridges with the reality of our product model to make it change and transform it. We believe in a system of knowledge that is a tractor of a company that has to walk towards another formula of rich creation. And this will be a system formed by horizontal structures, where everything is connected and where concepts such as collaboration between equals, the known peer-to-peer, are more present than ever. This is the first step towards a formula where precisely the transfer of knowledge, together with the technological transfer, will be able to promote social, cultural and economic innovation, a transfer that will be the engine of development of concepts that are already being implemented today, such as the value chains to the new industrial policy, the circular economy or the objectives that Europeans have set for us in energy transition. It is, therefore, the university, a more desired piece of this gear, a very important piece driven by preservation and the impulse of its capacity for autonomy and coordinated through a necessary, we believe, new model of governance. These are changes that we think should be directed to return trust in the university and the university itself, a confidence that seems to have been lost, even though it is, the university, and that is what we must say, one of the best institutions valued for Catalans, according to the same CEO. Many times the university has confided..., university with a certain, that is true and we have to say, university endogam, an excess of the gaze..., or at the inward gaze mass valid to the Catalan university system, and also Spanishol, which greatly hinders the doctrinal mobility and search between university centers, and therefore the interchant of much valuable experiences, a situation that extends teachers and researchers to have a curriculum, both lectual and doctrinal and search, to different universities, a fact that moves us away from the more flexible university reality of other countries of reference, that have staff with more doctrinal secrets to the passport. We believe that maintaining this situation is not the object of a knowledge system that wants to take on the challenge of globalisation. To build a new model we have tools, but we can't implement them if we can't change the contracting structure, which is conditioned to concepts, and this has already been mentioned, as the repositioning rate, which does not allow us, in fact, to stabilize the contracting staff of our universities. And, obviously, we can't do it if we don't do it on the basis of principles such as retention and capturing excellence and talent. We believe that in order to achieve these objectives, programs such as Serra Húnter have remained in place, a program that has remained in place since 2003 – you have not made all of a chronological view – with a certain political consensus, but also with certain model changes; a program that has put in value the profile of a PhD researcher with an internationally acceptable experience, but in which we also believe that the time has come to renew the political consensus and adapt it to a new situation, extended from earlier stages implemented in socioeconomic situations may be different from what we have or are beginning to have at present. In fact, we believe that the time has surely come to reflect on different vital aspects of universities, of what we have also talked about at other times, such as finance, the model of scholarships, where we believe that they can be modified and expanded by trams, and extend them to masters, or the excessive burden on the families they assume, as well as scholarships, university fees. It was also time to make clear the contract structure to the university and give answers to some criticisms, also legitimate, and reasonable doubts that existed about the Pla Serra Húnter, as we believe clear interference in the university autonomy that could be exercised by his concert and the complicated bureaucratic structure with which the plan is managed and which ends up delaying the incorporations. It is for this reason that when this bill came to us in the summer – it appeared as a proposal made for the council – we needed to know that the extension proposed to us was excessive. We warned that this proposal would not have our support as the main opposition party, but that certainly not the tenor of the rest of the opposition, and in the end it proved to be so. After that moment, we do appreciate, perhaps, that tipping point, a change in predisposition, and we give thanks both to the councillor and to Mr Navarro, who is not here today but has also worked, and to the secretary of universities, to try to find a common agreement and accept that, we believe, mistake of calculation. After his intervention, as he has said..., and the changes he has proposed to us, and accepting the modification of the extension until 2020, and opening what we think must be a dialog process to adapt the reality and model of the Serra Hunter to the current and the changes that there are, we believe we can vote yes, and so we will do, to this law. We will vote in favour because this door to collaboration has been opened, because we see it possible to implement our university model in Catalonia through this change and this open path, because we hope to take advantage of these synergies that bring us..., and that we can build to implement a good part of this to the rest of Spain and because we hope to put a new stone in our system of knowledge, a building that has to house the new economic, social and cultural, Catalan, Spanish and European society, of the own decades. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.123.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.124.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Members, Members, Councillor, well, so today the government is bringing us, finally, the law on the extension of the Serra Húnter programme, and saying, finally, because many days and weeks ago it was pending that you entered the order of the day of an ordinary ple. Actually, that's why we abstained. And I would like to explain this: we have abstained, precisely, because it seemed to us that if there was such an urgency to approve this law, and what is it, urgency, because there is a funding for the plan that at these times is already coming to an end, and it must also be for the next few years, so it surprised us or surprised us that it never came to the order of Parliament's plenary day, and therefore the government did not have to speed this up. In any case, today we can debate it, and I think I must also appreciate here, so, the certain predisposition of the counselor, also of the Secretary General of Universities, Mr Navarro, and also of Josep Pallarès, of the Director of Universities, well, to have a certain waist in relation to what we are today. Because it is certain that we will end up approving this law because it advances in the approval of the Pla Serra Hunter, and in its financing, that it is basically the one that approves the law, the financing for the very years of the Serra Hunter, but it also means that the proposal that the Government brings to the extension until 2030. We, and the Councillor said today, and that is the guarantee that will change... because one of the commitments that we have made in this House, in an approved motion, so a few weeks ago, and that was presented by the Socialist Group, was to avoid this extension until 2030, that we were trying to get it out of 2020, and above all, and most importantly, that we were able to review this plan and so modify what we thought was appropriate. And not because we, from the Socialist Group alone, have said so, but because we have seen in the field of the Catalan university system that they say that we need to review, that we need to listen, that we need to improve, that we need to humbly improve, some things that may not have just worked or are not working very well from this programme. Therefore, what we will do with the approval of this law is, with a note, as the counselor said, in a statement to the bill of measures, to reduce this extension of funding that allows us to review this program, not only with the advisor council that has this same plan and with the Government of the Generality, but also with the universities. We think that universities should also say their own, they should say how it's working; if it works..., if some things are to be changed so that this program, therefore, continues to move forward. Miri, Mr. Navarro has said on quite a few occasions that this program they claim is the capture of international talent and avoid a certain university endogamia. We'd agree with the first part. It's true, we have to capture international talent and we have to try to get the best, which doesn't mean that the best... and that a lot of good we've got here, obviously, huh? And it is true that some contract, part of the contract that is made for the Serra Húnter is, say, people here, Catalans and Catalans, but it is true that it is also a certain internationalization, in the end, to promote the mobility of some and others, right? With the subject or with your criticism of the endogamy we could have more or less discussion. I don't think he's probably quite sure, but it's true that at the end of the day, right? , because you generate a certain mobility in the international arena. What we say in this sense is that if we subs, condition them and the support we offer from the Catalan universities are not the best, we cannot have the best, with Serra Húnter or without Serra Húnter. So here, what we have to try is that the salaries, the working conditions, the support we give to the search for our faculty are the best because they can come the best, whether Catalan, German, American or Swedish. And this is definitely one of the setbacks we have at this time. And then we have to realize that, sometimes, according to what we say, it didn't seem like a minus to the teacher who's here, who's here precariously, who's been there for a few years, who's made important efforts to train, to search, to improve his teaching, and who's still precarious. And, therefore, in this sense we also need to go with account and see how we can improve this part as well. Therefore, before, yes, with the contracting of the best, with the contracting of talent, of excellence, also international, but we also have to go with the weaknesses that this program entails. I'll just quote three of them. One, a certain..., a certain..., is true, a certain loss of university autonomy, with this program. The counselor said no, but we think so. The fact that is financed 50_percent of the program..., and you say: "Well, it's 50_percent. Yes, of course; it is that universities have suffered so much in recent years, they have had so little funding, they have used the Serra Húnter to contract. So, somehow they've been forced, too, to join this program. I'm not saying it was done without sharing, am I? , the objective of the Serra Húnder, but in the end, the lack of funding to public universities of the past years has also made it possible to develop this program. The Generality, as I say, finances 50_per_cent, appoints part of the court, fixes the calendar, fixes some contents, marks some criteria for valuation... That is, there is a certain intrusion. The policy of the faculty should be of the same university, it should be of its autonomy. And the fact that this program marks, fixes and establishes so many elements seems to me that, obviously, clearly connects with this principle of university autonomy. And we could ask ourselves: what is it that we distrust the Catalan universities, the Catalan universities that are in such good positions in the regions that we constantly comment on? I'm sure you don't. So, we need to see, so, like... I think this program ends up adjusting to this reality. Moreover, you know, counselor, and you know, that in 2015 the University of Barcelona and other universities signed a code of conduct for the contracting of investigators and representing requirements for international appeal and foreign participation. So, already, many already set these international criteria in contracts that develop internally, apart from the Serra Húnter program. Therefore, the first weakened: the loss of university autonomy. The second weakened: this, I said, certainly less to this precarious teacher, because it widens his precariousness; it widens him because, in the end, as we only contract for Serra Húnter, therefore, ends up widening his precariousness. And we find ourselves a 40-year-old teacher, who takes many years to college, who's trained, who's accredited to independent agencies, like the Year or the AQU, and turns out he's still precarious. And people, or teachers, through the Serra Húnter, come from outside, or from within, so end up with this stability. And the third weakens: an excess of bureaucracy that also explains from universities and that we should also analyze. So, I think we're working this past year to look into this. And, we must not forget, at least from the Socialist Group, what we would like is a policy of teacher education, which is part of university autonomy, trusting in this autonomy, but above all in a financial compromise just on the part of the Government, because, if we do not have the capacity to pay in a dignified way, it will be difficult for us to have the best. We must trust in the Catalan university system that so many good results have given us, above all in search, that we are at levels, as you know, of excellence, say, far too much for the country we are, right? Therefore, despite the precariousness, our faculty, our PDI, is of the best. And that, then, we should start to adjust it already with the conditions if we don't want to leave at the end as happens in so many cases. Three problems that we want..., we should solve, with the Serra Húnter and beyond the Serra Húnter, or see if the Serra Húnter can help us solve, such as precariousness, said, in the contract; the lack of generational replenishment for a certain envelope of the staff, but also for a lack of planning, and, the third, a lack of expectations in the promotion. This is also an element that we believe is important because it discourages many of those who are in our Catalan university system at this time. So, let's review the Serra Húnter program, let's review it together with the universities, we've given ourselves a year, the young lady tells us that, so she asks us, so she forces us to do it; let's do it this way. Universities have demonstrated their value in times of crisis, with details of more than 30_per_cent, with an increase in taxes, with great difficulty in the university and with great tension, they have demonstrated that they have people and teachers with talent, prepared, and, therefore, we also give them this confidence, but above all we have the resources necessary to pay for this policy, we have them. We have just presented the assumption for 2017; we have the opportunity, counselor, to show that the public university is important to us and that we increase its funding, not the one that has lost in these years, but, like at least, the one that the rectors are demanding in the past, which is an increase of 100_million euros. We take advantage of this assumption that he presented himself yesterday and we give him to the university what he deserves to be able to contract the best and be able to stabilize this staff that he has been suffering for so many years. Thank you very much. And, of course, our vote will be favourable, with all these critical elements, which seem important to us in order to continue to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.125.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Mr. Joan Giner, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.126.0	Well, good morning to everyone. Good morning, Counselor. Today we come, by the way, as said the company Alicia, with the extension of the Pla Serra Húnter. The last day; if it's not this Ple, we lose it. It's been many years since this board went to the last hour, which, at the end of the day, we say we think it could have been done with a month's lead and better, but well, we'll get there more. But if we're talking about Pla Serra Húnter, what we're actually doing is talking about what the staff are at the universities or about the situation of this very staff; about the staff, above all, a PhD researcher, who is currently in Catalonia, to make an image, since we're always doing very good pictures at the university..., and it's true that there are very good pictures at the university, but there are other images that are important. There is a very concrete picture, which is that in the last few years the 23_percent of the academic academic performance has been lost– this is a reality–; it is more than 40_percent of the time allowed for the law; that the 48_percent of the staff is partial– and the Union of Accounts has warned it many times–, and that more than half of the faculty of the university has more than fifty years. Nothing against advanced-age teachers, but that means that... [[relays]] This means that maybe in two years these teachers will retire and we will find ourselves without stable teachers at universities, which makes the quality of our university system perish or can be undermined. It's a photo that should be posted on time when we're talking about the situation of university staff. Certainly, if anyone wants to ask about the data, they are from the OSU, the Observers of the University System; they are published on their website. And what solution do we have in this? That's important, huh? Here... I think here's the key to the question. What solution do we have? Then they say: « El Serra Húnter. No, no, it's not the solution. Can it be a part of the solution? Yeah, but it's not the solution. Even there were universities that, because of the hardships that have gone by, have seized the Serra Húnter as if it were a red key, and there are universities that have wanted to plant their rectors and rectors that all the places were Serra Húnter, as happened to the UB, that did not pull forward, the year passed, and it is not the solution, and we do not have to go with this interventionist philosophy to the universities in a future. And we need to make this clear if we want this extension today... or if this extension moves forward. Things that the Serra Húnter... – which is a part..., that it does not have to be a part of stability, that also, but it has to be a part of capture, that it is a part, therefore, there are other ways of grabbing staff doccently close to the university, and I think it is very important – things from this Serra Húnter that are going to get better, as we talk about the debate, and we move them directly, things very, very concrete. There is one thing that is said to be the hold-track, which is, say, the new figure of stability, which is very well, for now critical, but it would have to change the LUC because this was a reality; there is not enough legal certainty here. Then, perhaps, we have to get to work from now on to play the Law of Universities of Catalonia, because this figure is mature in this legislation. Very long processes. The question I was asking myself is: "Who will point out, who is a precarious investigator, who is the international person who will point to a process that lasts longer than two years? A person who's looking for work? A process that lasts longer than two years? So, no one. Well, then, no one. It's here. Then this cannot be; therefore, it must be changed. Examples of deserted places, in the end, have come to us, too, of people who denounce deserted places, trade unions willing to say: "The majority of deserted places remain. This, the fact in this case should be looked at. The theme of endogasm, let's say, generic profiles to avoid endogasm. The other day Arcadi explained it to us at a work meeting, to which we appreciate that he donated it. Home, it's got to be a little..., spin a little closer and see the branch we find ourselves in. There is certainly engineering, certainly science, for example, that with a generic profile..., right? Electronic engineering is one thing we're going to do, which has a very large amplitude. Engineering, for example, is very large in scope because the new technologies have a lot of places. So, we're still sensitive and we're making some places... with work, with co-responsibility with the university departments, because, if not, we can't find a solution to the issue. It was mentioned before that the capture... that it must be a tool of capture and gave the Alice that as we understand, with the working conditions that we offer now, the professorship. I can tell them again, if you want. How do we capture the best people? Actually, this is a context problem, it's not a concrete problem, we're wrong if we see it as a concrete problem, it's a context problem. And I expected, yesterday night, I, with illusion, that the assumptions of this year or the government's presuppositional proposal reflected that. We see that the bid is very small, not up to 3 or 4 million; so I think we're not going the right way. And now we have a lot of assumptions that we expect the government to be flexible, as it has been now, so we can move on to this part. And to make, as last pointed out, a critique of "the times and the ways and the will of the dial, that in the end there was not, but it was very much in the end. If that is the case... No, it cannot be that we are presented here with an extension without working with universities and without consulting with parliamentary groups, because in the end what happened to the plenary, to the general policy debate, where a little more – thanks to the PP, who sold it to us, I don't know why – this plan is paralyzed on our proposal. And just remind the PP's company, if you can say so, that university is not a currency of change, because in that Ple of general policy, we don't know why, you used Pla Serra Húnter as a currency of change. Let's hope I've changed this policy, too, and this university visit. Finally, see the dialing will. I believe that the will of dialogue must be real, there must be real... The university community is not too much in front of this issue and we have to put it in front of us. They must be co-responsible, they must have their university autonomy, too, in order to influence these policies. I mean... the compromise of 2020, we could say it's just; but, well, it's just. We understand that the debate needs to be given now, and we have a year to do this. I on the subject... And we think there's got to be more transparency in this. And for this very reason we have just entered a request for appearance of the director of Pla Serra Húnter, which we have here – to take advantage of to greet you – here in the Parliament of Catalonia, because it explains in detail the elements of this plan. It is difficult for us to vote in favour of a text that does not pose what is said, it is difficult. So, I think you should do a piece of work, a piece of work, too, in your way of proceeding and being more serious and rigorous from now on. And, if they present us with a bill of law, which actually poses what it wants to pose, and they don't orally self-examine here and in the end we have to vote on something that isn't. Therefore, without the intention of blocking this, we shall abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.127.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, there is the word María José García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.128.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, members of the Government, director of the Serra Húnter programme, welcome. University excellence, understood as a guarantee of quality, is the objective that must be marked by any university system in order not to become obsolete and to serve, in fact, as an effective tool for the training and professional integration of its students. The relationship between students and their university is symbiotic, and we must understand that in terms of synergy based on excellence, because an excellent university will train excellent professionals who will bring prestige and value to their university. The student's success is matched to the university's success, and it brings potential for expansion and growth, as other students will look for this training once they have contrasted with the good result. But for this the student must have received adequate and sufficient training to successfully face his post-university stage. And there are several factors that may or may not provide excellence in university, but certainly one of those that most directly affect the quality of the students' training, and with this their potential subsequent success, are their professors and teachers. The fact that a university has or does not have trained, capable, motivated and committed teaching staff is a determining factor in its excellence. If we want the best university, we need the best teachers, as well as the best researchers. Because the evidence shows that, except for exceptions, a good researcher will be a good teacher, committed to the subject he works, providing innovation, quality and content to his classes; and also a good teacher, curiously, eager to expand his knowledge to teach more and better, he will surely be a good researcher. And, of course, from the perspective of the internationalization of knowledge and of the working and professional world in which we move, aspire to the best teachers inevitably transcends the walls of the university. The traditional endogamic concept of university access is definitely not contrary to talent – it is clear – but represents an obvious objective limitation. For us healthy competition is good, because it promotes overcoming and individual growth. The meritocracy needs the competition of aspirants who can prove their worth on equal terms. And we believe that a university with the best teachers and researchers can only be a meritocratic university, that values merit independently and objectively, and selects its academic staff through open, transparent, fair and effective methods. Therefore, to open the process of selection of teaching and research staff, to enable a university to integrate teachers from other universities, whether Spanish or foreign, we believe that it is a value in itself, that does not exclude or prevent internal promotion, but that it enriches and complements it, always under the premise, as we have said, that the processes of selection of talent are transparent, fair and effective. And under this mentality we believe that the Serra Húnter programme was born, and that is why it deserves our support and our recognition, as an effort to improve excellence in Catalan universities, opening up to the rest of Spain and the world. The impression we have of the programme is positive, which has contributed to our universities academic talent, teacher and researcher, and has also provided them with multilingualism, a fundamental aspect already today in terms of educational quality at all levels, and more taking into account the increasingly global, more internationalized context in which our young people are going to develop their professional activity. And we also believe that the Serra Húnter has been an acquittal to our teachers, activating them to improve their teaching, their competence in other languages and their scientific or research production. The Pla Serra Húnter has injected into our system a new and quality wisdom, which has been an incentive, an atmosphere of cooperation, overcoming, recognition of talent, a positive stimulus for the other researchers and professors of the university. And finally tell us the objective data, also the assessments of the student, that the teachers hired through this program, Serra Húnter, who do not represent, as has been said, more than a quarter of the total teaching staff and researcher, have given a good result, as teachers and, above all, as researchers. Perhaps two essential or particularly important aspects of the programme are the publicity of their offer of places and the composition of the court. Both contribute to ensuring this openness, transparency, justice, effectiveness in the selection of teaching and research staff that we defined, by initiating, as fundamental to incorporate talent, high qualification and international approval into our university. However, the experience and filming of these years show aspects that need to be modified, we believe, in order to improve the implementation of the programme; for example – as has already been said – in relation to the time it takes to cover a place, or certain evaluation criteria, or the economic compensation offered, which is not competitive in international terms, but which cannot be a comparative aggravation for the rest of the faculty. These are some of the aspects that we believe should be discussed in order to review them and improve them. At this point in the debate, it seems essential to listen to the universities, to all the actors in the university world involved or affected by this programme. And we must also listen to the proposals of the Government itself, of the Secretariat of Universities, as we know its interest in maintaining and improving a program that is avant-garde in Spain and that is prestige our community. We would be grateful not to fall into the mistake of considering Catalan universities as a system independent of the rest of the Spanish university system. Competition in the university sphere, you know, is shared between the autonomous governments and the central government. The university district is unique in Spain, and everything must respect the university autonomy of each university, it is located in the population in which it is located. We need to coordinate with the ministry and other communities. I think that in the Secretariat of Universities they understand it, but it is not much more to remember that in this Parliament, a part of which identifies and promotes unilateral approaches of rupture that do not respect neither the basic norms that guarantee coexistence, nor the essential institutions in any rule of law, nor the social majorities. The Pla Serra Húnter is a pioneer in Spain, and we know that it is recognized from other autonomous communities. It is a good practice that we can share, thus helping to enrich and improve the Spanish university landscape, which will undoubtedly end up also favoring both Catalan university students and universities located in Catalonia. And, returning to the bill, the government proposes that we endorse an extension of the Pla Serra Húnter. As explained in the explanatory statement, the programme expired on 31 December, almost a year ago. It is therefore urgent to resolve this, to resolve the current precarious situation of the programme, if we are to bet on its continuity. It must be considered that, if the extension is not approved, recruitment at the university would be blocked by this route and we could find ourselves in a serious situation of lack of teaching staff. From the People's Party of Catalonia we believe that we must avoid this situation. For all the reasons we have explained, from the People's Party we support the continuity of the Serra Húnter programme and we therefore believe that the bill proposed by the Government must be adopted. Only one exception that we want to make explicit and that is recorded in the Minutes – other spokespersons have already commented on it and the advisor himself –: a couple of plenarys ago we approved Parliament's recommendation to the Government to extend the Pla Serra Hunter until 2020, and not 2030, as proposed by the bill. Out of respect for this political mandate and knowing that it is not binding, we have requested and obtained from the Secretariat of Universities, today also from the Councillor, the formal commitment that, once the bill is passed, the Government itself will amend, amend the extension period, in line with the parliamentary mandate. Therefore, in the confidence that the Government will comply with this commitment and with the will to cooperate in improving the implementation of this programme, with pragmatism and objectivity, from the People's Party of Catalonia, we will vote in favour of the bill presented to us by the Government. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.129.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.130.0	Well, thank you. MPs, MPs, Madam President, Councillor, of appreciation for the Serra Húnter programme, there are practically so many ways to pronounce the name of the person who gave it inspiration, the fruit of his Irish avi; this « Húnter, therefore, generates conflict, as conflict has also generated the implementation of this plan, of this program. And we, therefore, today we too have been obliged, committed to giving a precise view to these phonative criticisms that have taken place on the plate. That is why we supported the motion for a resolution which was voted in the plenary, in the general policy debate, which did not succeed, but we do understand that the Government is willing to review the terms of the plan. For us a priority of the public university must be the continuity of the teaching and academic career and that we must find, therefore, the ways to establish the people who want to make a career worth doing. It will be said that this is not the object of the Pla Serra Húnter, but the truth is that, if you do not create enough places of addition outside the Serra Húnter, so many teachers who seek stability will choose, this way, via Serra Húnter, that was not thought for this, there is agreement, but then we cannot hear it as two independent problems, but they are related. And if the defenders of Serra Húnter consider internationalization, mobility and the erosion of the endogamy a priority, which we can agree with, then we want to make use of the same importance as this other political priority, which is the struggle against precariousness, if we hope that there will also be consensus, that there will be agreements to put it right. Precarity is a structural problem. One part of this precariousness is explained with false associates and the other is derived from the lack of lives enough for stability. For one band, the false associates, therefore, suppose, for example, at the University of Barcelona, that it is the largest in the country, more than half of the teaching research staff, and many of them are sharing credits under five hundred euros, that it is also a way of precaritating and a way of misrepresenting the talent of many people that will probably end up abandoning this way, when the only one offered to him is chaining contracts, a behind the other, as an associate teacher. This is of all minor excellence. And it's a situation that affects a vast majority of people who are teaching our universities. And the other manifestation of the problem we find, effectively, in the lack of lives for stability. Because it is understood, then, when someone has already done the doctorate, opts for a contract of..., one of the options to continue is the reader contract, which would last five years; but it is after this reader contract when the great void is produced so that it can continue to stabilize itself. The truth is that from the 2011-2012 course to the majority of people who have finished their reading contract has been said goodbye, for the draconian repositioning fee imposed by the Government of the Spanish State. It is true, and this means, therefore, an envelope of the template, as it has already been assigned, means all of talent that has been left to escape or that has been pre-charitable, as we have been planning, and, finally, in the medium term, and if it is returned to low repositioning taxes, which is very likely, so now on time it is back to the cent_per_cent, but they are planning the legislature of the People's Party, so it will probably be back to low repositioning taxes... so, probably this, in the medium term, may mean the col·lapse of the university system. To the readership, therefore, he would follow, in a process of stabilization, the contract of aggregation, and the profile of the person who opts for this contract of aggregation is that of a person, so, we could say..., type profile that goes around or approaches the quarantine, that needs to be stabilized and that you are threatened, we could say so, if it is put in the process, at the time of competition propitious to a summons such as that laid by the Serra Hunter. Of course, before the lack of sufficient places added by the ordinary way, the Serra Húnter does not offer, obviously under its criteria, and this is the conflict in which teachers and teachers are found, who are the most critical with the Serra Húnter. We, for example, would also like to add an idea to this proposed revision of the program and it is that..., if it would not be more certain than these files, this competitive moment that you want to promote the Serra Húnter, is gifted at the time of accessing the readership and not at the time of accessing the place of aggregate, which is thought to be more readership for the Via Serra Húnter than not adding, isn't it? , for the profile of the person you could choose. We make this defense of the collection, because, that someone wants to promote internally, to stay, therefore, at the same university where the reader has made the reading, does not mean that it is automatically a case of endogym, can be simply a Romanesque will on a team and a circle where it fits personally and academically. And that's also legitimate, because what's not worth talking about is endogym and favoritism at the university, because whoever controls the contract is the direction of the department, but in change, make a flag of the decree of plants that allows, therefore, the direction of the centers to make the contract to form teams. Either we still judge it with the same prism or we don't do it this way. It does not seem to us just that one thing is considered in an endogenous way and the other is considered, therefore, a path to excellence in our schools and institutes. We, obviously, as has been said, will not prevent this bill from succeeding with the aim of not preventing the agreement that universities are waiting for and knowing that the Government, therefore, is compromising two questions: to consider, as the Councillor has announced, the extension of the plan only until 2020 and not until 2030, and to adapt this plan to the consensus that arose from the critical assessment of the implementation that has not been made so far, right? As was said, the Government is also committed to giving more data to make this assessment, and, in concrete terms, therefore, in these findings that we have made with the Department of Universities, it is also intended to offer, to the parliamentary groups, to find us with the council of the Serra Hunter, as well as a finding with the vice-rectors of the universities that carry, at the head and at the end, this question of the professorship and that are connoisseurs of the strong points and the bad points of the Serra Hunter Pla. We believe that changes should be proposed, that we should also focus on those that have already been proposed, that are less bureaucratic and that the calls do not trigate so much to resolve's, that the names' internationally acceptable conditions are, therefore, effectively the most uncertain, and pointing to what we have already said: that the Serra Húnter was a program more per reader's places at the post-doc time than for aggregates, right? Obviously he continues to see the problem that we have raised: who will put the other places of aggregation for the people who want to stabilize for the other lives. This continues to be a political priority to resolve. In this debate, therefore, that we will propose a review of the Serra Húnter program, we will make good what we here have exposed about the need to accompany, therefore, the Serra Húnter program of solutions to the precariousness of the university professorate. Without a sufficient supply of places to add, the purpose of the Serra Húnter is blurred, because it ends up opting for those who have profiles and those who do not, but need to take some path in order to continue in a teaching and academic career. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.131.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr Toni Castellà, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.132.0	President... deputies, deputies..., thank you for all the interventions, even that of Mr Giner, who put the limit to fifty years, I am forty-six, so I am still productive, right? , respects the limit of which we are produced or not. In any case... [[Funnel veils]] – Deputy Giner said so, huh? –, donate the welcome also to the Director General of Research, to the Director of the Serra Húnter program. What we're discussing exactly in one-reading, and that's why it's a one-reading, if not, it wouldn't be justified to make a one-reading, it's exclusively the extension of a term to co-finance universities. This is exactly what we are voting for today, and, moreover, we have come to a consensus in which the term today is marked in this law will be self-explanatory for the group that supports the Government, the Group of Joints for the Yes, to mark this consensus among all of 2020. Therefore, we could finish the intervention here, but I think it has been very positive that all the groups go into depth in the program itself, in the Serra Húnter program, who are their motivations, objective and how to improve it. In fact, not very many years ago, there was a study at King's College that analyzed the governance of universities from the world. In fact, they analyzed, they sorted out about two hundred and I'm out of departments, two hundred and I'm out of universities in the world, and the conclusion... they'll say..., at the conclusion there probably could have been no study, but at the end of the day a field study had to be done to carry out the empirical verification, with a close look, and its conclusion is that there was no single model of governance, they couldn't say the best model of governance at the universities, but if the whole governance structure of a university, all of it, was geared, totally and exclusively, to the capture, retention and promotion of talent. If all the organization is oriented here, the university works much better. So if we think of the Catalan system, 2003 was a very important consensus decision in this country. They took decisions on the constitution of a different governance through search centers, talent-gathering programs, such as ICREA, and made the Law of Universities of Catalonia. Why did he do this? Because at that time there was a need to get out of a legal framework of the Spanish State very slashed, rigid, different to the whole European, international, excellency, and which, unfortunately, is still today. And we were looking for the locks at that time to have a much more open, much more flexible system. In fact, this... – that's why my intervention started – this is the soul at the end that we should discuss all the pleas. That is to say, the governance system of our universities has reformed all European countries, all of them, even in Greece in the midst of the crisis, less in the Spanish State. And it's a reflection to do. In any of the cases, instruments, which we have, and many, which I have noticed so far, make that in two years the system of science, of universities in Catalonia, makes a qualitative leap in difference to all that there was so far. And one of these instruments – one of these instruments – was the Pla Serra Húnter. In fact, the Pla Serra Húnter the only one who gave at the time to the LUC is: we are looking for the contractual way so that this is more open, more internationalized. As the Councillor said, this involved in the first phase more than five hundred teachers with a better level of internationalization, but not much, much, much different. And that's where 2011 was decided if it was a much closer phase to what research-oriented universities do, world powers, with whom we're a counterpart. And different considerations: when some of the deputies talk about dialogue with the universities, they have the peace of mind that 2011, for more than a year of negotiation, the current Serra Húnter program is close to the universities, and not to mark medals, just because it cannot be done in any other way. On the Serra Húnter program, the contracting competition is from the university; therefore, it is either agreed or not. Therefore, the current Serra Húnter program is agreed thread to detail. What's the point, at the end, of the program? It is not the policy of global contracting of universities, it is only a part – some Members referred to it. The aggregate route, the normal reader route, is the one that marks the LUC. The Serra Húnter program is a specific program of internationalization of our universities. The limitations– let me 'hodir so'– obtuses, imposed for the State, in limitation and repositioning, that broke, in 12, in 13, in 14. Finally, in a crisis situation, here, in this country, we limited all the restorative taxes – to Catalonia, in reference, to the Government of the Generality – it was at all cost to the university professor. Because we are very aware of the need for repositioning, above all, at a time of opportunity in which – as some reference has been made – for the middle age of the faculty is an opportunity of how and how we renew this faculty. When we plant the Serra Húnter program, it is planted according to the best practices. In the end, what we are looking for is that the teacher who integrates himself via Serra Húnter does so in an open, international process of appeal, and that his level of research is, like at least, above the medium of the scientific production of his department. The criteria were very inspired by a program with ICREA that was already contrasted. And that meant, as you know, courts for part of the university, part of the internationalization and part of the outside. But let me say that when we talk about internationalization in the academic sphere – and you know it – we are not talking about nationalities, there is nothing to see. Let me 'hold in another way: a German teacher who has never left his German university, if he is contracted for the Serra Húnter program, his level of internationalization is zero. It has nothing to do with nationality. We are talking about people, about teachers, who have made states, who have moved internationally. And in this case, the results are, I think, very good. In the last round of calls for Serra Húnter, 92_percent of teachers' contracts– 92_per_cent– are internationalized, and a 20_per_cent, at last, have read theses outside Catalonia. To give references: the middle of the internationalization level of the Spanish state teacher is 4_per_cent, 4 versus 92, is abysmal. So, if they ask me, what is the nationality of most of them? Catalans. Therefore, Serra Húnter, in fact – in fact – without pretension, what has been a talent return program in Catalonia, because we have always said that a mobility system is: young people must be able to go outside, whenever they have the ability to return. And Serra Húnter has allowed the return, not all we want, but the return. Therefore, I believe that it is very important that the level of internationalization is the Catalan internationalized teacher, in general terms – in general terms. Now we have an opportunity to debate it with all the folds and improve. I agree, we can always get better. Some of the reflections that have been made on precariousness, on time, on bureaucracy... is that it has to do with the fact that we have to fit the program with a Spanish law that thinks less of Serra Hunter's goals, precisely. The one who talks to them, in any case, is convinced that the day we blow up the Catalan Republic, this problem we will not have. And, in fact, we probably won't even need a program like the Serra Húnter, because the same university will be able to apply good practices. When someone referred to whether or not we intervened..., forgive me, 2012 was the rector who asked the government: "Please, or put in a program of this type or not, with the system of governance, to impose an open, transparent, internationalization process. This is the result that we can have and that we can agree among all to improve, and so on. And, if that's the case, the potential for the product model change depending on the country's ability to generate knowledge is absolutely unlimited. I ended up with a reference, which, as if I were not made by the rest of the Members, in our own group, the Group of Together for the Yes: "Nature magazine, the most scientific magazine in the world, just last week defined that the only place in southern Europe – the only place in southern Europe – that despite the crisis has preserved its level of search excellence is Catalonia. And, for some reference I have heard here – I will take advantage of the Faristol – there is someone with very few criteria in a communication medium that says publicly that if this article of Nature – it is to be distressed, to be Nature – was paid for the government. Nature has had to answer a journalist of a Catalan medium telling him that this is false, Nature directly. Therefore, this should be a pride... Forgive me, because it is not a task of the Government, nor of the Government at that time; it is a task of the entire search system, which is, as the Councillor has said, one of the most important knowledge poles in southern Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.133.0	Congressman, you've run out of time. [[Some applause.]] We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Let's vote on the Pla Serra Húnter Prolongation Bill. The vote begins. The Pla Serra Húnter Prolongation Bill was approved by 111 votes to 20. [[Draft law on the electronic voting procedure for Catalans and Catalans residing abroad (debate of totality)]] [[200-00017/11]] The fourth item on the agenda is a total debate on the draft law on the electronic voting procedure for Catalans and Catalans residing abroad. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules, the initiative, on behalf of the Government, is presented by Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Adviser, Public Administrations and Habitats. Please, ask them to leave in silence and in a hurry, because the counselor can start the intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.134.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the working group that are with us today, members of the department, who have also been able to come, the essence of the democratic system is the right to vote; a vote for universal suffrage, free, equal, direct and secret, according to what the State establishes. And the public powers we have to do everything in your hand to ensure that our citizens can exercise their right normally. A city that does not exercise its vote is an unprotected city. One of the first challenges we were going to have when I got to the councilhouse was to organize the elections on 27 September 2015. And it was at that moment when I personally, but also the secretary general who is with me, we see, we could say, feeling the feeling of absolute impotence before so many Catalans that after the alienation they wanted to vote and they couldn't do it. I'm sure they have to remember the escandol of problems and difficulties to solve, so they can vote from outside. Of the 196,065 Catalan permanent residents abroad, 21,771 asked for the vote, and of these, only 14,781 finally voted. We will ask the Central Electoral Board three times to extend the deadline and to refuse three times. You must remember: lost votes, problems with the summer hours of the embassies and consulates, papers that never came to the voters or did so months later, etc. In fact, we opened a direct channel of communication with Catalans abroad, where we looked at more than five hundred concrete complaints and problems. And we filed a case with the Supreme Court, which is in processing and the sentence we expect will be in a few months. All that generated, logically, much frustration, impotence to so many citizens, but also to the Government of the country. That's why at that time we took on the commitment to guarantee this fundamental right, which is the right to vote. As the government we have to guarantee and avoid that shame is repeated; because, in fact, it was a shame, the fact that so many Catalans living abroad cannot vote. As I have already said, the current system does not guarantee voting for this collection and, like the Government, we cannot stand idly by. It is in this sense that last April the Government of the Generality agreed - it agreed - to make a plan of action to implement the electronic vote, coordinated from the Department of Governance, but with the collaboration of the Presidency and also the Department of Foreign Affairs, as well as experts from different fields. In concrete terms, we have relied on the collaboration of a group of people with a recognised trajectory in the field of electronic voting, both for what it refers to in the strictly technological and legal context. And therefore, your expertise and your knowledge have been, logically, taken into account. And I want to take this opportunity to thank your dedication and your commitment to these thirty-two people who worked intensely for two weeks to be able to make this platoon – this platoon – which will be a pioneer in the Spanish state. With this plan he defined an electronic voting model that we want to implement, and he proposed to do the whole process over the Internet. And it has been so because this option, so it gives three great benefits. The first, access to the right to vote anywhere in the world with access to the Internet. Secondly, it is an efficient and sustainable process; much more than the sending of paper from the world, which often, as I have already said, is not up there. The third, technology exists, is safe, proven and reliable; it has been used in countries like Switzerland, France and Estonia and has no doubts. So much so that, at last, use is expected in the own European elections. In conclusion, this board tells us that technologically and legally it is possible to implement this voting system, and that, therefore, only political will is needed to approve a law that exclusively regulates electronic voting and that you do so ensuring that the process is secure, transparent, reliable and auditable. And that's why, in fact, we're here today. We believe – we believe and continue to believe – that with a broad interpretation of the law, of the Spanish electoral law, reinforced with a specific regulation, it could regulate the electronic vote. That's what we believe, and that's what we believe. But we met with the Central Electoral Board and also with the Electoral Center Office, which advised us not to go this way and urged us to go on the way of the Catalan law. In fact, the Catalonian State of Autonomy recognizes the ability of Catalonia to provide us with a law that establishes the electoral regime and, therefore, also the ability to provide us with a law that rules concrete or partial aspects, such as the case of the electronic voting procedure for Catalans who live abroad. As you know, currently the electoral process is governed by the LOREG, the General Electoral Law, a state law, and now, with this law, we want to regulate the electronic voting procedure for Catalans residing abroad. This will be a partial law, to implement the electronic vote, and in any case replaces the country's goal of making a Catalan electoral law that rules everything, obviously; a will that we share and therefore this does not have to be an obstacle because in the proper elections to the Parliament of Catalonia this situation is resolved. The law before us defines in detail the voting process, the collection to which it is addressed, in which cases it will apply and the guarantees of the process. First issue: how will the voting process be? Therefore, it will be complementary to the current systems; it will therefore agree with the vote by mail. It will be optional, because the elector will be able to choose whether to use this system or the other existing ones and, for another band, it will also exclude, as is obvious, the doubling of the vote. Which collection is it headed to? It leads, therefore, to Catalans and Catalans residing abroad registered in the electoral census of the absent residents, the CERA. And it is not ruled out to expand its use, for example, to the blind or deafened, because they are people who also have difficulty in exercising their vote for traditional mechanisms. When will it apply? Therefore, in the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia and to other electoral processes and popular consultation instruments in the field of competitions of the Generality of Catalonia in which this voting procedure is foreseen in accordance with the rules in force. As I said at the outset, we are legislating on a very important, very important issue, on the exercise of a fundamental right. The use of electronic media in the voting process must respect the general democratic principles, the rights of citizens and the guarantees of electoral legislation. And that is why the law that we present is absolutely guaranteed in its drafting and is based on the following twelve principles: the first, the freedom to vote; the second, the equality and non-discrimination in the exercise of the rights of political participation; the third, the secret character of the vote and the guarantee of the total deprivation of the elector; the fourth, the full and effective identification of the elector; the fifth, the integrity and the qualitative and quantitative unalterability of the vote; the new, the transparency and the totality of the voting process; the set, the security in all phases of the electronic voting procedure; the eighth, the robust authentication; the new, the transparency and the overallity in the electronic voting procedure and in the ballot, as well as the audit of the essential voting procedure; the finality of the voting procedure; the finality of the voting procedure; the finality of the voting procedure; the finality of the voting procedure; the finality of the voting procedure; the finality of the voting procedure; the finality of voting procedure; In summary, therefore, today we present a law that provides for measures to be able to audit the vote and verify the security and correct functioning of all phases. As well as security measures to prevent votes from altering or being lost, and to prevent, also, the unauthorized treatment of the vote. It is, therefore, a law that solves a difficult problem, and makes it impossible to enter into the modification of the electoral system. Look, the vote, in democracy, is sacred. And today not all Catalans still have it guaranteed. I'm done. Ensuring the right to vote of all Catalans and Catalans, as I believe is clearly demonstrated, is not a technical or technological problem, nor is it legal, it is only a matter of political will that Catalans and Catalans residing in the foreigner can have a voting system that allows them to vote. Voting by mail or in an embassy or consular office has been shown, I believe that we are all well aware, that it seriously restricts the right to vote for the citizen and citizens who see him abroad, and I believe that, as a government and also as a parliament, we are obliged to give him solutions. The Administration of the Generality is a modern, pioneering, innovative administration, and so is being with it. We must guarantee the right to vote to foreign residents, prevent them from passing the calvary that they must pass every time there are elections, and at the same time ensure that the process is secure, secret and transparent. Look, as I said, the right to vote is a fundamental right, we can't deny it to anyone. Now, technically, it's possible; legally, it can also be with this law. Guaranteeing the right to vote, therefore, to everyone only depends on the will of all of you. Because no more city has to see their right to vote restricted, and that's what this law guarantees. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.135.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the defense of the emena to the totality, presented for the Popular Party of Catalonia, has the word Mrs Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.136.0	Okay. This Parliament has had the opportunity to have its own electoral law, in Catalonia, as at least in three joint elections, as at least. These three poses, which ended with an absolute weakness, what they wanted, among other things, is to improve proportionality, to improve the representativeness of what were the votes rightly cast for all Catalans. It is curious that the same group and the same parties that form part of this group that supports the government opposes it. They opposed the proportional and balanced vote of all Catalans voting in the elections. Why? Motius? Because the rest of them were missing, he was missing the strength as he left. That sounds almost like a contradiction, doesn't it? , which is now present this bill as a revolutionary project to improve what is democracy we have in Spain, and, in concrete terms, here in Catalonia. And I say that for a very clear thing. This project is not to improve our democratic system, it is not to improve the guarantees of voting, of access to voting, on conditions of equality, of security, that they have Catalans when they reside in the foreigner; this is not the will of this law, much so that it is repeated and that the councillor has explained it to us, but at the end of the day, this is one more tool, it is a tool more than a hyperventilated independence that we have now itself, which, in the search of a social majority that does not have in Catalonia, therefore, wants to try to find it by means of an electronic vote to the foreigner that, by chance, twelve countries of our European circle have banned. And they have banned this vote, through these electronic voting systems, among other things because it is not guaranteed, or, that it was secret; two, that it was certain, that it is the essence – the essence – of the vote in democracy: security and confidentiality. That said, in the end it seems that you want to convert one of the most essential rights..., the adviser said to us: "It is an essential right, and it is, but it seems that you want to convert that essential right, go, almost into an Electoral Cyber Monday. And we're not willing to give recollection to this among other things because we think it's just the opposite of what they supposedly claim with this bill, which is to improve and strengthen our democracy. It's also a coincidence that this project... it's true that it was presented in April, but it seems that it followed the CUP indications in a motion that they presented to this House practically four weeks ago. It seems that you, as a group that supports the Government, as well as Juntes for the Yes, follow the ruling of the CUP in all the reference to which the Catalan communities are to foreign and, therefore, also to this electronic vote to foreign. Our motto is present for this, among other things. First, because it does not guarantee the exercise of such an essential right in democracy as is the right to vote, to participate democratically in electoral processes with certainty, with transparency and, above all, with confidentiality, and then, we do not deceive ourselves, this is one more tool that you want to serve for future references. In fact, it has been said here that this would go very well for the own choices we have in Catalonia. I don't know who you're talking about, if you're talking about the referendum, if you're talking about some early elections because they don't have the support or not... to approve some assumptions, but this is the most immediate reality there is. We, from the People's Party, already know that this theme is possible that it doesn't prosper, because not all parties think the same, right? that the security and confidentiality of the vote is essential for a healthy democracy. But I would like to say one thing: you know perfectly well that this goal will serve you and the possible outcome of this bill in a new appeal from the Constitutional Court will serve you for another time, so to feed this constant victimism that we must ‘go away so that they won't let us do it, right? And we already know that you will use this as one of the most important reasons to continue with your way of breaking, breaking between the same Catalans and breaking Catalans respect the rest of the Spanish. But there are more motii, than we don't suppose, but also legal motii. It is not certain that a flexible interpretation of the electoral law, of the LOREG, or of the Constitution alone, allows this modification and this draft of the electronic voting law. Article 68.1 of the Constitution: when it speaks of universal suffrage, of free, equal, direct and secret voting, between other things, it refers precisely to LOREG, and LOREG, when it speaks precisely of the election process, it speaks of the whole process. In the end, the voting system is an essential part of the election process. Therefore, it is clear that there is a competitive invasion, that there are no competitions from here to make the electronic vote that is intended today. Perhaps it is true that the vote « begs has difficulties to apply, this is obvious. The place to change it is the Congress of Deputies. And the reality is to change to improve the vote, which is a guarantee and which serves many countries around us, it is possible, but repealing it is a mistake. And it's a mistake because, in the end, if we look at a little..., "the world looks at us, no; we look at the world, to see what the world does: 295 countries in the world, how many have an electronic vote? Set. How many have banned it? Only from our European side, twelve. Why? Alemanya: it's going to last... not four years. The same Supreme Court suspended him; he declared him unconstitutional, in fact. And he did it because among other things he wouldn't allow it to be taxed that the vote was secret, confidential, free and secure. In Holland, exactly the same; well, less, it lasted half, two years, against the four of Germany. Similarly, the Electoral Court banned it because it was not possible to ensure the privacy of the vote, an essential right, was it not? to exercise the right to vote. In Finland, two years; exactly the same. In Ireland, exactly the same; what happens is that they found that it's not a problem anymore..., it was no longer just a confidentiality problem but also the system's reliability. In the United Kingdom, thirty pilot tests were carried out, thirty, and it was withdrawn in 2008. We believe that this bill is not a project to improve and strengthen our democracy, we believe that it is the same as always and that you fall another blow in the mistake of always: first, lack of institutional loyalty; we know perfectly well that this project is a project that will end up in the Constitutional Court and that will surely be declared unconstitutional because it carries out competitions, they know perfectly well what our legal framework is. And, besides, it is also a project that lacks guarantees and, moreover, runs counter to current times. You have started a breakup process when the current times are precisely the opposite: of collaboration, union, taking strength and adding strength among all. And this project is exactly the same: archaic. And it's archaic for everything I've explained. The countries that have tried to modify or repeal the vote "requested to change it for the electronic vote have found that this system is a system that is not sure, that does not guarantee what we said before, at the beginning of this exhibition, that the vote would be universal, free, equal, direct and, above all, secret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.137.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In order to defend the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.138.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, we could save us many words in this speech thanks to the presentation made by the Councillor of this law, because I believe that, with remarkable legal wrongness, she said, she mentioned – legal wrongness, moreover, for her own interests – she described as a fundamental right the right to vote in a democracy, and it is true; but, if that is true, then what is not true is that we can process it through this autonomous law in Parliament. Why? Because the fundamental rights, fundamental rights and duties of the Spaniards, which, as we know, are regulated in the specific title of the fundamental rights and duties of the Spaniards in the Constitution, are regulated by organic state laws. Therefore, the General Electoral Regime Organization Act is the General Electoral Regime Organization Act. Therefore, only with that assertion, with that statement of the Counsellor, could we say to ourselves: "Well, Commissioner, what happens is that you are here trying to regulate a matter for which we have no competence. And I would also like to say to him: "Listen, look, the Citizens' is not that we are a chafaguitarras, it is that we do not have competitions, counselor. Having no competence does not mean that we cannot and should regulate, among all, the public authorities to which you have referred, regulate things and modify what is wrong, but we do so, as in the whole civilized world, where it corresponds. And where do the Catalans, you, your party and mine, and the other, and that, and that? Where? We do so where the sovereignty of all Spaniards resides. And there we all go, you too – and now we'll talk about what you've painted in all this prayerful vote, because it's a lot, and you seem to forget it. And there we can, the Catalans too, along with many others, regulate things, just as not all Spaniards, not all Italians, not all Germans today are completely owners of their sovereignty, since they have delegated part of their sovereignty to larger bodies, such as the European Union. And that's how we organize people in the civilized world. The same as a city council cannot declare war on France, so since the Parliament of Catalonia certain rights and duties that affect equality in the fundamental rights of all Spaniards, we take them and, as we are very civilized, because we leave and speak among all and regulate them; we do not leave them unregulated, but we regulate them where it is necessary to regulate them. This..., I will not bore you with the explanations of Article 149.1, first of the Spanish Constitution, and the additional first provision of the LOREG, which in its second paragraph says that Article 75 of the LOREG will apply in the Autonomous Communities, and it is the 75 precisely which regulates the requested vote, and you want to regulate now outside of what the LOREG establishes. You make a very strange mention legally, that « this law will be complementary to LOREG. But what is this about being complementary? You, too, how are the possibility of saying in the law: "No, will the various electoral boards meet? And you do as if you have to come and talk to you those institutions that are regulated in an organic law, and you from here, from Catalonia, unilaterally, could say who has to intervene in the development of this law. Therefore, the law is quite a legal and jurisdictional misconception. And that is the basic reason why Citizens have been forced to put this amendment in its entirety, despite the fact that, at the bottom of the matter, we are absolutely in line. We want an electronic vote, we believe that the requested vote is not working, we find it outrageous that there are Catalans and other Spaniards who cannot exercise their vote with absolute normality, we find it outrageous. But do you know what I'm telling you? That is that, in the year 2010, on 30 December 2010, the congressman, Congressman of Convergence i Unió in the Congress of Deputies, on 30 December 2010 said: "We have improved the vote CERA – the vote of the residents abroad –, « vote in ballot box and vote by internal mail within countries. If in any..., it justified the reform that you voted to make the Spanish vote worse abroad; you voted it... Because I also remember it, look, in 2008 – I have it written down here – voted 384,000 people abroad; in 2015, 89,000. That is, they had a decrease of 384,000 to 89,000. And that in 2008 there were 1.2_million people living abroad, and in 2015, after the migration exodus, there were 1.9_million; there were a lot more people, and yet in the December 2015 elections there was a lot less vote. And his deputy from Convergence i Unió said: "If in any way this electoral reform is important, it is in the position of the Socialist Party and the first party of the opposition, the People's Party – which was then in the opposition – to revalidate an electoral system that is part of the consensus and pact of the Transition." And you were participating... wrongly, you were wrong, you were wrong, but it's not the evil Spain that's doing it because we don't vote Catalans or the rest of the Spanish. Because the problem with our Catalan citizens abroad is the same as with many other Spanish citizens abroad. We have to regulate it among all – among all. What you ruined there, let's fix it there, that's what we're trying to do already in Citizens. Take part in it; participate in it and do not go to a law – and with this I will conclude – that what you do is a processing, by law... That besides me you have almost cleared up my doubts when you spoke here, because it seems like..., I understand that you do not do it by the way of a Catalan electoral law even? I understand that you intend this to be governed by a law that will not be enshrined in the Catalan electoral law? Because, listen, if you think this can regulate it from there..., it's questionable. In this I disagree with the Socialist colleagues, who are not going to support this amendment as a whole; I am closer to the thesis also expressed by the Member of the People's Party. We believe that it is a purely competitive issue, that we cannot do so. The socialists, therefore, think: "Let's see what this looks like. Let's just let it go and see what it looks like. But, with what you are presenting here, I see here rather the tool of confrontation, which even tries to circumvent our statutory obligations to have an electoral law with a specific three-fifth majority and that you also want to skip it. You want to skip the Constitution, you don't even pay attention to the Statute when you're interested, and the only thing you'd have to do is, if you think this is viable, take it to the paper that's going to launch a new electoral law. But trying to process through a law that seeks something that is impossible, that is not going to get anywhere, and all in such a hurry, that you don't understand very well, this rush that you suddenly get into by regulating these things, what you are indicating, in our opinion, is that you alone, as always, have the objective placed on the issue of separation, confrontation and division, and that if you want to build and do good things and allow the people to really vote, and vote in freedom, and vote with guarantees, with an electronic vote, that we can talk among all and that in the end it is the future..., if now you can't and now you are not sure, you have to see what. But that will be possible in the future, of which we are absolutely sure. Therefore, I wish we could throw something like this forward, I wish we could, but we are afraid that this is a mere tool of distraction, of confrontation, of seeking confrontation with the State and of division between parliamentary groups, and we very much regret that this is not the way to fix what we are all interested in fixing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.139.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then, in order to fix his position, Mr. David Pérez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.140.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members, guests, people who are following us on the Internet, with electronic procedures, we will vote clearly in favour of this law, that is to say, we will vote against the return documents submitted. And we will do it with three conditions: the first, that there is a clear verification, extreme to extreme, throughout the process; the second, that there is political consensus, and the third, that there is a strict and scrupulous compliment of all legal procedures. This implementation of the electronic voting procedure is transcendental, it's very important. For what reason? So, you see, depending on how it works, depending on how it goes, we'll see if this electronic voting system works in the future, it's going to be universal for all elections, and if it goes wrong it'll fail. There are, we have experiences, it has been said, it has been commented on, of countries: Estonia, Switzerland 2004, France, Canada, Germany, Mexico... I remind the deputy of the PP that Norway has discontinued it for political reasons, but all the evaluation reports, of the pilots who were made, were absolutely positive; but there was, let's say, a disagreement from the political point of view. But it was done in different countries. And in those countries where there's political consensus, it's done and there's no technical problems, that works and it's done again. But in those countries where this is done and is not done with political consensus or there is a technical malfunction or the government does it with pure interests, so it is not done again. So this is the key to everything. We want it to be done again and, therefore, we want it to be done with political consensus, that it is done with all technical security and that it is also done with a scrupulous compliment of the law. Sap el Senyor Carrizosa i sap la companya Esperanza, del Partito Popular, que la Junta..., la Junta Electoral Central, a maito – a maito, la Junta Electoral Central -, in its report on the regulation of the vote of Spanish voters residing or staying abroad..., makes a very comprehensive, very detailed, very clear report in which it explains the experiences of other countries, in which it explains different procedures, in which it explains the difficulties, but that in its conclusions it says: "First conclusion, it would be worth doing so; second conclusion, the aim is constitutionally legitimate; third conclusion, obviously it would have to have some legal text revised; fourth, the measure would in principle be appropriate and, given the ineffectiveness of the current system, it would also be necessary to meet the constitutional purpose of promoting political participation. He talks about the technical difficulties and agrees and also explains this report « the need for a broad public debate aimed at ensuring a very high degree of political consensus, signed by President Carlos Granados Pérez. That's to say, in short, it's possible, it's legal, it's constitutional. From the technical point of view – from the technical point of view – there are, let's say, different initials that there is no problem and that guarantee all procedures. Therefore, to us, in truth – and Mr Carrizosa said, and we are absolutely in agreement – we would like a joint debate to discuss this issue, and this law should be an issue, let us say, to the law that we have alive at this time, presented by Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, on the electoral law. We, therefore, will, in the end, propose items to shield security and also to shield all legal proceedings. And if that's good, go ahead, and if it's not good, then we won't. I'm done. In short, the Socialist Group will vote in favour of all those initiatives, including this, of an electronic voting procedure that facilitates access to the vote for citizens, because we want more and better democracy, because we want a healthier democracy. But this electronic voting procedure must be carried out with all the technical guarantees, of security, of audit, of verification of all the procedure, from extreme to extreme. Besides, in Catalonia, we have the expert in all these procedures; I think that's already said, but I'll say it again. I recall that the main international – international – character company that is doing all these procedures was born or originated at the Autonomous University of Barcelona. But we need some more condition: we need political consensus, and the claim, counsel, this political consensus, must be talked to the parties; we have not yet spoken, must be talked to the political parties. We need transparency and a scrupulous compliment of legal procedures. If we do so, then this electronic voting procedure will be universal for everyone and for all elections. But if we don't do this, with legal certainty, with political consensus, and without legal certainty, I don't count on us. Thank you very much, Madam Counselor, Madam President, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.141.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The words of Mr Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. Joan Josep Nuet and Pujals Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies and deputies, some 140,000 Catalans and Catalans living abroad cannot vote. These should be the main reason for all of us here and the main focus at the time of addressing this bill. Of the 260,000, roughly, living abroad, 156,000 have right to vote, and, as explained to the original, only a few vote. The origin of this is that it is the reform of the General Electoral Law that took place in 2007 and included it in this reform of the anonymous vote, which has become a veritable path of thorns for all those men and women, Catalan and not Catalan, citizens of the Spanish State who want to vote; a veritable path of thorns that has reduced the electoral participation of residents in the alienation, which was already low– from 30_per_cent–, up to shameful figures. We are talking between 3 and 10_per_cent; a reduction of 70, 80 or 90_per_cent in the electoral participation of citizens and citizens living abroad. And before that, something has to be done. Perhaps we will be lucky and the Government of the People's Party, with the support of the parliamentary group in Madrid of Ciutadans, the Congress and the Senate, will immediately take the initiative of the reform of the LOREG repealing its article 75 and regulating immediately the electronic vote of all citizens and citizens of the Spanish State. And maybe this goes through a fast, fast way, and we're saving ourselves, maybe, determined processing that this Parliament of Catalonia has started. But maybe that doesn't happen, and I ask, what do we do before that? Do we have to be quiet? Do we have to stay put? What do we have to tell these Catalans and those Catalans who can't vote for this bad law that in their day the People's Party voted? So we have to move – we have to move – and, therefore, this Parliament we have to say that it is doing things, that it is doing its dues. First of all, there is a law proposal from my parliamentary group, Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, an electoral law proposal that also regulates electronic voting. That's right, for all Catalans and Catalans, viscose on viscose, viscose on Vic or viscose on Sidney. Because today, voting electronically from Vic and from Sidney is very similar; it almost has to be done the same. And therefore, this is an initiative that also calls on all parliamentary groups to take into account. Obviously, there are more things than electronic voting, I know; but electronic voting, too, and also the Catalan Community Law to Foreigners Project, which also talks about electronic voting, and, obviously, this draft law that we are dealing with today, which is a good parliamentary initiative; that we have to work on it, that we have to agree, that we have to look at it, sure, in some aspects that can be improved. But it's a good way, it's a way we need to develop and, therefore, it sends to the people who may be listening to us from Berlin or from Sydney: yes, we're worried, and we're going to do our dues. If the Government of the Spanish State does them, we'll be better off; and if it doesn't, we won't stop. Obviously, we have to regulate, we have to empower the political rights of Catalans and Catalans, and the right to vote is fundamental. And I find it hard to understand the whole thing, because I think they have a logic of harm. I said that the other day, in the other bill, from the Catalan communities to the foreigner. They're describing what they want the law to say, not what you say. The law – I recommend you to refer to Article 4, Article 6 or the third additional provision, according to the law – is inserted into the statutory and constitutional legality. I have said our Statute, which clearly states that the Statute of Independence of Catalonia expressly recognizes Catalonia's ability to have a law that establishes its electoral regime and, consequently, also recognizes Catalonia's ability to have a law that sets out concrete or partial aspects of the electoral regime, as is the case with the electronic voting procedure for Catalans who see it foreign. But we are talking about the electoral census being that of all Spaniards; we are talking about the fact that all the electoral process is under the regulations adopted in the laws of the Spanish state and we are saying, at the additional disposition, that the Catalan authorities, that the Government of Catalonia wants to establish the relations agreements for the specific management before the elections that the Parliament of Catalonia has powers: elections to the Parliament of Catalonia and Catalan participatory processes. Therefore, no, it is not an instrument of the process; it is not. This is a banner song that interests some and, in any case, asks 140,000 Catalans and Catalans, who must have many opinions of the process, but of the fact that they cannot vote for one. Think of them. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.142.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.143.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, I obviously agree with many of those who have preceded me that the draft external electronic vote which today is being put to the vote for its parliamentary procedure, for its discussion, is therefore an important issue. And it's important, I think, for three reasons. One, for the large number of people it affects, for the high political significance it has and also for the moments of political exceptionality it sees the country, even though many people tend to deny it or tap their eyes. When we talk about the Catalan communities abroad we are talking about 414,000 people from the Catalan Countries; two-hundred..., about 200,000 or more than 200,000 of these in the Principality and with an increase of 9_per_cent since 2008 until today. It is to say, that somehow we are in the highest index of history for what it does to people living abroad. In fact, if we located all these people in the territorial area, then we would be talking about the second or third most important city in Catalonia. A much larger territorial area, at the population level, much larger than the Ebre Lands or looking like cities as important as Sabadell and Terrassa. And it's in the mark of this import and of these rights of all those people we believe, we have to situate – or at least we do – the bill of electronic voting abroad. Why do we think: can a country with democratic will really allow the luxury or injustice of premeditatingly obstructing political participation, the political rights of such an important sector of its people? Can a country like Catalonia advance without guaranteeing the participation, for example, of such important cities..., of the second most important city of Catalonia, how could Sabadell or Terrassa be? Why don't we deceive or conjugate anyone: what happened today is this, premeditatingly obstructing the political participation of many people, thousands of Catalans and Catalans living abroad. And this was done through incompatibility, the incompetence of the Spanish State by multiplying the delays, reducing electoral times, no institutional advertisements, etc. But, above all – it has already been said here – through the fame, sadly famous plea vote introduced to the reform of the LOREG of 2010. That if the name you already deserve, huh? , its consequences have been harmful: to place the abstention by over 90 per cent or to place the electoral participation, which ranged from 28 per cent to 34 per cent, in a sad and sad 3 per cent to between 3 per cent and 7 per cent. These are the data that, by itself, as we would say, popularly or to my people, are guarded and that should have motivated government initiatives, huh? , urgent and resolutive to clear the plane. It didn't happen; it didn't happen at all despite the siren songs we hear here today – it didn't happen at all. And more importantly, we see that at the meeting a few days ago there was in Madrid between the International Federation of Catalan Entities with Catalan MPs and Senators so as to agree an initiative, the priests were these. They were: reforming Article 42 of the LOREG, that is to say, extending the calendar to fifty-four days, so that it does not coincide at Christmas, which took place at an urgent level; proposing a reform of Article 75 of the LOREG in the system of repealing the requested vote and, moreover, introducing to the LOREG explicit reference of the electronic vote so as to favor precisely read with the one dealt with today in Parliament. And it's not just about the names of people, just because it has great political significance, because it highlights the democratic deficits of the Spanish State. But also, and let's not be fooled, put in evidence the inability of the same Parliament of Catalonia to approve a law of its own. And it is between these two realities, the incompetence of the Spanish State and the incapacity of this very Parliament, that we must move, that we must give an answer to what the Catalan communities ask of us to alienate, that we must know how to manage the "while" that the Councillor Romeva gave. We share with other groups in the chamber the will of the electoral stand and to link all these questions in a more general debate. If this sharing is concrete and is realized during this legislature and we can introduce it, welcome follow. Now, we don't share standing by, sitting still, huh? Waiting for a supposed opportunity to arrive and for a supposed consensus to arrive that some sure they don't want or pretend. As our spokesman said in the debate of the young lady, which was made reference before, we are all aware of the efforts invested in the electoral law and its final result and, therefore, at least for the UPC, to be cured in salvation. Catalan communities outside of the country cannot continue to suffer from either the premeditated incompetence of the Spanish State or the fevers of this Parliament. The Catalan communities abroad ask us to respond to their needs; they demand, with all the reason of the world, to be treated as subjects of right, and to do so implies that they exercise their vote, their right to vote, their right to participate politically. Moreover, there are also reasons for political exceptionality in our country. As some of the previous Members observed with fear, and with all the reason of the world, here it is not just about Catalan communities abroad; it is true – it is true – that it is about rights, and how we guarantee the participation of all persons residing in foreign countries, regardless of their political option, or their ideology, or their position before a reference or a constituent process. It's a great democratic challenge that we have. And that's what he's going to advise on, that democratic challenge that we think the government is obligated to do is what we don't see in the law, or we don't see it at all. Even though we believe that it is a guarantor, that its writing is impeccable, there is one thing that, for us, some here defend it, but for us it flows precisely, and it is a law made in the shadow, in total submission, eh? , it is an appendix of the LOREG – of the LOREG –; precisely there, the mark in which Article 75 is given and is maintained and, ultimately, the requested vote, which makes it impossible to vote for the Catalan communities. Do you really believe that Mr. Fernández Díaz or any other Fernández Díaz or the same current minister, the Zoido, will allow the use of the cents or give us the telematic key necessary to request the requested vote? We do not know on what basis the absolute faith of the Department of Governance that the State will collaborate in the electronic vote in Catalonia is based. If they dig it and get caught, get the axes. We don't believe it. Frankly, from the CUP, as well as celebrating the initiative and seeing in the electronic vote a good solution to the problem of the participation of residents abroad, we think there are serious doubts, doubts that are in line with the unilaterality need in which to adopt in the future some political decisions. In a sovereign way, through the motion presented for this parliamentary group last October, this Parliament expressed the will that, during the processing of the bill, mechanisms relevant to making full implementation possible are established. The approved motion committed the parliamentary groups of this Parliament to be active in the repeal, in the petition...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.144.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.145.0	... of derogation – I conclude, President – immediate of Article 75. And it made clear to us that Parliament understood that Catalans residing abroad must be able to participate fully in the constituent elections and in all the other referendum initiatives that this Government or this Parliament can call. We insist...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.146.0	I'm having a hard time, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.147.0	Finish it. I'm done – I'm done –, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.148.0	...but it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.149.0	This will be our line of work: Parliament's agreements, and so let's face the process of this law. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.150.0	Next, has the word Lord Lluís Corominas, in representation of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.151.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. To greet the councillor, obviously, the secretary general and the people who have participated in the elaboration of this bill. In fact, the first person we would ask for, counsel, is to change the name, because this broad name of "procedure to vote, electronically, from residents to foreigners could be "procedure to vote, by the way, the people who live outside Catalonia". And, therefore, it has been said, this bill of law is to cover up an obvious fault that there is at this time. Before I go into the presentation I wanted to say, I also refer to this report by the Central Electoral Board a few days ago, which is on the website of the Central Electoral Board; it is thirty-five fulls that do not have waste. And, Mrs. Esperanza García, I'm sorry to tell you that hyperventilates and victims must also be the Central Electoral Board, because they share all the criteria that exist in this law, respect its legality and respect whether it can be done or not, etc. And, therefore, I recommend that you read it, because it's a rigorous report, and when you see it here you have to donate rigorous data. Then I'll tell you some of the things you said, which seems to me to have risked a lot; in any case, in our favor. Well, the 2011 law was not a good law, but this report, precisely, says: "Since the 2011 reform, the performance of the Spanish Foreign Administration has assumed a fundamental role in the proper functioning of the vote of residents abroad. And for thirty-five pages he put up eight motions for which the law of 2011 did not go well. And five of these reasons are for the malfunction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the consulates, the embassies and the Post Office. And, therefore, we place things where they are. It is also paradoxical that the Central Electoral Board has now given us reason. As the Councilwoman said, we have made a type of resource, and we have called for extensions of terms, and, curiously, when we asked for the Catalan Parliament elections, the terms are not extended, and, in turn, for the state elections, they were extended. A criterion, obviously, objective – sure. Well, in the words of the same Central Electoral Board..., finish this report by titling the law and the application of the law, above all, of unconstitutional, which is already very big – on page 25, concretely. Well, we need to react, and the government has done so through the council, and we appreciate it; we share the sense of this law from Juntes pour el Si, and, obviously, we need to guarantee the right to vote. There are three basic shortcomings at this time: the issue of mobility, which is obviously solved with an Internet connection, as I said now; the issue of excessive time throughout the process, which is obviously simplified a lot, and that of security, which here I will entertain a little more. Of course, the new technologies have evolved a lot in these past two years and there are a lot of countries that have made many successful experiences, many. But as if we don't mess with each other for which countries, I recommend that you read in the report from page 17 to 21, precisely from this report, all international experiences, and I recommend that you see this world map in which these little ones that are not seen are in those that are forbidden; the blaus are in those that are implanting it or in the process of implantation, and the greens, in those that are already implanted. So, who's a minority? Rigorous, Mrs. Esperanza García, please. In any case, I would like to thank you for... saying that in the world there are 250 countries, as there are none, according to us, 193 or 201, we must have already settled among the independent countries. Therefore, welcome to the cause; there is everyone, as we have always said, and, therefore, will also be welcome in this aspect. [[Greetings.]] Well, besides, I want to remind them that as many Citizens as the People's Party have participated in the ponies of this chamber over the election law. And in both cases they were in favour of electronic voting. I recall Article 8..., Proposal 8 of 2010 and Proposals 27 and 28 of 2015. In any case, if they have changed the criteria, that to 195,000 citizens who cannot vote, in any case, we will already give them their phones, because the truquins and explain the causes why now they do not want it to be voted in an electronic way. From a competitive vantage point, it's still harder, what you've said. Central Electoral Board of Spain, huh? – it is not from Catalonia, because it is not in tenim, for the moment – : « The legal provision would then constitute an unprecedented form of exercise of the right to vote recognized in article 23 of the Constitution. In the Spanish case, they could introduce this mode of voting both the state legislator and the autonomous one. Oh, didn't they say we couldn't do it? So, we do it; we do it with this law. In any case, autonomous communities can legislate on this; so can we. And we understand, of course, that we want a law of our own and that we would obviously try to do what we can to keep it, but while it can also be partially legislated. Res forbids it; res forbids partial regulation. I would also like to thank them for reading the recommendations of all the international bodies, which say two things: one, implementation of the electronic vote, and, two, to do it progressively, which if it is possible to do, first, therefore, as this experience, in the vote of strangers, better. And the OSCE itself recommends it this way. We, of course, will support this process, because we are in a position to move from the 19th to the 21st century, in order to vote for the foreigners who live outside our country..., forgive me, for the Catalans who live outside Catalonia. And, in any case, a reminder: this law is urgent and necessary, but it also lowers costs, which is another of the main aspects of this law; it lowers a lot of costs, we already looked at it when we did the two questions. It also guarantees the secrecy and security of the vote. In a clear way, to all the countries that are doing so at this time, what happens? That they don't guarantee security? All political parties that engage in participatory processes and serve electronic voting in our internal processes, don't we trust it to be secret? Shall we manipulate them? You said something pretty big, Mrs. Esperanza García. Well, it's also a law of its own, and for some, obviously, it's a substantial element. And also that which is put so many times in the mouth, that they must keep the vote equal to the citizens, etcetera; until now there were not the same conditions of all the citizens to access equally to the vote. And you know that the vote must be universal, free, equal, direct and secret, and this "even so far was not so. Now it will be, with this you. Obviously we promote participation, with this law, and we also protect the right to vote. I'm done. You're already... both Citizens and PP, with these totality items, obviously you're not talking about the content of this law, you're talking about other things. In any case, I remind you that at this time, too, we cannot tackle other aspects of the Catalan electoral law because we did not agree, but above all because you do not want to agree on the electoral system. And I also remember that, in the proceedings that have taken place so far, we have always given out the rest of the proposals and you did not want to vote for them. In any case, what we ask you: stop opposing that Catalans can vote. Now you are opposed, Ciutadans and the People's Party...; the Catalans who live to alienate him, who cannot vote. And you also oppose that all Catalans cannot vote for our future freely with a reference. In any case, if they continue to oppose democracy, what will happen to them is that democracy will slap them. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.152.0	We're calling it a vote. Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.153.0	For direct allusions and contradictions. I'll make it work in the same turn; one, from the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.154.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.155.0	...of Mr. Corominas, and another, of Mr. Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.156.0	All right, Mrs. Garcia. One minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.157.0	One minute. Okay. First, if rigor is required, rigor must be exercised. First of all: the Central Electoral Board, which I know, in Spain, is neither the guarantee nor the guarantee of the constitutionality of laws. That's the first one. Secondly, when it comes to countries that have withdrawn this electronic vote for lack of security, deprivation of vote and security and reliability of the system, this Member does not do so directly – directly – the constitutional courts and even all the supreme courts, as I said well in the case of Germany. Point three. The vote asked for, it is true that it has difficulties. This does not mean that neither from the People's Party nor from the Government of Spain does it mean that all the Spanish citizens, including the Catalans, have right and facilitated and guarantee the right to access to the vote, all the contrary; it was the last time that the LOREG was reformed, and it was the 20th of October..., of a law that established in 2011 the vote « asked thanks to Mr Zapatero, who at that time ruled in Spain, and with the vote in favour precisely, Mr Corominas, of Convergence and Union. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.158.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.159.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.160.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.161.0	Thank you. Well, Mr. Corominas has said that we do not want Catalans voting abroad. I have said the opposite on several occasions in the Faristol of this Chamber; therefore, it seems to me that denying what all the Members have been able to hear... seems incredible to us. And it seems to us that it is incredible, moreover, that it has been said in those terms, that it has reproached us that we want to go beyond democracy, and that democracy, as it has said, will enslafará. I wanted to say to Mr Corominas that that is not a proper language in a Chamber of Democratic politicians. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.162.0	We shall proceed... we shall then proceed to the joint vote of the totality papers presented for the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia and for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Anyway... [[Pause.]] The vote begins. Total votes were rejected by 34 votes to 98, with no abstentions. Therefore, the draft law of the electronic voting procedure for Catalans and Catalans residing in the foreigner continues its processing. [[Greetings.]] And they suspect the session to two-quarters of four in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.163.0	It's part of the session. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] [[Health Care Universalization Law Project (totality debate)]] [[200-00018/11]] Total debate on the Universalization Bill for Health Care. It's the fifth point of the order of the day. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules, he presented the initiative, on behalf of the Government of the Generality, Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.164.0	Thank you, Madam President. Welcome, the deputies present; thank you for being here, senior members of the Health Department. It's an important day for the government, it's an important day for the Department of Health, because effectively this government has come to do things like what we're presenting today. We have come to give rights to people; we have come to give, above all, social rights to people, to the citizen who live in Catalonia. And the right we shield today for the law is a fundamental right, it's an absolutely basic right to guarantee the freedom of our citizens. We must be aware that there is a structural connection between freedom and social rights. We cannot talk about free people on the fringes of social rights, because they are precisely those rights that guarantee those benefits – salvation, education, decent work – without which we cannot exercise freedom. There is no freedom without education, without greeting, without decent work. Therefore, we have come to guarantee the freedom of everyone – the freedom of everyone – and the freedom of everyone means guaranteeing the rights, particularly the social rights, of everyone; « everyone means all citizens, and « citizens means the people who live in Catalonia, the residents of Catalonia. Therefore, we are especially happy to complete what we call ourselves, a project to make a society of free and equal people. It's a bit of a piece of legislation that allows us to understand how we got here. Year 86 passed the General Law of Sanitation at the conjunction of the Spanish State, which enshrined the concept of the national health system, which is based on the principle of universal access. Also the Ordering Law of the Catalonia Health System, of the year 1990, in its article 2.c, establishes the universalization of attendance for all citizens. Thus, the Statute of Independence of the Year 2006, in its article 23, literally says: "All persons have the right to have equal access..., all persons – persons –" have the right to have equal access and free access to health services of public responsibility. Therefore, it is very important that we understand that the law that is presented today is a law that does what it is to deploy a mandate that is written, voted, approved for this Parliament and ratified in reference to the Statute of Catalonia. The year 2010 the Parliament of Catalonia made a law, the Law 21, of access to the health care assistance of public coverage in charge of the Servant Català de la Salut, which somehow already formalized the universalization of public coverage of health for those professional collections that had not yet been incorporated; it is to say, architects, engineers, journalists, previews, etc. And the step back, once again, with our normal system– Status, the law of the year 2010– armor, as we will again do today, universal access to salvation on the part of all citizens, universal public coverage, the step back who gives it? The step reverses the government's return to social rights, which is the Government of the year 2012, the Spanish Government, in reference to the year 2012, the Government of the PP, which makes the year 2012 the Royal Decree 16 of that year, urgent measures to ensure the sustainability of the health system and to improve the quality and security of its services, which does everything contrary to what its title indicates. What are you doing? It breaks with the concept of the national health system. Therefore, the royal decree of the PP of the year 2012 is a rupture of a model that had followed the stable model, of consensus, since the year 1986; breaks with the Lluch law; breaks with the right to free assistance, and binds it... – universal–, and binds that right to free assistance to the condition of being insured for INSS, for the National Institute of Social Security; for people who do not have Spanish nationality, linked to being a European citizen or to having permission to reside in the State, and guarantees urgent attention to everyone, yes, but neither in terms of equality – nor in terms of equality. Therefore, this royal decree restricts universality precisely for those most vulnerable social sectors; restricts access to salvation precisely for those who are citizens, citizens within us, and those who are citizens within us, who need it most. Those most in need of free and universal access to the system of salvation are those who find it difficult: immigrants in an irregular situation, etc. We are talking about a collection of citizens who in many cases need important salvation – important need for salvation – if we are aware that there is a correlation between social determinants and the state of salvation of people. Therefore, let us harm those who most need the support of public institutions. The generation of the year 2013, there is an appeal of unconstitutionality of the Government of the Government of Catalonia against this royal decree that at these times is pending resolution. What was it, from Catalonia, immediately, to try to deal with the socially regressive effects of this royal decree? Three instructions have been made, at the length of these years; three instructions have been approved: the first, the year 2012; the second, the year 2013, and the third, which is the one that is in force today, the year 2015. Instructions. Who is competent to dictate these instructions? Servei Català de la Salut. Therefore, with a rule of a lower standard, an attempt has been made to minimize the impact of this royal decree. Instructions from the Català de la Salut Service that they have been progressively making is to extend coverage to the collection of foreigners not covered by the Royal Decree; that they have tried to guarantee gratuity in urgent care for people without resources, and that they have allowed to give public health coverage, on the margin of the Royal Decree, to some 135,000 people since the year 2012. That is to say, thanks to this royal decree..., to these three instructions, we have been able to protect 135,000 people, which has meant a cost of 170_million euros per year, which is social inversion. Because expenditure on salvation is not expenditure, expenditure on salvation is social investment; guaranteeing rights avoid many other problems and build a more cohesive society. The government has done more. The government has made a deal..., on March 2, 2015 it made a deal with the Red Cree, and still on September 30, 2016 – it is said, not so many weeks ago – the Català Health Service issued a resolution on emergency care, which is a resolution that operates the circuits to ensure, effectively, the free provision of urgent services to all people without resources, pregnant and underage, who are the ones provided for in the same royal decree. Why, if we have these instructions, which somehow minimize the socially regressive impact of the royal decree, do we have to make a law? We have to make a law. Do we have enough with the instructions? We don't have enough, we have to take a step further, which is the step we're taking today. We need to make a law, because with the instructions, we don't solve everything. From the outset, we do not forget, we are talking not only about doing what the State says; we are talking about doing what the entire international doctrine says, we are talking about shielding the universality of health care as, for example, the International Covenant on Economic and Social Rights and Cultural Rights of the United Nations, of the year 66 – public international law; we are talking about doing what the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union says: guaranteeing the universality of health care; we are talking about doing what the Declaration of the General Assembly of the United Nations of September 2012 says: guaranteeing the universality of health care; we are talking about, therefore, completing with what are international consensus. Why do we want a law? From the outset, because to a right as important as this one we have to give you as much legal protection as possible. If we have to guarantee the right of access to all people, we have to do what it is, like a right. And, therefore, there is not enough to do this by means of an instruction or a decree or an order; this must be done for you. A right as important as this one we want to guarantee with the maximum standard rank possible. And the highest standard possible today, to our institutional system, as to any other democracy, provide the laws – the laws. Then, what are the main changes, the main improvements, that incorporate the bill compared to the current situation? From the outset – very important – we eliminate the three-month grace period to access primary care and specialized care. The royal decree plus the instructions allow three_months after proving the administrative situation of a resident on behalf of a city, three_months after, therefore, having registered, has access to primary care and specialized care. The law ends with this; the law does not only say access for everyone, but the law says access for everyone, "access for everyone in equal conditions and from the first moment. This would be the summary of the law that we present today: everyone has right to the entire portfolio from the first moment, from the first moment in which he demonstrates his residency condition. Therefore, we associate the availability of the individual health card with the registration. The registration is the administrative requirement that the law determines to access the health card, which is what gives us the right, the entry card to our public health system. He did. The padro is the main road, it has to be the ordinary road. We must hope that all the citizens of our country, regardless of their employment situation, regardless of their administrative situation, have control. But as we are aware that there is a part of the population coming from third parties, from other countries, which has some difficulties in accessing the standard in the first time of residence in Catalonia, the same law already provides – the same law already provides – that the standard is not exclusively and only the only way to accredit the citizenry. For this reason, you already foresee that other related criteria that allow you to access the healthcare tab can be credited for regulatory deployment. Therefore, those collectivities with difficulty in accessing the registration..., in the regulation it will unfold in which way to regulate the other criteria of the arrangement. Then, too, the law resolves public coverage for Catalans residing abroad during their stay in our country. We take advantage of this law because those Catalans who are not residents, but who are Catalans, who are residents of the foreigner, when they are in Catalonia have the condition of citizens as well as the rest. And, therefore, the law also allows us to resolve this pending assignment. Therefore, I believe that all those who believe in freedom, all those who believe in the equality of the citizens, and who believe in it honestly, all those who believe in the social rights of people, all those who believe in the dignity of people, all those who believe that the dignity of people does not depend on their administrative situation, all those who believe that people have dignity because they are people, and therefore, because they are citizens, can only applaud that today there is a text like that which is presented before this chamber, can only give support. The public health system at the disposal of all citizens, the entire portfolio of services from the first moment. It would be very difficult for us to understand that someone who believes in democracy cannot be in favor of a law like this. Thank you, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.165.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. In order to defend the totality presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, Ms. Marisa Xandri has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.166.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor, Members, Members, well, I, in the first place, would say to the Councillor that I believe in democracy, I believe in freedom, I believe in equality, and I also believe in social justice, huh? That said, the People's Party has presented a statement to the whole of this pre-draft of the law, basically, and I will be very frank, because with this text that presents us with the doors to tourists and irregular immigrants to enjoy our health care system in the same way that we do Catalans and new people who have recognized our residence and who, like any of us here, pay our taxes and contribute to the social security box. And you know what you mean, that, from our point of view? So, quite clearly, it's a social injustice, a hardship to all those of us who find ourselves in the system, whether born here or not. We have worked and paid the taxes religiously because precisely now we can have health care that, unfortunately, has much to wish for but that, to be sure, it is one of the best in the world. That said, I think it's necessary to contextualize the political moment we live in, and I don't mean the process and their desire to proclaim a Catalan republic, because it's science-fiction, but I want to talk about the real political moment, right? Since the 20th of October we have a new government in Spain. A new legislature has begun, which, as you all know, will involve consensus and agreement in matters of law, among which in the field of salvation. Today, at the state level, the People's Party and Ciutadans have promised us, works comets, "to guarantee the universality of the coverage of the national health system, ensuring the sustainability of a public health system of quality and free of charge in an extensive decentralisation. And I want to repeat and point out: "ensure the sustainability of a public system of quality and free. And in the framework of this pact, they will take the appropriate decisions that precisely give the maximum coverage. For this reason, I also take advantage of the call to Ciutadans so that I can support this call to the totality, in the sense that it is resolved in the first place at the national level. That said, I think that before I approve of different projects, one for each community on the sidelines of what is being done at the level of the state government, the truth is that it seems like a disproposal to us. Clearly, some of us here can present this pre-project today. You're obvious. But we think that before we pull for the right on this question it would be better to wait for what will finally be done with the legislation in force. And it's also true that in other autonomous communities all the demands are met, but it's also true that social reality is not the same as Catalonia, where, let me remind you, in the last decade more than one thousand immigrants have arrived. And that's a date. No better or worse, but it's a given. And what is obvious is that the economic impact it has at the time of social policies must be valued. And it is obvious that if we want to give a free and quality service and reduce waiting lists in all areas of salvation we must prioritize, because, as is obvious, users and professionals end up feeling. Counselor, you know more than anyone that we have a health system that runs away from hands, that we can't afford, and instead of looking for realist solutions, they wonder that here in Catalonia everyone – everyone – will have sanitation guaranteed in all areas. After we complain about health tourism, which is – there is – a counselor, and that the same people who have fallen behind spoke ill of their irregular compatriots. And I want to take advantage of the measures taken by the Government of the State in the previous legislature, which have allowed us to strengthen universality, equity, cohesion and efficiency, as well as modernisation, of the system, to expand the service portfolio and to improve the strategy to face the own chronicity of a country that is heading for the life expectancy of the European Union. Miri, so criticized for some, the Royal Decree 16/2012 has clarified us..., thanks to him, the concept of insurance and beneficiaries, and has recognized the right to persons who for decades have been expelled from the system, in the case of professionals such as lawyers, engineers or architects. And here I want to remind you that the same Socialist Party has recognized this lack of effort to resolve this issue in the last minute of its mandate through a reform of Law 33/2011, the General Law on Public Health, of October 4. I mean, in the last minute of the legislature. Moreover, since 2012 the long-running stops that have exhausted the benefit also have right to healthcare. Certainly, a right that was lost with the Royal Decree Law 1/1992, of urgent measures on the promotion of work, of the Socialist Party. That said, I would also like to state that the Parliamentary Group of the PP at the Congress of Deputies had advanced to this reality in 2009 with a GNP on universal and free healthcare for all Spaniards and which would culminate with the royal decree of 2012. And as for the foreign citizens who are in Spain in an irregular administrative situation, our country has the most protectionist legal framework for people without rights to healthcare coverage in Europe. The best legal framework and the most solid. In particular, the regulations guarantee irregular immigrants health care in cases of emergency resulting from a severe illness or accident until the high doctor is given; in the same way, care is given to the pregnant, part and afterpart, and in all cases to the minor of divorce years. Moreover, citizens have access to all health protection and public prevention programs, vaccinations and prevention and control of infectious diseases. And in the past year it has worked to take a step further, which is to harmonize, together with the autonomous communities, the different actions in the field of health promotion, prevention of diseases and provision of health care to foreigners not registered or authorized..., which supposes that the gateway to the health system for these people is, as for the rest of the citizen, in primary care centers..., and that it guarantees the dispensation of health care to these people in a situation of vulnerability due to the lack of economic resources with effective permanence in our country that do six months that are registered. Why did I want to do this reflection? Why put the policies of the People's Party in health care matters to manifest themselves? So, look, because I want to make it very clear that from the central government is doing everything possible to meet the maximum number of people, whether from here or there, but in terms of social justice. I, well, let's go back to Catalonia. As a matter of urgency, here we have: a preliminary project which establishes that the condition of a resident must be accredited by means of a combination of ownership in an assembly of Catalonia, but, taking into account the special circumstances of certain collections, with a subsidiary and complementary character, allows the residence to be accredited by means of other rules of association, taking into account the diversity of these collections and the heterogeneity and variability of these circumstances. In short, as proposed, from the approval of this law in Catalonia it will be possible to make use of the health services of any person, apart from their administrative situation. That's it. Residents, yes, but as it stands there is a key that will allow you to attend – in fact it is already done in cases of urgency, it would only be missing – everyone, and in the different areas of sanitation. In fact, what you're going to do with this law is regulate something that is done after the Convergence and Union Government disobeys the 2012 decree, but now they're announcing it with a bright flag that, if there's no doubt, will produce a strong effect. I think there's a point in saying things for his name. I know that politically what I'm going to say is wrong, but if we don't get into trouble, the ball will get bigger every time. There is no health system in the world that can incorporate more than 1 million new people in two years without feeling 'n. Why? So, because we have a health system that we can't afford. In Catalonia there are more than 7_million_i_mig health nets, more than 7,000 workers of 400 CAP, more than 800 local consultants and a couple of hospitals in the public sector. A few countries in Europe have just arrived an immigrant who has health and education in franc. Most of them only guarantee the emergency service. In Germany, for example, with a much higher GDP than ours, Social-Democratic Chancellor Schröder, more than twelve years ago, did not only introduce co-payment, but established that the only free service to irregular immigrants would be emergency. On March 22, when the government decided to bring this preliminary draft to the plenary, the councillor alleged that it was a legal duty that favors 65,000 persons regardless of their administrative status, that 65,000 more persons who can access the entire service portfolio is a legal duty. Counselor, what is a legal and social justice duty is to give the coverage that all those who have paid or paid taxes and who have shared or contributed to social security deserve. No matter what your country of origin is, obviously, but at least it has brought something here. You, the same day, just like today, avoided donating economic data, because second said it's an irrelevant data. His words: "It is a question of guaranteeing this right, on the margin..., economic. They're surprising – they're surprising. Miri, I just want to remind you that in your first speech to Parliament you recognized that the issue of waiting lists, one of the endemic problems of Catalan sanitation, was difficult to solve and that they fit like a minimum of 1,000_million euros; in your speech to Parliament. Well, the truth is that we'd like to subscribe to this pre-project, to be able to pull this whole thing out. But in the terms in which the future law is laid down, we are convinced that it will still provide health services. All the way, we'll keep talking about it at the length of its processing. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.167.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. To fix its position, has the word Lord Martín Barra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.168.0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all my apologies for the cold if there is a cough. From Ciutadans we are glad that the introduction of this bill allows us to have a debate that we believe needs to be held. As you know, health is a priority for us, and it is precisely because it seems to us to be such an important issue that, as Mrs Xandri has already commented, we include it among the one hundred and fifty points that we negotiate with the PP. In particular, point 44 says..., and let me read it textually and completely, because textually and completely it says: "To ensure the universality of the coverage of the national health system, ensuring the sustainability of a public, universal, quality and free health system and ensuring equality in access with the same basic portfolio of services for all citizens - it ends - "in a framework of broad decentralization. And what we signed with the PP we had previously included in the pact with the PSOE. In particular, at the point where he talks about rebuilding and modernizing the welfare state – something that Citizens have among their priorities – on page 44 of that document he also said – I quote textually –: "Reestablishing the universality of the coverage of the national health system, reforming health legislation to ensure the sustainability of a public health system, universal, of quality, free, with equity of access by citizens, with the same basic portfolio of services for all citizens, in a framework of broad decentralization. Since our agreement with the PSOE, and as one of the different visions that can be addressed in this debate, Citizens already assumed that this system could be implemented. However, it should also be remembered that there are other legitimate and viable perspectives, which in fact apply in European countries of our environment; not only in Germany, as Mrs Xandri has mentioned, but Denmark or Sweden would be some examples. We therefore believe that it is good that we re-open the debate on issues related to the universality and quality of the national health system. We have already done so in our governance agreements, and today we will speak again of equality; we will speak again of equality in a common way for the whole of Spain. Why would it make sense for health coverage to be different here than in neighbouring communities? For those of us who believe in the equality of the Spaniards, the answer is clear: no. I open quotes: "We believe in a public and universal health system, solidarity, equitable for all citizens, without social or geographical differences, economically sustainable – because the above must also be compatible with the sustainability of the system – and that it guarantees us a health system of quality, safe and efficient to all people, regardless of their place of residence. For us, the health system is a key part of the welfare society that we want to build in Spain, along with education, social services and care for dependency. Public and universal coverage is an important redistributive element of income, enabling a more just and cohesive society to be achieved. Public health care is a key element for reducing inequality, a key objective of the Europe 2020 strategy, in which Spain participates – I close quotes. This is what we think of Citizens; this is what our electoral programme says. And we are surprised, Mrs Xandri, that in the PP they oppose the debate by presenting an amendment to the whole, because from now on the debate is obliged if they want us to take Spain forward with consensus, with union, with the reforms that are necessary and that Spanish and Catalans need among themselves. And we are glad that this health debate will take place, because let us remember that this derives from the Royal Decree 16/2012, which modified the conditions of insurance in Spain, conditioning it to concrete assumptions, of all known. But little has been discussed about what was also said by that royal decree in Chapter II; Chapter II which sought to establish a common portfolio of services in the national health system, in which Citizens believe that we must make additional efforts to achieve this. Does it make sense for one vaccine to be administered in one autonomous community and not in another? Let me tell you my own personal experience. My eldest daughter was born in Zaragoza. Within a few days, as soon as my wife was able to travel, they moved to where I then had my job, a village in Toledo. When his maternal discharge ended, he moved back to Catalonia to incorporate himself into his work. Well, then, the CAP pediatrician had to develop a personal and specific program for my daughter to be able to adjust the vaccines she had received there or not, in time, to be able to cover the vaccination system that we follow here. Does it make sense that the vaccine schedules of a healthy child cause these problems to parents who have to move home or to health care professionals? What is the difference between a healthy child from Zaragoza, Toledo or Barcelona who justifies different prevention plans? I say to you: it has no meaning or health justification. And another question: does it make sense for a Spanish citizen to have problems accessing the health system or obtaining drugs, because the health card is not common? We are in the 21st century, that is clear, but does it turn out that a doctor cannot get the patient's medical history when travelling on vacation, because in each autonomous community we have different software? Mr. Comín, gentlemen of the government..., in this case you, because you are here: are you going to work to make this work? Because this would benefit Catalans who have to move to other parts of Spain, as happened to my wife, who had problems with this issue. Are they going to work to fix what or are they going to keep putting sticks on the wheel, as usual? Please note that this I am talking to you, this is also universality. You have used the word 'equality' several times in your speech, I remind you. And, if we are talking about solidarity, we should also open the debate on the bilaterality of the system with health tourism. We don't talk about this much. Do we really have a bilateral agreement on equal terms? In Citizens we think of Europe, of all the policies that make us grow in its improvement, never in those that can distance us. And it is that being on an exciting project, such as the European one, is also that: thinking about everyone and making laws that are inclusive, starting from the fact that there are different models and that we have to take them all into account to address this debate in depth. From Citizens we believe that, instead of decrees, we must sit down and negotiate, to find all those points that will improve the system and that will, of course, help to reduce social inequalities and to have a more humane political view of reality, which is the one that is affected when it is legislated by improvised decrees. We must listen and know the reality, which tells us that that decree law does not apply anywhere. Because, gentlemen of the PP, you yourselves have at some point recognized that you were wrong. We need a better understanding of the health system, we need to discuss whether the best point of access is that of emergencies or whether we need to empower primary care, as we advocate here in a motion that we all approve, so that it is the real axis of the health system. It is important to know in depth what happens to health cards, the difficulties and obstacles in obtaining affiliation data in order to be able to open a clinical history, so that there are no duplications, to reduce transcription errors, which make it possible for the same user to have several open clinical histories. And you have to know that even if it's not something common, it's not, a user can access the health care system with a borrowed card, and that creates a lot of problems. We're in Catalonia. Good. We know that the debate on the health system is very important, because here, while some prioritize using public money to separate, and not to create state structures, no, no, but to improvise structures without content for an imaginary state, to speak of the "neverendum and its endless loops, we have chronically collapsed hospitals and waiting lists of shame – and the influenza epidemic has not yet begun. This is the reality in Catalonia. Here we have a really unenviable health situation, and we have said it many times: we must add to the efforts to improve the health system and not to do as you do, which give everything to your identity plans, which lead only to frustration and fracture. While here some managers are charging more and more, the people who suffer have to wait in a hallway to be attended to. So yes, yes, we want there to be debate, because we believe that there are many issues that need to be discussed from the centrality, from the wisdom, from the professionalism to add to all those who know in depth the complexity of the system. And I would not need to be told, but I will repeat it: that, as in all other matters, we will always be within the institutional respect, the competitive framework and the applicable legislation. Because respecting the common rules there is a lot of room for improving the health system. Other autonomous communities have already done so, they have already done the necessary reforms. And we can do it by respecting those margins, without leaving the law, where only confrontations, failures and frustration can be achieved. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] To participate within the statutory framework – and I conclude – and constitutionally in this debate, in the improvement of services for all Catalans, in improving the accessibility of the system, in improving waiting lists and in that longetter of issues to be dealt with, they can always count on us. We will therefore vote no to the amendment as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.169.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then comes the words of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.170.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. In the previous interventions we felt that there were people or deputies who put in value some of the things that are done from Catalonia or Spain. My group wants to put two things in value: the Lluch law and the 2010 law of President Montilla, two laws that at the time ensured that we are all now defending: the universality of the health system. Only with this entry could I tell you what is the position of the Socialist Group, which will vote against the whole question presented by the People's Group, and which makes it difficult to share some of the interventions or the intervention of Mrs Xandri. It is important to continue with this processing of the Law of Universalization with regard to public foundations, to do so urgently, discarded already the unique reading, so that the debate, like they made the attachments, can improve the text presented. And it's important, basically because it's about settling with legal guarantees – basically insisting on legal guarantees – universalization of healthcare with public funds, through the Català de la Salut Service, and eliminating the inequalities that may exist between persons residing in Catalonia. As the Spanish Constitution said, the law of 86, Lluch law, and Catalonia..., and their subsequent dispositions, as from the 2010 law, did not only ensure public coverage of the collection that they like, say, the coverage of social security – and this term is important, after we see it – but it is when it is extended to registered persons in any municipality in Catalonia who believe they do not have access to public health care, and also to persons who belong to collections at risk of social exclusion, regardless of whether they are registered in any municipality in Catalonia. It recognizes the preamble of the law or bill that they present to us today; it recognizes it, it recognizes the decisive moment of the universalization process through the law of 2010. The current project, in its preamble, and with much fineness – it has not been so on the part of the councillor, but it has been so on the preamble – says: "Getting out of the economic crisis, the State has adopted some legislative measures that can be considered a fracture in which the national health system has been. I am grateful that the Councillor has been more radical, because in reality, short and short, what he means is that from the law of sustainability the decree of 2012 wanted to guarantee the sustainability of the national health system, obviously, on a right: on the right to the salvation of citizens. This ruling of the People's Party reconnects the right to free public health care with social security and pulls back the rights achieved by leaving without health coverage all those who have no connection with social security. For a short while it serves us that now the same People's Party says that in its moment it is either not applicable or, in any case, that it was wrong. In one year, according to the data available, 873,000 health cards had been withdrawn, of which 137,000, more or less, were supposed to correspond to Catalonia. Therefore, what he represented, short and short, as he said, is the violation of the right to salvation. It is true that in Catalonia the different instructions – not the law, which is what we are discussing now – have tried to address and do what we thought was the defense of a right. This is what the bill wants: that health care supplies all those residents in Catalonia, regardless of their administrative situation; whether or not they have the condition of insurance, they get the current three_months of lack of control and open the door to establishing other criteria for regulatory deployment. From now on and from this moment and from this debate, today, we open the door to debate and to the better, if that is the case, of the contents of the law; a law, which I think is worth it, but it expands in the recognition of rights. During the period of allegation, a few more have already been incorporated, and I think it is good and grateful that this has been done, such as ensuring access to public health care for Catalans and Catalans living abroad, and that they are not covered by the system when they move temporarily to Catalonia, under the same conditions as residents. It was a little strong that, since they've gone, the day they come to see us 'no public health coverage. But I think the law, collecting these attachments, that's it. There are two aspects that I would like... and that in the debate I think we will have, in the committee and with the appearances, time to discuss. One: it will be very interesting to respect the collective with greater risk of social exclusion, in which we will have to focus many of our efforts so that healthcare is a reality, because it is not only a matter of its salvation, but of public salvation. These collections, for instance, because of ignorance and economic difficulties, are too much to put themselves in the hands of health professionals, and that's what I think we need to change with the law. It will also be very interesting with what is the regulatory deployment. Counselor, there are some allegations that ask him: "Deploy him to the law, I did not expect the rule. Anyway, it's gonna be fun. And it's going to be very curious not to cause harm, not to generate... And here I would like to make a point..., I think not in the same terms as Ciutadans or the People's Party did, but yes, the regulation, through access and donation..., in the same way that it will donate the health card and establish..., we do not foment what there is also a fear between the population – and I believe that, in this sense, it has also been collected – that it is the bad name of health tourism, because it is neither tourism nor really health. And, therefore, I think that in the same way we need to be able to cover it. Because we will give security and because the defense of a right will be this and it will not be a fraud of the law, which is what we must try to cover. So, let's repeat our negative vote to the slogan, this goal to the totality, and let's hope that urgent processing can bring about a law that is expected, desired, and that what it does is to recognize a right of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.171.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next is the words of Ms Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.172.0	Thank you. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies, guests, guests to the rostrum. I think it's worth putting things in their place. We are talking, no more or less, about a human right: the right to salvation. Regardless of a person's administrative situation, a person has this recognized right, and therefore... And so we are told by international standards, or there is no possible interpretation in this sense; we are told by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the WHO International Health Regulations or the European Social Charter, among others. But, moreover, in this Parliament of Catalonia, which must also complete our Statute of Autonomy, as we make clear in Article 29, which establishes that all people have the right to have equal and free access to health services of public responsibility, and says: "in the words that establish laws. But we also need to make it clear that legislators cannot exclude from the exercise of a right that belongs to the person, of a right of speech of the people, a certain group. And, therefore, what has been done with the royal decree of 2012 is an absolute barbarity. And we cannot remain impassable, from this Parliament, and not change it and not act with respect. The Royal Decree 16/2012 caused changes that have already been explained, that have human faces, as was also said. About 900,000 people who in one year lost their health card in Spain and, therefore, their right to access the health system to all of Spain. I can't put up a straight line of tourists and irregular immigrants that existed in Catalonia or Spain before 2012, when this right was recognized; I can't take a photo of a line of health tourists, irregular immigrants before 2012, and we're taking from the year 85 with this right recognized. Therefore, Mrs. Xandri, counts on what kind of populist statements – these, yes – make you from this rostrum. In Catalonia, after this royal decree of 2012, it certainly acted, but it did not act well. An instruction was made the same year 2012 to stop the effect of that royal decree, but it did not stop for all people who live, live and live with all of us in Catalonia. Later it was modified, later, but not so much with these modifications have we managed to solve the problem correctly. What we have achieved, only, is to make a very bureaucratic system of getting a health card; a system that generates doubts, that generates interpretations, and, therefore, arbitrariness in the application. And that, there are entities in the sector..., and I want to highlight especially the work done for the Pasucat platform – which, of course, today are some representatives, among the public – during these years, to denounce it. Since 2012, they have reported that the application of measures imposed on the market in Catalonia has not actually succeeded in guaranteeing a basic right of persons, such as the right to access the health system, during this time. So, obviously, yes, I need to put the solution and put it through the law. Allow me the falcon, the year 2015 we tried. At that moment, I say, I myself, as the deputy, defended a proposal from the law in this Parliament to try to settle it, via the law. He managed to get his processing started, but after that parliamentary filibusterism, which some of us are accustomed to curbing laws that are not of interest, he did not approve before the end of the legislature. We could have had this theme guaranteed by law since the summer of 2015, and it wasn't like that. Keep it up, I'll put it down, and we're happy that it's still... and more so, from a government proposal. We need to do this law, and we can do it. We can do so because we have powers, because we have sufficient means to guarantee, to continue to guarantee a public and universal health system for everyone; not only through Article 26– we have these powers – from the State, but also through Article 37.3 or 162.3. And I don't want to go to any more legal elements in order not to expand in this sense, but to remind them that we have been carrying since 2012 with warnings and demands from various bodies, such as the United Nations or the Council of Europe, tell us that this has to be resolved. So, yes, we have to do it, we have to put it down, we can't make deaf steroids. Health exclusion, moreover, does not benefit anyone, and therefore, we, like the country, ask for a solution. Health exclusion is a barbarity that puts everyone's public health at risk. Health exclusion involves steps in prevention, surveillance and control of communicable diseases such as society, and therefore public health. Health exclusion is not as effective as it is, so people have to go to an emergency, in primary accounts, from a moment earlier than a disease, but rather to an emergency with a delay in diagnosis and an aggravation of the condition, which makes their attention much more expensive. It has been shown with study that it is up to four times higher the cost of spending the attention in this way than if it is left from the primary. Health exclusion also generates more inequality, because there is also an exclusion from access to medicines and this makes it an increase in the patience of people who already have this exclusion. And the health exclusion, moreover, and to highlight it, has a brutal gender impact, as always with everything that has an impact on society, in class and also in gene. Because, for example, it makes it very difficult to detect cases of male violence, just to put one of the examples; we no longer talk about sexual salvation, etc. Therefore, we have to solve it, we can solve it, we can do it and we have to do it through it. So, obviously, I believe that with this argument it is clear that the Catalonian Parliamentary Group Yes, we can support the handling of this bill and vote against the Popular Party's move, the move to totality. Moreover, we want to make it easier, as it is, for the processing to be urgent and fast, and, therefore, we have this law and this guarantee as soon as possible. But we want there to be processing, and we want this processing to hear the voices of the people who have been carrying it since 2012 tell us what didn't work and what would work. Because to make a law that isn't all right, no; I mean, it doesn't come from a_me. We listen to the eyes, fix it, do it the best we can and avoid certain risks. And I'm already telling you some of the questions that we from our parliamentary group think are better off with this text; it's a good basis, but it's better. For example, it speaks of health care, health care, but not pharmaceutical care, and this can also be guaranteed. We are not happy with the concept of ‘non-administrative silence'. We do not believe that we are well placed on a subject of basic human rights that the silence administered, that the inefficiency of the Administration to answer, for example, is always against the person. We think we need to put in place measures to avoid falling back on the mistakes of what happened with the instructions, which generate inequalities depending on the territory, depending on the centre where you're going, depending on... that there's all the necessary information, that there's the guarantee that this information will be at all risk. But, besides, there's also the guarantee that it's punishment that you don't do well. And, therefore, we believe that a sanctioning regime would be hot in a law of this kind for public service providers who are incomplete... or that they are encouraging, to say the least, the failure of this regulation. Because it's a reality we've found since 2012 in Catalonia. And, therefore, we can't make the checks respect a situation like this. And we are concerned that with the repeal of Law 21/2010, which is done with the derogations provisions, I have some emptiness, some elements that are not moving into this law and that can generate some drilling, right? In some concepts, such as, for example, the existence of the health net itself, which does not end up appearing afterward. I'm done. Obviously, we'll allow this processing and do everything we can to be the best of you. And as long as we don't get tired of remembering that the real solution goes by because the royal decree of the State that caused all this damage, because we don't want an attack on human basic rights, neither here nor anywhere. We don't want him either for anyone else in Spain. But what is not a waste is that because the Rajoy government is not right, here we are not doing everything possible and more to put up with this barbarity, and that by ethical and human obligation, but also by selfish interest in public salvation of our own country and society, but also, even so, by legal obligation, that this Parliament is acting, and therefore we are legislating and correcting that from Spain it is being fought or being charged, from rights throughout the Spanish State, and that we will obviously continue to fight also from the Congress because it is resolved for the rest of Spanish and Spanish people and people who live in our State. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.173.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.174.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Some of the things have already gone out, but that's why it's important and necessary to remember them. Today we find ourselves in front of a bill that responds, in a certain way, or to a large extent, to a royal decree published in 2012, which supposedly claimed – or said it intended – to improve the quality and security of services. But at the same time, he was chained to another decree for which the condition of insurance and of beneficiaries was regulated to the effects of health care in Spain. And finally, I was chained and re-blended in 2013 with another decree where the basic requirements of the special health care arrangement were established for persons who do not have the condition of insurance or benefits of the national health care system. In the background, today we have found ourselves, and, therefore, today is responsible for a follow-up of decrees that were and are the consummation of the precariousness of the universal health system. And here I have a parenthesis: we should ask ourselves whether the universal health system really has ever existed. But these three decrees were the consummation of the precariousness of something that perhaps had never existed, and a real time in the welfare society. Because health exclusion is a huge ruin that has established the Spanish State as a full route to decompose the public health system and make it difficult to access public services, and to put the market exception as a health care issue. A full route that changed not only the forms we have to relate to the health system, but that changed the essence of this system. Because, moreover, on most occasions, autonomous governments used these state decrees as an alibi to execute restrictive right-to-right policies that they themselves could not do for competition issues; it was not just for ideological issues. And it is that in the background, in the Catalan Countries, in this neither was we an exception: health policies have been decanted and they have decanted to generate a network of administrative instructions that in many cases have been absolutely arbitrary and that have chronicled the inequality of situations. And it is that the famous decree of 2012 does not only affect immigrants, these names or wrong names« without papers, but it configures or is configured as the legal norm that changes the most basic social rules on the protection of the rights to health, in this case on the protection of the right to health. The decree and the instructions cannot be heard without two parallel phenomena: the mercantilization without the health system and the institutional and economic xenophobia that the Government of the People's Party, with the support of other political parties, has demonstrated in recent years. This bill of law, therefore, begins to put some solution to this. But, as has already been said and other parliamentary groups have said, we need to improve and ensure that this Parliament has already approved. And in this sense I do not refer to the Statute of Catalonia, to which I voted that I did not, but I refer to the statement of 9 November, the annex of which said: "In the field of health policies, the future government must guarantee universal access to public and quality health care, through the Catalan Health Service, to all people living in Catalonia. No person may be expelled for reasons of origin, have or do not have the condition of insured or beneficiary of the national health system, and regardless of whether or not it is included in the standard. And here it is very clear, it is clearer than in the bill. And in this sense we would like to make some considerations from the CUP - Call Constituent, because the existing passages, which exist to get the padro to some municipalities of Catalonia, the problems to ensure whether or not you are assured of the national health system, the only one that is being made is to present the welfare state as the sum of services and services and to access it as the sum of administered facts, a certain way of The Twelve Tests of Asterix and Obèlix. And it is that, besides, clearly eliminating the condition of not needing the standard of this bill, what is done is to restrict – less than the decree of 2012, obviously – access to the universal system and lay down certain exceptions to the universal attention. Because, if we follow the semantic logic or the one generated by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, universality cannot be restricted, conditioned, segmented or taxed, and this is not the case. Today is a good day to put into value the work done by so many entities and social movements defending universal health care, and also ask us why they continue to denounce, despite instructions, resolutions and now bills, which still does not guarantee universality. In this sense, the resolution of September 30 was, in a certain way, more ambitious than the law, since with the new resolution of the Cat Salut people without a health net living in Catalonia, regardless of whether or not they are registered, they can receive urgent attention, and it is Cat Salut who is responsible for the cost of care. With the resolution, however, we also find that there are centres and centre workers who do not know their existence. And, in addition, we find ourselves with centers that form part of the Siscat, centers that in the imaginary collection we believe are public but that are in the hands of foundations without any work, that have responded, in situations like these, that are a private center and have received the attention of emergencies. Yes, in situations like these, foundations without any work are unravelled. So... And that's what we're talking about eleven days ago. I mean, we're not talking about a year ago, we're talking about eleven days ago. That means we have to do a job here. More than sixty complaints since July 2015, since the July 2015 instruction, thinking that not all migrants know that they have rights and that the universal health care network is not extended throughout the territory; therefore, more than sixty complaints, more than all those who have not been able to collect. Therefore, while there are complaints and there are cases of health exclusion, we cannot claim that we are guaranteeing universality. Some problems generated by the decree, we have the opportunity, in this processing of the law, to correct them. As we have already said, the registration as required for access to the individual health card denies the evidence of the difficulties people have in accessing a habitat that allows them to register. Some gatherings are laying there and laying it down, but there are gatherings that are going through and more through to do that. Therefore, it means that either we eliminate the standard or we actually get to work with all these joints that systemically, still now, pose through because migrants in an irregular administrative situation can register or access the health card. Therefore, we cannot relegate this to the rule, we must look for some way to shield it already from the law, because we have this situation: joints that do not facilitate the pattern. And a_second element that we can improve: billing and charging to emergencies, because in the background it still passes, it still goes to the centers of the Siscat. And here we have to bear in mind that this is converted into an exclusively recapturing practice, that it does not bring to the system any type of benefit that does not follow the deterrence, the deterrence to people who cannot be paid to attend to emergencies. Therefore, it recapitulates, but a thousandth part of euros that are stuck with administrative misery, and therefore means that we need to simplify this justification of the non-availability of resources, we need to make it easier that there really is this possibility of certifying that there is not enough resources available. And, finally, a third practice, which may not be with the law, but with the subsequent regulation we have to guarantee, that it is not the dissuasive cartels that apply in some centers, in some rooms of hope we find, because this does not cease to be a morally reprehensible practice and evidence that the right to the protection of salvation ceases to be a basic objective of our ambulances and our hospitals. Finally, to re-emphasize, recognize and value the community response that has occurred since 2012 from many spaces; it is thanks to them and they that we are also here today and today we can move forward in this process. But we also have to say that, despite all these necessary and essential responses, at the moment they have still been insufficient to overthrow the state of inequality that the 2012 decree has sharpened and ended imposing on thousands of people who are currently finding it difficult to access the health system. Therefore, we, of course, will vote against a totality statement that what it does is to shield a xenophobic practice that would have to be eradicated and that could be eradicated once and for all in our country. So, in this sense we would try to work to improve the writing...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.175.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.176.0	...of this law and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.177.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.178.0	...listen to those collectors who have been working on the subject for years. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.179.0	The words of Ms. Montserrat Candini, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.180.0	Thank you, President. Counselling, deputies, deputies, welcome guests, members of the platform, certainly talking about the Law of Universalization of Salvation is essentially talking about values, and from the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes we also want to say that for us there is a follow-up of principles around salvation that I want, in a clear way, to enumerate: first, salvation is a right, it is not a privilege; second, salvation transforms communities and economies; third, universal coverage of salvation promotes welfare, and fourth, universal healthcare coverage is insoluble. We know, of course... some deny that it has been many years since universalization; we want to insist on this. In Catalonia, since 1986... it has been many years since universalisation; there have also been different legislative reforms in 1990, in 2006, huh? But it is true that the dynamic, sociological and democratic realities..., that would guarantee this principle of universality with full legal certainty. The new law of universal access reverses a decision of the Spanish Government that went against the citizens, by means of a royal decree, 1192/2012, of August 3, which ceased to recognize access to healthcare..., which had no condition of insurance. And in this sense it is fair to recall that the Government of Catalonia made an instruction in 2012, under the presidency of President Mas, in which – also later there was no 2013 and 2015 – guarantee this coverage. But it is clear that the legal security of this law, with its four additional articles and four additional provisions, clearly specifies and guarantees its universal vocation. The universalization of healthcare is not – it was said in more than one intervention, but I also want to say it on behalf of Junts for the Yes – only a moral, ethical, principled duty, as I mentioned, but an obligation derived from international standards. I will remember how the European Parliament in 2011 and also the European Council in 2006 gave resolutions that placed Member States in a position to ensure that the most vulnerable groups have a fair and just right to salvation. I also want to talk about what the World Bank has said and what a foundation has also said as can be the Rockefeller Foundation respects everything you have to see with accessibility and universality. On 12 September 2014, a new global coalition of more than five hundred major health organizations and development all over the world urges governments to accelerate reforms that ensure that everyone can access quality health services without being forced into poverty. I say for all those interventions, many times, that when it comes to, let's say, so essential and so structural issues that define societies, such as health and education – in this case, obviously, we are talking about health – it seems that it poses a challenge to competition over right and right and moral and ethical duty to give maximum assistance, therefore, and guarantees of essential health services to everyone. Therefore, the need for equitable access to quality health care has never been greater, says the World Bank. There are unprecedented requests for universal world health coverage, and people's need for salvation lies ahead of their ability to pay or not. And, therefore, the poor is no element for the right, absolutely, obviously, to be able, therefore, to hold this right to salvation. I would, in any case, like to do more, in a much more direct way, of the intervention and in any case of the intervention to the totality by the People's Party. We regret the fact that the People's Party of Catalonia presents a statement to the totality, which, moreover, we understand is not only a statement that does deny the debate in a clear way – a statement to the totality denies the debate in a clear way from the proposal made by the same Government – but that, moreover, I sincerely believe that you should learn from the People's Party of the Valencian Courts, which, in their words, the Valencian country, where you did not vote against, did not vote against absolutely for what it does to all the issue of the decree in which it is guaranteed..., and also to be able to fight against the decree respects, say, the decree of the Spanish Government. Therefore, I believe that you too should do, let's say, in this sense..., take examples of your partners in the People's Party of Valencia, that you have certainly, in this sense, given greater doses of sensitivity than the one you are giving here today, according to our parent. I would like to comment on Mrs Xandri's intervention, in which it is raised as if the fact of pulling this universalization law forward is an element that actually the fraud will be something that will be very easy to do. It's more than just reality. It is obvious – the Councillor said, and he said it in different manifestations from the moment the Government approved the universalization law – that on the part of the Government they would fight, therefore, with all the instruments and enable all the mechanisms to fight against the fraud; but to say this argument is as much as to say that they are, let's say, of a possibility that there may have been a breach of all the rights that may have the rest of citizenship with the condition that, above all, there is no breach. If you were by this rule of three, I'm sure they might have a lot less right and a lot less right than they could have. Logically, what a government has to do – and it will do so, I have no doubt – is to develop all the mechanisms to be able to pull all of this forward. You said, Congresswoman Xandri, that... It's more than just reality. Obviously, it's an absolutely sensitive subject, from all of society, huh? – of all society – it is an element and, therefore, it is, in this sense, a very sensitive political responsibility; but, from here, it escapes from the hand..., from the ends of the way. It is true that sometimes with rigid positions on the part of the opposition or, in any case, with more populist positions, it is true that they cannot facilitate it. But if the vocation, which exists – and I can assure you, on behalf of Junts for the Yes, which exists –, let's say, of the universal concept of being able to assist all people is to help, I can assure you that not even on behalf of all the professionals who are there every day – every day, every day – giving the best they can to pull forward and defending the model, and also defending everything that represents the health system..., I can assure you that what is today's salvation does not escape from the hands of the hands. You say they can't even pay. Actually, and we have a problem, which you know, and which you deny, which is the tax department. The tax officer, which you do, and which you laugh, and which you certainly need, I think that... it's very possible that the FAES confounds them, but beyond the FAES confounds them, I, in any case, would try to read some other elements much more from a point of view of contributions and economic studies, one can see with the greatest clarity and absolute that the tax officer represents. This tax policy represents more than EUR 16,000_million each day, representing EUR 51_million. When we get up and day after day, it's 51 million euros. Do you know what can be done with EUR 51 million in matters of subjects, so let's say it, of health and teaching and all social aspects? I can assure you that you can't do many and many things. But it is obvious that their denial, the constant denial that here in Catalonia there is tax, leads them to live in a way that is clearly deceptive. And from the presentation that you made, Congresswoman Xandri, I know it's hard, because the truth is that there were times when I seemed to be talking more about an administrative expediency than about something that you have to do with social consciousness. And believe me if I tell you that social justice and humanism do not have borders – social justice and humanism do not have borders. So I'm not talking about competitions in these issues, and I'm not doing this kind of reductionism with these absolutely no sensitivities – no sensitivities, it was. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, they don't offend, they don't offend us, they offend their home, with the decree of 2012. You must be offended at what the Rajoy government did at that time, and that in reality what he did was to lay on the margin. [[applause]] And totally marginalised the people. What happens, that you, that, the truth is that they don't like it, they don't like it at all, because, certainly, it's very hard not to be aware of it in this sense, social consciousness in this sense. Look, I insist, the one we're defending today – the one we're defending today – doesn't know about your records. The one we're defending today doesn't know about carpets in the middle of a table. The one we're defending today doesn't know, from a point of view that you're slipping out of your hands. What we are defending today is to give immediate and as soon as possible an answer to the needs of our people, the people who live and who are here, to our country, and that is what social justice is all about, and that is what humanism is all about, and that is what social conscience is all about. If you're uncomfortable with your fans from home, it's a complaint, but please don't come here to make a fuss at the totality, because it's not up in the country that, by luck, we live the vast majority with this social consciousness. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.181.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the People's Party of Catalonia. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall continue to vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. It was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 121 against and no abstentions. As the issue of totality has been rejected, the Health Care Universalization Bill Project continues its processing. [[Greetings.]] [[Proposal for tax reduction law on the income of physical persons in Catalonia (debate of totality)]] [[202-00028/11]] The sixth point of the order of the day is: debate of totality on the proposed tax reduction law on the income of physical persons in Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules, he presented the initiative, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.182.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, the Honourable Vice-President, Councillor for Economic Affairs, will allow me to begin my intervention in this bill with a statement that I believe we share. Now I was thinking that maybe not the whole statement is shared by everyone, right? But I believe that this substance is shared by all the Members of this House. Catalans are the Spaniards who pay more taxes. I can certainly understand that what we Catalans are Spanish people who do not share it, but the rest, "we are the ones who pay the most taxes, I am convinced that he shares it all. And that's why we decided in this Parliament. As you know, the Generality's assumptions – and yesterday we saw the proposal for the 2017 fiscal year – are ndreixen of three types of taxes: the props, the surrenders and the participants. In relation to this, Catalonia is the community we have created most. Until yesterday we had twelve; yesterday, the government proposed to create two more, fourteen, while the communities that have more, have six. In relation to the transfer, the asset tax, where the majority of communities have not changed, after its reappearance, has not changed the minimum exempt of €700,000. In Catalonia, in change, we have lowered it to 500,000. Some community has still lowered it to a little less, a community, but the others maintain it to 700,000. And the result I think is very illustrative: the 45_percent of what is collected from the asset tax in the joint of Spain, is returned to Catalonia and is, therefore, returned between Catalans. Between these, the inheritance tax and donations, Catalonia is not the most important community, especially referring to what successions are, but we are in the next group. Certainly, the year 2011, when Convergence was conditioned by the support of the Popular Party, we were able to practically eliminate the inheritance tax of Catalonia. Then, with the influence of the Republican Left, he recovered the inheritance tax and gives us the impression that now, therefore, they are making balances to maintain a certain level of inheritance tax. Heritage transmissions and documented legal acts: with documented legal acts, I insist, until then, the tax type was similar to that of most communities; it was located in 1.5 and in some communities they had, to say the least, 1.8. From yesterday we are already champions: we pass, in certain cases, 2.5_per_cent. Heritage transmissions: also until yesterday, we were in the..., also in the very maximum type, which was 10_per_cent and which share the majority of communities; yesterday, this government again proposes to increase the tax on heritage transmissions until '11_per_cent. And finally, with regard to taxes, we focus on the IRPF, the income tax, which is the one that provides the most revenue to the administrations, the most revenue to the Generalitat de Catalunya and is the most universal of all tax figures, because it is the one that affects the most taxpayers. And I want to make a point: it's a tax that on the day we participate, but with co-responsibility, and that means that the Government of the Generality does not only participate in the collection of this tax, but that it has the capacity to regulate its tram in this tax. And here the Catalans stand out and stand out a lot. The lower type, which affects the lowest renders in Catalonia, is the highest of all Spain – the highest –: 21,5_per_cent; 9,5_per_cent of the state tram, 12_per_cent of the Catalan tram. And when we refer to the top, the highest type, we also have the highest type of all Spain, together with other communities – together with other communities–, Mr. Coscubala, yes; we arrive at 48_per_cent, 22,5 state cent plus 25,5_per_cent of the Catalan tram. So, as I conclude, we have to say that where more taxes are paid and where more taxes are paid, the lower returns are precisely in Catalonia. And that's not because you decided Madrid; that's because it was decided in this Parliament. In particular, who are the Catalans who pay the most? So, mirin, one goes to the statisticians of suspicious people, like the Institute of Statistics of Catalonia, and sees that 75_percent of Catalan employees have a middle gross salary of up to thirty_ thousand_ euros/year, Institute of Statistics of Catalonia. Do you know in which part of Spain returns up to thirty thousand euros pay more taxes? Catalonia. We take the data of the General Council of Economists and observe that if Catalonia stands out for something it is because the tax effort for what it does to the tax on income, to return up to thirty_ thousand_ euros/year..., to which it pays more is to Catalonia. I don't need to tell them where they pay less, I don't need to make comparisons. I don't think there's much with the argument that Catalonia is the one we pay the most. And from here on, why do we consider the People's Party to lower taxes? So, look, let me have a reflection that's very often done, and it's that today some of the wages of the jobs that have been overly low, and we share it. And I look at Mr. Coscubiela and the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, because surely it is the ones who repeat this statement most. We share it. With mattes – with mattes. We share it. But this is the effect that occurs when there are very high taxes, as has been the case with Catalonia and Spain in the past few years. The way to try to correct this situation... there are many, but at the same time one of the formulas is creating occupation. But we can also try to make it short, and it is precisely lowering taxes on lower returns as we can try to correct this situation of excessively low wages. Lowering taxes on lower returns is supposed to increase disposable income, increase consumption, boost the economy, inversion and job creation. Conceptually, it also means that people are more free. Taking advantage of the fact that it is spoken to Catalonia in the last few years of freedom, freedom, freedom..., therefore, a way of being freer is precisely paying less taxes, which are the citizens who decide, those who have the right to decide what they do with their resources, which is much more free than what Mr Junqueras decided, with all due respect, or Mr Montoro, is the same for me. If the citizens can have more resources than they are, no doubt they are freer. And an example: the reform of the tax on income in the state tram in the year 2016– insists, of the state tram, in 2016 – has been saved to Catalans 1,779_million euros; money that allows to improve consumption, that allows to give a more impetus to the reversal and the creation of occupation. Are we on condition of lowering taxes in the current economic context? Well, yes. In Spain's conjunction all, with great effort, we have reduced the public deficit, the deficit of public administrations, from '11_per_cent in 2009 to 5_per_cent in 2015; in Catalonia, too: from 4,8_per_cent in 2010 to '1,9 in 2015, without taking into account the different finances. For what makes creation rich, Spain we have gone from decreasing 3.6_per_cent in 2009 to growing 3.2_per_cent encanny; in Catalonia, data, looking like: we are decreasing 4.1 and we are growing 3.4. No, I'd love to, Councilman Junqueras, which was more, but 3.2 is more than his predictions in the assumptions he presented yesterday for the year he sees, which are 2.7. And on the job market – and on the job market – there has also been good behavior. In the last three years Spain has created 1_million_i_mig of jobs contributing to social security – they are not questions, they are not statistical data, they are real data, they are social security contributors – 300,000 of which, of course, Catalonia. And, finally, the assumptions presented yesterday by Councillor Junqueras allow us to visualize how the best of the economic situation and the labor market, on the margins of the tax increases that were proposed, provide the Administration of the Generalitat with up to 3,400_million euros additional respect to what was available in the year 2015. That is to say, the trend of the economic environment is positive enough because a reduction in income tax is translated into an increase in growth, an increase in job creation, which does not mean reducing the availability of resources for social policies. And if social policies, really, are the ones that concern us, then, look, if we stop making structures of state, references of independence, plebiscite elections or elections constitute every two years, then surely we could make even more social policies. And that is why we are presenting our proposal, which basically consists of changing the tax types of the Catalan tax line, with the main objective of reducing this tax to Catalans with lower rates; I insist: with lower rates. We take advantage to simplify the name of the trams. The Catalan share of the tax at this time has six trams, which, combined with the five on the state side, gives us a total of two trams, because the limits do not coincide, the limits are different. Just matching the trams with the State trams would reduce the current two trams to seven. And it says seven because, in our proposal, we maintain, unlike the state tram, the two highest income trams, which is between 120 and 175,000 euros a year and more than 175,000 euros a year. I do not consider it a waiver, but a concession; we would already like to delete these trams. But it's not what we're proposing today. It will be difficult for this proposal to thrive to reduce the tax on lower yields, as we proposed to do on higher yields. As I said, the main objective of the proposal is to modulate the types down to the lower; you make them up to 12,450_euros would lower the type from 12 to 10_per_cent. The change in trams also causes certain income levels, instead of taxing a tram, to do so on the lower tram. For example, returns between said and twenty-thousand euros, instead of taxing the third tram, as now, would go into the second, and that would mean moving from a current 14_percent type to a '11,5_per_cent type. We're also proposing a set of additional deductions with a common denominator; I'm going to get rid of a lot of details, which are..., for the time I'm left, but that's basically support for families. Why? Because the families who, in an exceptionally difficult crisis situation, have been able to help themselves and support all members of the family unit so that they can get out of the way. Therefore, all the deductions we make in favor of the family are to try to return to all those people who have made an important effort during this time of crisis a part, small, surely – small, sure – of the effort they have made during the current situation. These are, therefore, the initials that we are subject to today's consideration of the chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.183.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, to defend the whole issue presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.184.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, first of all, I wanted to make it clear that this proposal for the law of the People's Party, in our view, is the daughter of a great fallacy, which says that our country is paid a lot of taxes, and an ultra-liberal ideology, the one that seeks to identify rights such as sanitation, education, attention to dependence as goods, not social rights. It is false, and you know it, that Spain is paid a lot of taxes. And it is also that Catalonia is, so, in its conjunction, the community with the most fiscal pressure from all of Spain. There are two lies that, based on a lot of repeating them, you pretend to turn into a truth, and that has a name. From the outset, tell them one thing: the PP starts from an ideological trap – certainly, an ideological trap shared also with Junts for the Yes – that of considering that Catalonia and Spain are societies without social classes. Catalonia and Spain pay a lot of taxes. So, who's in Catalonia paying a lot of taxes? The twenty-i-seven Catalans that are found on the Forbes billionaire list? The titular Catalans of the Sicavs? The Catalan noranta_mils who declared 2014 property tax? Or those who declare to the rent higher than the ninety-thousand euros? Obviously not; these do not pay much taxes. And if they don't pay a lot of taxes, it's very important for tax policy that you, for a long time, have defended the State and all places where you have some ability to decide, like, for example, the Community of Madrid. This is the trap they constantly make of us talking about "Spanish and Catalan", as if we were all a society without social classes. And from this ideological trap, you build this fallacy with three falsehoods. First falsehood: it is not true that Spain has more fiscal pressure than other countries, it is not true. Eurostat's statistics have just come out: a differential of seven points to GDP in relation to the euro area average. This means that 70,000_million fewer entrances to the joint venture of the State – certainly a large proportion, if it is territorial in the 16,000_millions that always appear in this Parliament and in the Catalan society – that they do not have to make social policies, precisely the result of this regressive fiscal policy. Spain has ahead of us, twenty-eight, countries of the European Union that have a higher level of tax revenue and fiscal effort than ours. But, obviously, more than that, it's precisely in the income tax that you're talking about today that this difference is more significant, almost two points in relation to GDP. According to falsehood: assert as they say – you did not say it today, but it appears in your law proposal – this truth – that Bush, Reagan, is repeating a lot for a long time, Trump now in the United States – that lowering taxes to the richest favors economic growth. Liar! The recent history of these countries and of our manifesto pose that this is not so. Lowering taxes to what they have most in income or in assets is exactly the opposite, it causes more inequality, but above all – above all – it clearly causes a situation of impoverishment and lack of access to social resources that we lack. Third falsehood: Catalans are Spanish citizens – so, in general – who pay more taxes. Interestingly, it is again a statement that you say we all share. So no, we don't share it. Because, from the outset, Catalans, for us, are nothing; there are Catalans and Catalans, in terms of taxation. We have shared interests, of course, that of the national defence of our country, but we do not share the same social interests, because there are Catalans belonging to different social classes. The characteristic of the Catalan tax system, especially in the matter of IRPF, is its profound regressivity, Mr Junqueras, and you want it to continue like this, especially when compared to other autonomous communities. I do not say this; the recent data of the General Council of Economists and which has presented us to many of those who are here Professor Maite Vilalta in the days of Poor Zero pose a manifesto to what point Popular Party and Joints for Yes keep the same fallacy, from this point of view, and in some cases justify their present proposal and in others justify their refusal to make a tax reform. It has already been said: the lowest type in Catalonia is the highest of all the autonomous communities, 12_per_cent; while there are new autonomous communities that have the lowest types of 9.5, and others, very low. No one has this kind of tiny guy as tall as ours. But what happens when IRPF media types are compared in relation to the high media rendering route? So what happens is that we denounce some – we, the socialist companies, the companies of the CUP –, which is that at this time the Catalan tax system treats very well, compared to other autonomous communities, these high average returns routes if the average type is taken into account. Please don't confuse him with the marginal type. These lifts can't come up with these traps. And that's what he's up to, and they're up to all the studies, which is what he knows as the elasticity of the middle type between the lower and the higher. In our country, this elasticity, in Catalonia, is minimal, because there is a profound inequality in the treatment of the IRPF. And for this – for this – it is absolutely incomprehensible that today, in addition to presenting a statement to the totality, the Group of Joints for the Yes, against the proposal submitted by the People's Party, has not presented us with a tax reform under conditions accompanying these assumptions. Because that supposes, on the part of this government, a triple waiver. Renunciation to exercise self-government in fiscal matters, which we are demanding but when we do not exercise it, especially if it touches the interests of a few – we are talking about 4_per_cent, and then I will explain it. The resignation also makes them pay more than they have. Mr. Junqueras, I've seen you say this so many times that... that this isn't concrete now, when you're in government on this issue, we barely do, huh? You're the lord of speeches, but at the time of turning speeches into policies, you apply that maximum, right? , that my left hand, which is what makes speeches, does not know what my right hand does, which is what approves the measures of the Government. The third is the renunciation of resources for social policies. This is the reality we have today. And this, curiously, today you will confront; but, in practice, the fiscal policy that you are practicing is exactly the same. And it's not strange – I know it's hard that you're not here, because I wanted to congratulate you – that Marta Pascal's company is so happy and so satisfied, because, of course, she has reason to: she has managed to impose the tax policy of Convergence all her life on her members of the Republican Government of Esquerra of Catalonia. And I stay here, I don't say anymore. They have reasons for the PDECAT companies, the former Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, because they are very happy– they are very happy– ; after so many statements, after you, Mr Junqueras, want to pass through the bo of the Government, because there are others who are painful, in the end, at the time of making the truth– by their works you will know them, and in politics opinions are expressed in a fundamental way with decisions – you reap the fiscal policy of Convergence of all life – of all life – in fiscal matters. Unfortunately, the PP today..., they think they are from losers– they know that no, they will lose, almost certainly, obviously, this proposal of law– but, sadly, they will come out as ideological winners of this battle, at least at the moment, and try that it is only momentary, because with their constant pressure they have come to condition the policy of the entire Junts Government for the Yes, and therefore they have managed to impose the non-tax reform with the tax of IRPF, with the inheritance and donations and with the property. What can they do? We've proposed it, but we'll say it again. It's time, yet, Mr. Junqueras, lords of the government... [[Funnel veils]] - They're on time, yes. We are proposing a tax reform to give satisfaction to this protection of poor workers who are concerned at this time with the People's Party, as if you had nothing to do with labour reform and its tax treatment and the benefits that the People's Party's policy has always given capital. We propose one thing, for example: to reform the IRPF's autonomic tram, which lowers the type with respect to returns that reach the minimum interprofessional wage twice; that the rate is equal as it is now, up to seven times the minimum interprofessional wage, which is sixty-thousand, i.e., practically takes 95_percent of the declarants, including, for example, all pensioners, with maximum pension, up to and including everything – to all, absolutely all – and which progressively supports all those who cover the minimum interprofessional wage more than seven times, who are 4 comma and fall per cent! Those that you cover up to protect and defend with this plantation. That said, the truth is that I've been absolutely impacted by the feeling in favour of high wages and the treatment of the salaries of the People's Party, huh? If it wasn't because I've known them for a long time, I'd think you'd just made it to politics two minutes ago and the real anti-capitalists in this room are you, not another one. Because today's speech... what a pity! That's that this discriminating deal between making work and making capital... that did more for him, not the only ones, that's right, the People's Party was precisely with all its policies of tax evasion of societies, of many other things. Yes, property tax, for example, is that the Community of Madrid has decided to place it at zero! And, of course, then the percentages are as they are. No, no... listen, you have to pay property taxes and estates. Especially you should defend them, who are so supporters of the meritocratic society, and those who don't deserve them want to leave them out. Now yes, meritocracy for everything – for example, for school – but no meritocracy to pay taxes. Let me tell you, with all due respect, that your law's proposal is loaded with phariseeism and a certain social cynicism. Why don't you just change the theme of the trams, it's..., what are you planting? They also raise the issue of increasing the tax benefits. Yes, yes..., tax benefits, which are tax minorities: 10,281_million euros that would stop charging the Generality's assumptions this year – tax memory – as a result of these tax benefits. An important part corresponds to the scope of state legislation, but one thousand and ten thousand correspond to the scope of the Generality's legislation. So, look, tell him..., let me tell him no. And you know why? Because everyone is telling us, that one of the problems clearly in our tax system is that the theoretical types are very high, but, as a consequence of these fiscal benefits policies, it turns out that the tax base is fast and then we cannot recover and have a difference of €70,000_million in relation to the average of the European Union. But it's funny, plus, what kind of tax benefits do you have. And here's where I'm going to justify my claim that you come here with a proposal for an ultra-liberal burden that you want this society to become a market and that the rights to salvation, education, dependence, and rights that can be accessed through the market. You don't think about making plans to ensure that everyone can have better public health care or better public education because the text books are free at the time of use– because it's nothing but free–? Is it possible, or is it not, for you, for example, to end the situation of dependence, of the situation of people with difficult dependence, who are the main responsible for not wanting to finance the situation of these people? No, no, There is no need for anything other than tax benefits in relation to certain interests. For example, tax benefits related to family protection. What family do you want to protect? The nombrosian families. Charmed, no problem! But you thought at some point that the families that most need to be protected are the single parent families... – forgive me, single parent families – who are the ones who are in a situation of the most exaggerated poverty? What are, besides, those who determine with their familiar surroundings that the poor children of this country are growing up and are part of these units? And your single-parent families don't quote them. But, look, these single-parent families don't need tax benefits, because these tax benefits would amount to 3_euros. What they need to do is guarantee them access to social rights, and that's why they have to pay taxes, which is what you don't want it to be. But look if your ultra-liberal ideology has so much depth that you, with regard to the health issue, do not happen to expand the game by public health assistance, no; if they happen to do one thing that is to give tax benefits to those Catalans who like they have enough tickets can be paid an insurance and through this private insurance they can avoid waiting lists. It is to say, to double even more the health care of this country: those who have money, a policy and we will use public resources so that they can have a different entrance into the health system, and those who do not have it..., garlic and water – you already understand me. So, no; we can't agree with this layout either. And so one by one. With the subject of text books. Listen, do you really believe that the solution is to continue with the current situation and certain people with a purchasing power pay for text books and not for others, and to pay for text books do we make them a tax benefit? Listen, this is close to compassion capitalism. That's right. Compassionate with what you have most of it, it's about socialism for the rich, which you've put in the way of strategy at the last moment. And now, for the last time, the subject of adoption by senior ascendants of seventy-five years. Listen, the families who have people of seventy-five years dependent on their care don't need to make a small deduction, some of whom can't even take advantage of it because it doesn't serve them as nothing. What serves them, for all of them, is that you accept a tax system that allows you to have sufficient resources to pay the dependency benefit and not to carry it to the autonomous communities, and not to carry it to the local administrations or not to carry it, above all – above all – to the co-sponsorship, which is absolutely expropriating the co-sponsorship system of the dependency. Okay. And where is the phariseeism above the top is that you, who have earned all these tax benefits from Spanish legislation and, therefore, [[the timer riu]] They have made it easier for the Spanish State to recover for this, now coming and telling us here, in Catalonia, that we are putting them in a state of fever that has the public finances of the Generality. The truth is, no, we can't be in favour of this law, of this proposal of the law; for this reason we have presented a theme to the totality; but, unfortunately, I must admit that today you will lose a vote but for now you are winning the ideological battle. Because the proposal that you are making today, the ideology that you are defending today, is unfortunately the very one that the Junts for Yes government has brought to refuse this tax reform. I hope that a little more thought has been given to it and that Mr Junqueras has agreed, Mr Junqueras, that this Parliament has approved the guaranteed income of citizenship. I want to remind you why you said yesterday that you did not leave for the guaranteed income of citizenship...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.185.0	Mr. Coscubala, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.186.0	...because you don't have a democratic mandate. Yeah, it's a democratic, first-division warrant, not just the one from the referendum, this one, too. Please don't tell me again, because you have a warrant to implement the guaranteed citizenship income, and it has to be done in 2017. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.187.0	To defend the emena presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si, has the word Mr Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.188.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members, of course, if we run the risk of not analyzing what is said in this Faristol, which is proposed in this Faristol, without taking into account all the precedents, we run the risk of not knowing who we are playing with. We run the risk of believing that who emerges here makes some proclamations in defense of families, in defense of the popular classes of the country and does not have the historical antecedents that it has at the back, that they demonstrate with facts just what they think in reality. Words are words, proclamations are proclamations, but facts are facts. And the facts allow us to see, allow us to analyze what the PP's fiscal policy is. What is the fiscal policy of the parliamentary group that today makes this proposal to us? We all know the People's Party's fiscal policy, we all know what its model is and what its approach is in this area; in fact, we have experienced it especially in the last few years. We have experienced an absolutely regressive fiscal policy; a fiscal policy which, in the search for fairness, in the search for justice, in the search for equality between all taxpayers, is to say, among all citizens and citizens, especially the most vulnerable, that they have dedicated themselves to making a regressive policy. The PP's fiscal policy is judicial taxes. The PP's fiscal policy is the tax on the ground. The PP's fiscal policy is the VAT of the 'chiches'. Don't you remember, the VAT on the dicks? The VAT of "sucks is the tax policy of the PP. You're saying, not to record assets, not to record yields, but to tax indirect taxes. Just to impose a clearly regressive model. That is to say, said in another way, they have preferred the last few years to load the directives that came from Brussels on the spaces of those who can least do so on those who can most. And today we have deductions, tax deductions. Let's talk about deductions, the biggest tax deduction the People's Party government has ever made. The biggest deduction the People's Party has made in fiscal matters is the 2012 fiscal amnesty. The tax amnesty that decided to give up all the money that had escaped through the elusion and tax evasion to collect a 10_per_cent min. And neither that, nor that they're going to get out, although this great deduction to those who can most not get out of charging or 10_per_cent. This is his fiscal policy. This is their inconsistency, because they come out here and say one thing and then when they have the opportunity, they say, the Government of the State, the Government of other autonomous communities, they just do the opposite. And today it turns out we have to feel that those who have promoted, who have inflated more, who have inflated more the real estate cylinder, today we are talking about help for the housing deduction. Those who don't pay their share of the Dependency Law turn out to be talking about advice deductions. If that's not cynicism... Those who speak to us..., or those who hold us under a system of unjust financing, which affects all Catalans and Catalans, all those who today Mr Santi Rodriguez said he would defend, those who maintain that system of unjust financing and who have made it worse in recent years, it turns out that now they also want to deduct the effort made for private health coverage. I insist, if that's not cynicism... They talk about casuists, they talk about concrete cases, they talk about concrete deductions that affect, effectively, educationally, that affect housing, that affect social matters. It is certainly the competence of the Generality of Catalonia, the competence of this Parliament and the competence over which the different governments of the Generality have had to make a fiscal over-effort, an economic over-effort, an over-effort of financing in order to guarantee them. Because we are not only historically subject to this unjust financing system that you promote, that you defend, that you keep, but also, in the last few years, and particularly in these last assumptions, we have had to bear, we have had to add the counting beasts to the bass, the counting government beasts to the bass, and, above all, the application of an unjust remedy. A soustre de déficit that when it was to be of the '1,18_per_cent is of the 0.5_per_cent, and that, Mr. Rodríguez, supposes 1,500_million euros less; 1,500_million euros that, among other things, could go to Teaching, could go to Afers Socials, could go to help the families of this country. And if really what they want is precisely this, to help families, to help the citizens of this country who have the most difficulties at the end of the month, to help the Catalans and the Catalans, they have a good time to do it with the vote of the assumptions of 2016, when I remind them that there were an additional 1,000_millions of euros to be allocated to social policies, and now they have a very good opportunity, fifteen days from now, to debate in total the assumptions for 2017, that they provide for another 1,200_millions of additional euros to be able to support the basic pillars of the welfare state, that is, to be able to reinforce, to support Health, Education and Social Affairs. Because that's what it is. When we talk about taxes, when we talk about fiscal policy, we actually mean what we want to do with this money, how it will convert the tax effort made by the taxpayers, how it will convert the economic effort made by the citizens a time passed by the Government of the Generality, a time passed by this Parliament. And that's not what they're talking about. Because it's true that it sounds very good to go out here and talk about families and help families and the tax effort they make, and the difficulties; that certainly sounds very good. But then they leave a part of the equation, and they don't talk about what they mean by less tickets all these deductions; they didn't talk about it, I didn't hear it, and look like I listened to it carefully. He hasn't told us what they're willing to give up for these deductions, these deductions that are worth about 450_million euros. What do you want to delete? What do they want to reduce? What social policies, what public policies would want to eliminate with these 450_million euros less that the Generalitat would no longer involve? Does it live, for example, that it is about 300_million euros in the draft assumptions? Childcare? The fight against the poor? Occupational plans? I gave him options, possibilities; then, when he comes out here, it's worth it, Mr. Rodriguez, and tell him exactly what he wants to give up, what his group we gave up proposes. What did we give up? Dependency? Helping them from zero to three years? To the Squad Mousses? The bombers? What did we give up, Mr. Rodriguez? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.189.0	Please don't dial...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.190.0	Mr. Rodriguez, you will have your opportunity...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.191.0	Then he'll have his replica turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.192.0	...and when you come back here I am convinced that you, who are good, will tell us exactly what you want to give up. Listen, it's not just an economic issue, it's not just a fiscal issue: it's a model issue. After your proposal there is a model, there is a clear scheme that we do not share – which we do not share, Mr Coscubiela – a scheme that says that in accounts to point out the public school, that in accounts to strengthen public health, that in iron accounts strong social policies, we improve casuísticos, precisely because we do not have to do all this, so that we do not have to strengthen the foundations of the welfare state. Freedom, you were talking about the freedom of the citizens to decide. And serve freedom as the euphemism of the camp-qui-pugui. Your freedom is in line with liberalism. It is legitimate for you to defend a liberal project, in which each one must be swept away, in which there is no social assistance, in which salvation is private and public schools have serious deficiencies; it is legitimate. But they say it, they say it clearly, and they don't want to sell us out of the blue, talking about freedom, when they actually mean liberalism. It's not our model, we're not defending this model, we're defending a model of progressivity. And, look, I'm telling the principle that words are the words and facts are the facts. And we pay off to the parties, we go to the parties, we go to the dice. And the data tells us that from 2012 until today, with all the tax changes that we have approved in this Parliament of Catalonia – I insist, from 2012 until today, until 2016– these tax changes have led to an increase in the annual revenue of the Generalitat of Catalonia of some 1,200_million euros more. That is, reforms in the inheritance tax, reforms in the inheritance tax, reforms in the inheritance tax, reforms in the transfer of assets and others have assumed these more than 1,000_millions in order to be able to devote to social policies, that is, to be able to help the families of whom you spoke. And it could have been more, it could have been more than 1,200_million euros, if you, if the Government of the State, if the People's Party had not systematically dedicated itself to bringing to the Constitution all the taxes that we have approved in this chamber. And I do not do that, I understand, to defend the middle and popular classes of the country, because, as I know, nuclear, for example, are not middle classes, banks are not exactly the ones that suffer the most from our society, our country, nor the airlines, nor all those passive subjects to which these taxes are directed and which help to redistribute some of the wealth; this was precisely their purpose. When this is done by the Government of the State, when the Government of the State, systematically, carries these taxes to the Constitutional Court, I do not see them coming out here and defending the popular classes, defending the families of this country. Miri, I finish – I finish – but before I leave'mfer a recommendation, a triple recommendation, if I may. First recommendation: if they really want to help the families of this country, they vote for the assumptions that the government presented to us yesterday [[remorse of the voice]] They vote, they keep it very easy. He had made the debate to the full, and then they tend to have the opportunity not only to vote in its totality, but to vote in its finality. And I say this because, effectively, with these assumptions, with this Project of assumptions, the families, these middle classes of which you filled your mouth when you came out here, you could have 1,170 million more euros to make social policies. Doesn't that seem like a good way to help families in the country reduce public health waiting lists? Does it not seem, for example, that it is a good way to help the families of this country to hire 3,600 more teachers to strengthen the public school of this country? Doesn't it seem like it's a good way to help the popular classes in Catalonia to have 12_million more feeding scholarships? One thousand and sixty million euros more to be able to make social policies; that is to say, not for a model in which there are universal aids and deductions, but to go to the scene of the problem and to help those who really need it. This means redistribution of wealth, and this means progressing. Therefore, the first proposal: the 2017 assumptions are voted on. Second proposal: remove all the objections that have been made to the taxes that have been passed by this chamber to the Constitutional Court. They keep it easy, they keep it in their hands, they're in the state government. Withdraw them, withdraw these challenges, withdraw these resources to the TC that would allow to collect millions of euros that would also be used to strengthen these social policies. And finally, the last proposal I make to you: look, to be able to help the families of this country in truth and to be able to do it in a way that corresponds to the fiscal effort made by Catalans and Catalans, there is only one way, that it has all the resources, all this fiscal effort and all the skills to decide what we do not only with taxes given, with all taxes and, above all, with all the social expenses of our government's assumptions. And the only way to have all the skills and all the resources is with independence. So – and here I end –, third proposal: join in demanding independence, join in building the republic... [[Rialles.]] I'm serious. If you are concerned about fiscal policy, today the best fiscal policy that can be done is the proclamation of the Republic of Catalonia. Therefore, this is really what they want to help the families of this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.193.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, for the turn against, has the word Mr. Santi Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.194.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is that part of the interventions have answered them from the escó; I will try to compress it now immediately. Mr Coscubiela, I believe that you, today, by social class...., do not differ between the returns and the wealth of the people. You, the social class... are the thoughts: "The ultra-liberals are the rich, the ultra-communists are the poor. I think he's wrong; this isn't going this way today. I don't know if Conseller Bassa will or won't agree with you and your castrist model admired, will it? [[Widow's remorse.]] Listen to me, you said: « In Catalonia and Spain..., and just get out of Eurostat statistics that is where you pay less taxes. Miri, you're right. Right, I'll buy it: Spain is one of the countries of the European Union where it pays less taxes, you're right. But do you know what's going on? That in Spain the growth rate is 3.2_per_cent and the growth rate is 2.7_per_cent. In the rest of the European Union, where more taxes are paid, growth is half, 1.6_per_cent, and job creation, also half, of '1,4_per_cent. I think that in the situation where we are, we need to grow up a lot and grow up in business. You're worried that someone will win a lot, some will win a lot. What we're worried about is that a lot of money is a substantial difference. I think you haven't listened to us or read the proposal, because the proposal we are making is to lower the income tax on taxpayers who have lower returns, and especially on taxpayers who have less than 30 thousand euros/year. Discussing the marginal type and the middle type. I'm looking at the example I've given you, referring to the average type already. We do rule out the marginal type, but the example I've set is with reference to the middle type. On the tax benefits, escort'm, with all satisfaction we say: "So, yes, we defend that those 2_million Catalans who have dual medical coverage because they have the value of paying themselves - the value of their butxaca has a small deduction. All of them? No, only the low-income ones, Mr. Coscubala! He doesn't listen to us or read our papers: only low-income, not high-income – only low-income. About Dependency: Fit with the myths! The Government of the State pays the Generality 50 per cent or more of the dependency! [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes! Two lives! The Court of Auditors' reports are reviewed. Two ways: directly through the Imserso and through the financing model. Yes, Mr. Junqueras! And they know it perfectly. They cover 50_per_cent or more of the resources that are allocated to dependency. Therefore, strive to resolve the ninety-thousand shippers who have so many dependent people, because they are waiting for the Generality to resolve these shippers. Keep going. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Torrent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.195.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.196.0	... you're going to talk to me about the VAT "of the sucks that you propose to put the tax on coke in this Parliament? [[Rialles.]] Are you coming back to this? For God's sake! [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] And, miri, some maybe, with the coke tax, today, this week, we'd be particularly satisfied. But we don't share it. He didn't suck, nor did he suck, nor does he suck, nor does he suck, nor does he suck, nor [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Nor do you come to comfort us, Mr. Torrent – do not come to shock us, Mr. Torrent – with the theme of disability. I stop crying about the deficit. If I've already told Mr. Junqueras, stop crying about the deficit! What do you want to do, 1_per_cent? Do it! I know 0.5 is the most authorized. Do you want to do the 1st? Do it. But do you know what the problem is? That they don't make 0.5 or l'1, that they don't make 2! Well, if you say: "It's that the just would be the 1, so, do the 1, but don't do the 2 to me! It's that simple. Then, of course, if you do 2, don't come and say, "We're going to have to keep the 1. So, do the 1, but don't do the 2. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.197.0	Please, we're not dialing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.198.0	In the end...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.199.0	We're not dialing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.200.0	In the end, Mr. Torrent, what concerns you is the effort of the Generality Administration, which is a substantial difference from what concerns us, which is the effort that people have to make and what they do. This is the difference: you're worried about the Administration, we're worried about people. Do you want us to vote for your assumptions, Mr. Junqueras? I assure you that if you accept our terms and conditions be more reliable than any other partners you have sought, that you have only sought one. But be much more reliable. Do you want the People's Group to vote for the assumptions? I don't know if they'll make me out of the group or not, but I'll make him a proposal. [[Widow's remorse.]] I make him a proposal: I dedicate the 3,400_million euros more that they have thanks to the economic recovery entirely to social policies. 3,400, not 1,200. The 3,400. They'll have our support – they'll have our support. Withdraw the emena to totality, we approve this modification of the income tax, dedicate the 3,400_million to social policies and tend our supports. Mr. Torrent, don't tell me we're giving up on moves, meth and bombers. If that's what you do! The president, in this Faristol, took on some commitments, and on the assumptions that you presented yesterday...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.201.0	Mr. Rodriguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.202.0	...there's... I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.203.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.204.0	I'll be done right away, Madam President. On the assumption that they presented yesterday there are fewer moves, fewer metrees, fewer bombers and more functioning of the public record. So, what do we have to say to people who have a medical need? "Go to the Tax Agency, which I will cure there. [[Rialles.]] Mr. Coscubila...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.205.0	Mr. Rodriguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.206.0	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.207.0	I know it's hard, but it's been a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.208.0	Okay. So, one sentence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.209.0	I'm very hard to taste.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.210.0	...and I'm done, Madam President. Mr. Coscubila...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.211.0	I know it's hard, it's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.212.0	Mr Coscubala, this initiative, the People's Party, the People's Group, will lose it. But do you really know that he's gonna lose it? Catalans with yields of less than thirty thousand euros a year. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.213.0	Please, let's continue with the debate – let's continue with the debate. We will now proceed to the turn of interventions to fix the positioning. In the first place, has the word the Lord Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.214.0	Yes; thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. Counsellor, Vice-President, Members and Members, let us see, ladies and gentlemen: I believe that it is true that there is an unquestionable fact, and that the majority of Catalans pay more taxes than the rest of the Spanish. And what is also..., and more importantly: we have worse services. Catalans, or most Catalans, if you like, are at the forefront of taxes and public debt. We are at the forefront of that, and yet we are also the last in social services, health and, above all, education. Catalans make a greater fiscal effort, but that is not rewarded with better health, better education or better social services. This evidence is justified by a part of the chamber blaming the funding, blaming Madrid. It couldn't have been any other way. Really, at this point I am already incapable of imagining a speech, one alone, where finally, in one way or another, I do not end up blaming the State, which stifles us or steals, depends on the day and mood. But, ladies and gentlemen, this argument, this victimism, as soon as a comparative analysis is made, with other communities, of course, and with similar funding, we see that it falls by its own weight. Look, if we compare Catalonia, for example, with the Valencian Community or the Balearic Islands, what we see is that in Catalonia education it is located below both Valencia and the Balearic Islands. If we compare health, for example, it is located below the Balearic Islands, although in this case above the Valencian Community. I therefore believe that you should be able to assume, this Government and this parliamentary group, that the lack of correspondence between more tax efforts and better services actually lies in the responsibility, essentially, of the autonomous governments, of the autonomous governments. A government, this, what is proving to have us with more taxes and not better services is that it does not manage well, does not prioritize well, and in sum it is an inefficient and inefficient government; a government of the Generalitat that is almost always..., or, rather, that has always chosen the easiest way: to blame Spain and its governments, instead of bravely facing the rationalization of their revenues and their expenses, to undertake a rationalization of their administration, to evaluate their public policies, to evaluate the costs and achievements of those policies. For what? For to prevent many of them from being genuine sinks of public money that do not bring real value to society. In Citizens, we are committed to making public administration and the public sector more efficient. And not out of whim. Precisely, to ensure their quality and continuity. We want to work for an administration and a public sector that guarantee the provision of the best services at the lowest possible cost, eliminating bureaucracy, eliminating administrative duplication, making the most agile and flexible. In order to achieve this objective, it is essential – it is essential – to carry out a genuine comprehensive audit of the activities of the Autonomous Administration at the economic, organic and functional levels, and to continue to merge and eliminate inoperative public bodies. Some other political groups think that to improve public services the solution is to raise taxes. I have to tell them not to count on us to raise taxes to the middle and working classes, who are already putting up with virtually all the effort and fiscal pressure, in Catalonia and the rest of Spain. For our part, however, we believe that an agreement would be possible to tax large incomes and assets. Let's do it. But on the part of Citizens we only put two conditions. The first is that the charge, logically, is established and progressive, but let us prevent it from having confiscational scope. And, in this regard, allow me to refer to what the German Constitutional Court understands on the subject, which pointed out that the imposition cannot affect the substance of the property or exceed a limit, located approximately in half of the yields. I think with Citizens you can get there perfectly. And I said we had two conditions. The second is even more obvious: let us avoid making a fool of ourselves and not wasting time, as will be the case with the Proposition for a law on non-productive assets presented by the CUP and Junts pel Si, a tax, the latter which I am mentioning, which, as Mr Joan Coscubiela said yesterday, is going to be unproductive and for which not a single euro is going to be collected. Therefore, they could save us, and they could even save us the waste of time that will entail their processing. With regard to the proposal for a law to reduce the income tax on natural persons, brought to us by the People's Party, I must say that we do not like it. The reductions and deductions that we propose would reduce the tax's progressiveity, increase the tax's holes and reduce the collection. Having said that, we do not like the proposal. Nevertheless, we would vote in favour..., we thought..., we would abstain in this vote, since we thought it might be an opportunity for the parliamentary procedure to improve the regulation we currently have on the autonomous portion of the IRPF tax. Really, that would be possible, too. Look, in Citizens we want to lower taxes on income from work, we want to lower taxes on those workers with precarious jobs and low wages, we want to promote employment and fight poverty and inequality. But we are going to do so in the form and with the tools that have proved effective where they have been implemented: we are going to do so through the guaranteed wage supplement, a measure that, since part-time contracts are largely occupied by women, since poverty is greater among women than among men, represents a significant advance not only from the social point of view, or from the whole of society, but especially from the gender perspective; a positive improvement from the perspective of equality between men and women. Look, in Citizens we want to lower taxes on workers and middle classes, I insist again. But above all we want essential services not to be reduced, but to be improved. For what? To improve well-being, promote equal opportunities and increase prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.215.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The words of Ms.Alícia Romero of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.216.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Vice President, Councillor, Members, Members, well, then, the truth is that I don't know if I can put in any more than Mr. Coscubiela, because I, as a matter of fact, say that I would subscribe to everything that the Catalonian economics spokesman said Yes, it's Pot. So, we could almost leave him here, because I don't know if I'm going to do it better than he did. So I know it's hard, but your wish won't be complete, at the moment, this late. Miri, today the People's Party presents us with a bill to modify the IRPF's tax. The autonomic tram, obviously, because with the state we'll see what they're doing on the other side. But in this case the autonomic. They insist constantly..., and already gave them a few fills that Mr. Coto I always remember saying that here we pay more taxes than I put in. President Puigdemont also said that we are the country where there is the most fiscal pressure in the world. In short, we always like to talk that we are the most – the most... always. And then, of course, when one went to the dice and came to the reality that this isn't right so that to repeat many times a lie didn't come true. And, therefore, it would be worth giving some dice. Look if we are not the country that pays the most than if we compare ourselves to European Union countries we see that we are very much under the fiscal pressure of the middle of the countries, and also of the twenty-night. The Catalan fiscal pressure is at 38,2_per_cent; the middle of the European Union, of the dinosaur, is at 40,7. And if we go to the 20th we still have more room. Therefore, the fiscal pressure that we put up with Catalans is not the highest in the world, nor is it the pressure of its citizens. Therefore, it would be good if when we gave things we were a little more rigorous. His proposal, which is based on this, would be to lower some taxes that we have in Catalonia very high, such as the autonomic tram... You also spoke, and speak in the introduction of the law, about the inheritance tax, etcetera..., which is true, you recalled that the year 2011, when the president But agreed with Alicia Sánchez-Camacho, they eliminated the tax. It is true that after Esquerra he incorporated it already timidly. She could have been braver... but she didn't. But, anyway, it is true: as we have at least recovered part of this tax. But, of course, when you say change... or make a proposal from the IRPF to change the tax in Catalonia, I'd like to say a few things. Because, surely, by modifying some things we could recapitulate more. And you think it's, like, a trap to the lonely. And then I'll come in. In any case, say that in Catalonia, because you say that all the trams are the highest in Spain..., the tram between the seven thousand and the twenty thousand euros we are the autonomous community, Catalonia, that has the highest. Between the seven and the twenty, that's the people who charge the least. That's to say, those who get less resources for labor returns. This, Catalonia, is one of the highest. And if we're talking about the marginal type of the first tram, that's to say, the ones that cover less, still, of what we say, Catalonia is at 12_per_cent, while other communities, like Madrid or Balears, are at 9.5. It's to say that we have a higher fiscal pressure on those who earn less, that you make less of the work they have. So what we've been doing for a long time, trying to demand a greater effort from those who have the most and reduce the fiscal pressure of those who have the least, is just in line with what you're proposing. Miri, Spain, and I've said it many times in this House, it's the OECD country where inequality grows the most. And it gets used to it that in those countries where there are high levels of inequality there are low levels of fiscal pressure. That's the usual thing to do. To pass ours is like this. I remember that 10_percent of the poorest Spaniards lost 33_percent of their entries between 2007 and 2010, and, in change, 10_percent of the richest lost only 1_per_cent. Therefore, it is true that we have carried all the effort of the crisis to those families, to those people who have less, who have less recapitulation for the returns of the work, or who have less, directly, because they are in the habit and do not have any input in this sense. Therefore, a very unequal and very unfair effort, from our point of view. But, as I said, the high levels of inequality were accompanied by low levels of fiscal pressure. We have one of the countries with the highest nominal types of the European Union for which it does VAT: 21_per_cent, which President Rajoy pushed when he arrived in Moncloa; 54_per_cent of the IRPF, 30_per_cent of societies... But, still, having the highest nominal types, we are of the countries that have less real recaptancy. We are at 37,8_percent of GDP against 46,8 of the European Union average, that is to say that we do have very high types, but after that we receive a little. Therefore, there should be some work here, and obviously its fiscal amnesty, so it does not help, for example, to improve this recap. What helps is to put in more inspectors, is to strengthen the tax agency so that there really is no such leaks and this low recap that we have. As I said, the crisis, which has been going on for many years and in which we are demanding the best efforts, needs a change in what it does to fiscal policy. We have asked for this many times here: a fairer and more progressive tax reform. Tax policy defines a type of society and it is clear that what you share, Mr. People's Party – and Mr. Rodriguez say so – and the Socialist Party shares it, so it is not the same way. And, therefore, we, therefore, cannot be at your side in this sense. Yes, there are others, who came out here today to the Faristol, to make a really complex, difficult speech, huh? , Mr Torrent, because, of course, coming here to try to differentiate itself from the People's Party when in the three, four, five votes there have been in this Parliament on fiscal policy you have voted for it, so, frankly, it makes it difficult..., it makes the argument difficult. And I, at the end of the day, understand that you're filing a petition with totality, because what you don't want to talk about is fiscal policy. What you really don't want is a deep debate about this, because you don't want no change – you don't want no change. That's why you... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's why you present a statement to the totality, because you don't want to debate. I'm not so sure you're here because it doesn't match the tax policy model. Because whenever this is put to the vote they vote together. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, sir, they vote together. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Therefore, I believe that in the end the most clear argument was: we do not want to talk about fiscal policy because we do not want tax reform, as was seen in the assumptions that were presented yesterday. This is a bold change, a substantial and structural reform of fiscal policy. In fact, his secretary of economics, or secretary in charge of the assumptions, Mr Pere Aragonès, on a day that you did about tax reform, said that you would not make punctual changes, because what you want to do is structural reform when a Catalan republic is already in existence. Look, listen, do you know what's going on? Let the Catalans see today, in the present. In the present they have problems and we have to solve them today, not tomorrow. And, therefore, what you have to do is change your taxes today, so that... to have a fairer, more progressive fiscal policy, because it pays more than you have and to get more tickets that allow us to dedicate them to social policies, education and health care. And that's what you don't do. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Miri, Mr. Junqueras, no. I don't know what they're saying, but they don't. And, besides, he didn't want to meet with me to explain it to me. [[Widow's remorse.]] So, listen to me, don't do it, don't explain it to us... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] And now I'll tell him another time I'll deny...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.217.0	Please... I already know they're for the dialog today, but this is a debate, it's not a dialog.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.218.0	Yeah, it's hard to tell, huh? Mr. Junqueras, because I'm looking to offer you some coffee and explain the assumptions before you introduce them, and there's no way. And now you want to have a dialog when you don't touch it. Home, you're wrong... [[the speaker laughs]] You're wrong in the day and you're wrong in the moment, Mr Junqueras, and you know I'm hard, because you would have done well before the presentation in Parliament. In any case, we are not surprised by the proposal made by the People's Party, for tax reform, for which it does, therefore, this modification of the IRPF in the autonomic tram, above all because what they do is reduce, basically lower those that earn from 60,000_euros. These, above all, we treat them well, which surely are the ones who could make the most efforts, so these we reduce the tram. And then you say you're reducing, too, the trams to the classes you're painting most or to the middle classes. And that's not true because the tram up to 35,000, which is 72 percent of the taxpayers, you keep them exactly the same autonomous share, neither support it nor lower it. Therefore, by analyzing his law's proposal, what they do is reduce taxes to those that earn more than 60,000 euros. Therefore, you are very clear about who is asking for the efforts. Obviously, not the ones they have most. And I don't want to go into tax deductions anymore, because Mr. Coscubiela has done so well that I can't do better. But, of course, what bar, say so, huh? It is to say that tax deductions for those who are paying a mutual, that if they are paid it is because they can be paid it. So, we don't make them a tax deduction! If you can afford it, pay it. What needs to be done is not to spare resources from the Administration of the Generality, and to use them, these, to improve public health, public health. That's what needs to be done, don't deduct families who can afford a private mutual. It's just, of course, here you see it, where you, where you went... in fact, Mr. Boi Ruiz already wanted to do it, huh? It's like they're not that far in the end, if they're not so far in the end... you see them all the time. That's why I'm telling them that I think they're talking about the totality that Juntes presents for the Yes, so they don't have to – because they don't want to – because they don't want to, they've already been showing it to you all the time. Mr. Roger Torrent would like to say a few things. Miri, you came here to try to differentiate yourself from the PP, but yesterday they presented assumptions without a deep fiscal policy. He says thanks to his modifications, 1,200_million euros more. It's not true. The increases you've been making in the past few years are 500_million euros. The 1,200 is if we add the best of the economy with the states as well. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, 500_million euros; it's 500, it's not 1,200. And, listen, and the effort you have made in volunteering, the government's takeover with the push of taxes is 109_million euros, and represents of the total tax receipts, a 5.3 – a 5.3. Listen to me, you don't ask for any more effort from whom you have the most, you have stood on the side... – you, I mean, Convergence, PDECAT and Republican Left – on the side of the People's Party. What I hope is that today, listening to the leaders of the CUP, what Roger Torrent said, I don't know, on this processing section can influence a little more because this change, because actually his arguments are quite unbelievable and cost a little bit of belief. This proposal of the law will not pull forward. What we'd like is for the government to have done another..., some others...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.219.0	Mrs Romero, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.220.0	... – Yes, I'm finished –, I've presented some other assumptions and today we can have another debate and another debate, today, here. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.221.0	Next is the words of Mr Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.222.0	Thank you, President. Before we begin, let's say, with the reflection that we want to focus on the question, inform the chamber, in case there is someone who did not know yet, that in Montoro has already announced that it will approve a tax on the sugary drunks to leave it to zero afterwards and, therefore, to prevent us from exercising fiscal sovereignty on this issue. Therefore, perhaps Mr. Rodriguez should self-examinate his mockery, his mockery and the words he has just spoken in this Faristol and inform himself, in any case, before he comes out. That said, for us any look he wants to talk about taxation, and we don't call it the CUP, but the company and company of the Platform for a Fair Fiscality, when they were compared to the Commission for the Study of Measures against Corruption, he has to decide..., any look at taxation has to decide which model of society he wants to build. It is to say, if we are betting on a model of collective responsibility in which we are concerned and concerned about the guarantee of collective social rights, because we are concerned about sanitation, because we are concerned about education, because we are concerned about the fight against inequality, this necessarily involves a tax model because – a tax model because. If, on the other hand, the corporate model for which we bet is exclusively a question of individual responsibility in what matters to us a rave that happens to us when we see it, in what it does not matter if someone is abandoned on the side of the road, this is a much more taxed model. We already know for which model the PP, the Popular Party, and we know very clearly also, for the set of policies it develops, which model of society proposed and of which model of society drink this proposal of law that we vote today. But we will reject, together with other groups in the chamber, his entry into the street, because we believe that it is a proposition of law that is unjust, that it is selfish, that it is insolidary and that defends a model of the field that can. The main reason they put on the table to justify the law – it has already been explained – is an urban legend called ‘high fiscal pressure; an urban legend that has already been explained, here the Eurostat data, which confirm exactly how the Spanish State is very much under the middle with regard to the fiscal pressure. And it's not that this year, Mr. Rodriguez, for a certain economic situation with which you intend to justify this situation, but it's been years since Eurostat taught us its data. Therefore, it is false that the Spanish State has a high fiscal pressure. How false is the other urban legend that Catalans are the ones we pay most, compared to the rest of the autonomous communities. It's a false fact, especially if we look at two dates that Eulàlia was introducing to her appearance of assumptions and that we saw that today she had been collected by other compañeros of the left-wing parliament, in the sense of whether we look at each other with the eyes of 96 percent or if we look at each other with the eyes of 4 percent. Who are these two data? So, it's the percentage data of Catalan taxpayers that, or collect returns from work that reach 60,000_euros per year– these are 96_per_cent– or arrive, with their returns, for over 60,000_euros per year– these are 4_per_cent. And we are certain that, in the 96_per_cent returns, we have the most high-state types of effects, but it is not so when we fix ourselves in the 4_per_cent returns, and so we have an obvious disproportion in our IRPF system that it does injustice, that it does insolidari and that it does regression. Therefore, it is only necessary to look at the comparison of autonomous communities. If we look at the yields of 70,000 euros, we are in the same position; if we look at the returns of 110,000 euros, we look at the returns of 110,000 euros; if we look at the returns of 220,000 euros up, we look at the eleventh position – eleven of fifteen positions, without counting the Spanish colonies in Africa. Therefore, our system is totally atrophied to the top and is atrophied to the 4_per_cent. It's a shame Marta Pascal isn't in the hemicle right now, is it? , the great supposed defender of the middle classes, because she has a very particular middle class concept, the deputy Pascal, which consists of hearing that the middle class is 4_per_cent, when it is obvious that the middle class of this country is between 96_per_cent that supports, as we say, these high types, and not the 4_per_cent that she defends, that she shields, is this privileged elite that today in the types, I repeat, in the comparison of autonomous communities, we are in the eleventh position of fifteen. Moreover, when we are talking about the scale of public resources and the need to guarantee the rights of the majority, we propose not to shield this 4_per_cent, because pushing a point– a point– the type of this 4_per_cent, according to certain studies of our government, would mean an increase of 100_million euros per year. And, therefore, we do not want to defend the privileges of this 4_per_cent, because we want, above all, a republic which, at the moment in which, since the first moment, we have the principle that has more, has to pay more. Therefore, we will vote against this proposal for law submitted to the PP. The scheme that defense is inversely contrary to our request for modification of the IRPF that we have made to the negotiations to the Government in view of the assumptions of 2017; a demand that we have not renounced, that we will continue to insist and that we must make clear, or at least from the humility from which it has the word at this time, that the 1,000_millions of euros that Congressman Torrent assigned do not come from fiscal policies that we have made to improve the tickets, is not that we have 1,000_millions more euros because we fought against the tax fraud, because we have pushed certain taxes... It seems that we have 1,000_millions more euros, above all, that come from the fact that we have derived a good share of the debt to the FLA and that they have lowered the type of interest. And that's what we've been allowed – that's what we've been allowed to – to accumulate 1,000_million more euros, that's for social policies, and that's fine, but let's do the self-criticism – let's do the self-criticism – that these 1,000_million euros don't come in concrete terms that we've done, not just for that negotiation that we asked for and voted for the chamber in the annexes to the 9-N declaration. Because that negotiation with regard to the resident bank and the need to reduce the amounts we pay for the debt, so it has remained, also, unfortunately, like so many other things that they have to see with 9-N, on paper mullat. Okay. We are betting for a model of collective responsibility, for a model of society that needs a lot of resources and that, therefore, it is logical that we ask more of who has more, that we ask more of these famous twenty-seven Catalans of the Forbes list who have a heritage equivalent to the assumption presented by Vice President Junqueras, and not to charge more of these riches..., to us it is the same if it is from the hand of the PP or the hand of Marta Pascal, to us it is the same to shield this unjust taxation, we continue to denounce it by unfair, selfish, insolidity and because it defends the model of fields that can. And the proof of the quota: the question of sanitation, of private sanitation, in this case. Curiously enough, this law, that what it wants, so, again, is to deepen in inequalities, to deepen in the shielding of benefits, proposed to deduct to the taxpayers certain amounts relating to the payment of insurance to private sanitation. We would repeat a question that has already been asked here: if those who have resources, those who, at the declaration of their income, do not have the co-responsibility to take on the effort in the payment of the expenses of public health, then who will support the expenses of the public health system that we want universal and of quality and that only a moment ago, in the previous point, have we voted precisely to universalize still more and to guarantee its enlargement? Therefore, in the name of the defence of public services, in the name of this universalization of rights as compassionate and as we voted on the previous point, we want a fairer, more proportional, more progressive fiscal policy, and we will continue to defend it here and there, because this is a struggle that still has a lot of recourse. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.223.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Roger Torrent and Ramio ask to speak.]] Mr. Torrent, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.224.0	Yes; President, thank you. For allusions. There have been many. I promise that I will be brief, but, I insist, there have been many allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.225.0	All right, let's go.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.226.0	Yes, to Congresswoman Romero: it's 1,200 million euros more, this year's recap, annual. Anyway, look at the project that the vice president delivered to this Parliament yesterday, take a good look at it and you'll see it. And in any case, in this coffee that you offered to the vice president, I'm sure the vice president will be happy to be able to teach him and explain it to him, and if not, I also offer myself to show him that these are actually 1,200_million euros more. A thousand-hundred-million euros more, precisely, Mr. Salellas, which are of recaptancy. These are only a recaptancy; therefore, from the modification of taxes, from the modification of fiscal policy that has taken place these last few years. It is also true that this also has to do with the better of the economic situation, but it does not have to see, in this case, these 1,200_million, with the better, let's say, of the type of interest. I'm done – I'm done, I'm done – Madam President... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Home, I've heard a lot of allusions, President. Mr. Rodriguez, he hasn't done many, he's been told the subject...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.227.0	They were not allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.228.0	...of taxes incurred. In any case, I am convinced that he will explain it, which he has said here to Mr. Montoro, and I am sure that from today you will also be a staunch defender more than what we believe is the independence of Mr. Montoro. And finally, to say that... – the last, the last, the president–, to say that... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The last – the last – to say that those who defend a just tax treatment for Catalonia are victims is to lose the effort made by Catalans and Catalans. Thank you, President, for your kindness. [[Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.229.0	Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.230.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ... of Article 85 relating to the allusions of Mr Santi Rodríguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.231.0	Contradictions?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.232.0	No, allusions – allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.233.0	I didn't hear you greet him, but maybe I felt it badly. Say, say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.234.0	Thank you. Mr. Rodriguez, if you've tried to insult us with the "castrist" you didn't get it. In any case, that Mr. Manuel Fraga has not listened to him, that at the same time he is, because he will be angry enough with you. I should better pick the arguments, especially the techniques. To say that Spain grows more because it turns out that it has fewer taxes is to forget its argument, because if we have as many taxes in Catalonia as you say, we should grow less than in Spain and, therefore, we grow more. And this cannot stand the comparison, for example, with the efficiency of the Nordic countries. This idea of few taxes equal to economic growth only the Trump tea, and today you have done, fiscally, Trump català. I'm sorry, but someone should have told you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.235.0	I understand that these are contradictions, Mr. Coscubiela, not allusions, but now it's the same. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's it – that's it, that's it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's here. No, you haven't been greeted, directly; the one that passes, that... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, I didn't understand that to castrify the al·ludien to you, if that's it... Anyway, let's get to the vote. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.236.0	To me they alluded, contradicted me, and, therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.237.0	Yes – yes, yes. They alluded to him—they alluded to him—yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.238.0	...I'd ask you the thirty-seconds of the same size as Mr. Torrent, the seconds. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.239.0	Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.240.0	Thank you, Madam President. First question: I believe that neither Mr. Torrent, nor the CUP, nor some other parties believe that they have read the proposal or have not listened to me. We've talked about lowering the income tax on yields, basically, down. Mrs Romero, I have not just heard what the tax amnesty was, whether 1984 or 1991. [[Widow's remorse.]] Exactly, he didn't just hear it. And in relation to Mr. Torrent, right? They say: « There are 1,200_million more recapitation in the assumptions. No, there are 3,400 more, more than 900_millions that are in the interests of the FLA; of that « scam that is the FLA, according to the president of the Group of Junts for the Yes, you have more than 4,000_millions more entrances than in the year 2015, and of these more than 4,000, they dedicate only 1,000 to social policies. I'm done, Madam President. Mr. Coscubala, Mr. Castro deserves me more revulsion than he doesn't respect. And, as for Trump, look at Mr. Trump's program, which will surely find more coincidences with his than with ours. [[Voice remorse and some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.241.0	Then we proceed to the vote of the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot and the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. We shall proceed to the vote. The vote on the papers begins. The items were approved by 96 votes to 10, with 24 abstentions. As the reviews have been accepted, this legislative initiative is rejected. [[Proposed law amending the seven additional provision of Law 14/2010, the rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence (debate of totality)]] [[202-00041/11]] The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law amending the seven-year additional provision of Law 14/2010, the rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules, he presented the initiative, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mr Raúl Moreno. [[Widow's remorse.]] Congressman, I hope, please, that they're out. [[Pause.]] Thank you for going out in silence and in a hurry. [[Pause.]] When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.242.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, the Honourable Conselera Bassa, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has sought to promote the modification of the seven additional provision of the Law on the Rights and Opportunities of Children and Adolescents, among other things, with a very clear objective, and it is clear who has to collect the orphan's pensions and benefits per child. As it is about a topic that is a little technical in a few points, I will try to do a more general intervention because you can hear the purpose of this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the adoption of the 2010 Law of Rights and Opportunities for Children and Adolescents meant a very important moment for our country, in the sense that all those rights that were demanded of us by the social entities and also by the same government of abroad ended up in a law voted for by all political parties with parliamentary representation that gave priority to the best interests of the child to our society, to non-discrimination, to the right to be heard, to their protection and, therefore, to be a good law. In fact, no one is complaining about the content of the law right now. What they are complaining about, in any case, is the lack of regulation that you have to deploy this law and the lack of assumptions to carry it forward. In fact, today we still have some decrees that are coming to an end, but they have not seen the light and, therefore, we continue with this insufficient deployment of the Law of Rights and Opportunities of Childhood. But, well, I'm going to leave the criticism for more forward, because I want to focus on the content of the proposal. In Catalonia there are 6,988 children and young people together for the Government of Catalonia, both in reception centres, in residential centres of educational activity or intensive residential centres, all with very different realities; some in foster care, in an alien or extended family, in foster care, in a centre, some with living couples, other orphans, and the vast majority of them with child-to-child benefits, well because the rebeau is soon before being protected or well because they have been protected for a long time. Therefore, various situations with different rights in relation to pensions and benefits. Prior to 2010, the Directorate-General for Child and Adolescent Care, DGAIA, returned to children and adolescents the amounts of their orphan's pensions and the child's allowance. It was a guardian's menu that, when these teenagers ceased to be guardians, they would return the pensions so that they could, therefore, fit in or hold what was right for them, the right that they had to pay for this thought. And then, all the same, reap what is the equivalent of the minimum income of insertion, the 426_euros. With the arrival of the new law, the wording of the seven additional provision gave place to different interpretations. And the wording, the current one, which still has not changed, says: "The import of the benefits or pensions from which children or adolescents who are under the protective measures or guard in charge of the protective entity are entitled remains affected to cover the expenses arising from the attention of the public service they receive. The article does not speak of the return of the quantities to finish the guardianship, further open the door to which we consider a co-opted covert of a public service collected to the law of social services. Both this and since the approval of the law, the year 2010, until the year 2012, it has suspended the application of this article, but – surprise – the year 2012 the Government, through an instruction, the 1/2012, on benefits and pensions of the social security system, has decided to affect the pensions of hundreds of children and young people in our country. And before this covert co-op of a public service many social entities and the Greuges Synod also spoke and spoke during all these years that we had to change this article, because it was absolutely unfair. Affecting the pensions and benefits of a child's social security to pay for a residential service, to be read and to exemplify to what extent the details of this government have also affected the children and young people of our country, is a flagrant failure of the existing standard mark, because the title of the benefits and pensions of social security is of the people, of the children, in this sense they have right. And one other thing is who administers these benefits. And second of all, because infants help keep the cost of a service that's free. The government did not choose to change the portfolio of social services, which it could have done. If you consider that a co-payment of this service should be made, change your social service portfolio and co-payment. But no, that was too obvious and, therefore, they gave me instruction. And it seems to us that, even though it's more discreet, evil is the same. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, do you think that the minor wards have to pay the cost of residential centres in Catalonia? So, that's what's happening right now. Or I will give you another example: do you imagine that a child with a disability is no longer aware of his or her performance in order to use an adapted transport service? It's exactly the same. For this reason, the government, which is often giving pit shots of the defense of infants, has been defending this co-sponsorship by mediating the instruction of the year 2012 until today. And in fact, in addition, he was proactive, because those children who impeded without an orphan's thought or who had not managed it, the child's allowance, one time they impeded being protected, the same DGAIA managed them. And now we know that it wasn't so much to guarantee your rights to collect the pension, but it was because it was this way, somehow it's contributing, too, to the support of the same service. I want to venture, since there are no official data on infants and this is a criticism that we have repeatedly made, to make an approximation of how much a minor guardianship brings to the Generality that has a right to an orphan's pension or a child's benefit. They claim that the maximum pension per orphan is about 380 euros per year and that the child's benefit per child is about 291 euros per year, a child or young person in our country could be paying 671 euros per year for a service that, as I say, reverses the law as free. We find ourselves in front of a system in which some children and adolescents contribute with their thoughts and others, no. However, when they cease to be protected, they are given the equivalent of the minimum income of insertion, the EUR 426 per month, when they wear more than three years under guardianship and do a job placement program. That is to say, they all come out with the same benefits, but some have contributed 671_euros, because they are orphans, and others are not, because they have, for example, living couples but they do not have the protection, a fact that is absolutely unfair. The proposal of the law that we present from the Socialist Parliamentary Group wants to reverse this situation by returning to what is ugly before 2010. We consider that all children and adolescents who cease to be wards should be entitled to 426 euros, but those who hold pensions or social security benefits should be entitled to more, than they are close to. It is necessary to return to the guard system before the shameful instruction of the year 2012. And, therefore, we propose the following wording: "The import of benefits or pensions from which children or adolescents are entitled shall be paid to them at the time the protective measures are completed or at the expense of the protective entity. Only by changing this additional arrangement can we put ourselves to an unfair fate brought to an end to our country by the year 2012. And, besides, it's a theme to totality, to our totality, because we all approved this law, because we left an article that was unclear and, therefore, what we need now is to put all our efforts to reverse this situation that, I insist, was, moreover, repeated with the instruction of the year 2012. I will not exhaust the minutes that I have, but I do not want to end up without making a general reflection around the minor wards for DGAIA to our country and the management that the department is making of this reality. And to allow a situation like this, like the statement, you say a lot of what is the concern on the part of the Government in the protection of childhood, adolescence, in our country. And if the government continues to give itself pitiful shots of the defense of childhood, lady counsel, why hasn't the government even acted like a popular accusation to the court of the Marists? This House approved it more than a month ago. You, together for the Yes, voted against it twice, then, in five minutes. But this Parliament forced them to present themselves as a popular accusation to the judges of the Marists. And, of course, I would like to take this opportunity to greet Mr. Manuel Barbero, whom we have at the rostrum. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ja; they don't have to tell me; they probably have to tell him. What are we waiting for? Where are the three hundred nine places of CRAE and CREI, of residential center of educational action and of residential center of intensive education, which agreed this Parliament during the month of May also sending a motion to the plenary? If you defend children's rights, why are you making us a guaranteed income proposal when from the third member you are increasing doze_euros and not the cent_euros? , that they will have to finish increasing already with the guaranteed income of citizenship or already through the PEUC, which this Parliament is also managing. We consider it absolutely necessary. You say to us: "No, but this can also be compatible with the food trucks. Yes, but it's that, besides, they have to eat, and, more importantly, they have to dress, and they have to have the necessary hygienic resources. So, it's not just a deal that I can dinate one day. And to note that there are still girls and girls who, while having a proposal for income to a residential center, are at home, because there are no places, and at home, surely, of families, still, where they have somehow been violated their rights or have had some kind of neglect or abuse. I'm done. Nothing has been done about the childhood of everything that has been approved by this Parliament, Madam Counselor. During this year, we haven't had any real change policy that I can see infancy in our country. And, therefore, what they ask of you – they ask the group to give the Government a lift, but also to you, counsel – is that we take seriously the decisions that are taken in this Parliament, because the Members of all political parties are making efforts to try to improve our system, but we need the Government to take note of what this Parliament is saying. And, of course, there are examples... the last one, yesterday. This Parliament has committed itself to putting in a match for the guaranteed income of citizens. It's not there. It's not there! It's just that they don't get along! It's just that you guys voted yes. And when I got out of this Parliament, Madam Counselor, I listened to him at the radio saying that that's what you wanted to do and that you had bet directly on this subject. There's not a guaranteed citizen's income match. And that also means defending the rights of infants and families. If there is, it must be the only one who saw it, because the rest of the political parties were looking for the guaranteed income heading of citizenship. And if there is, why have they not made it guaranteed by citizenship, that is the agreement that this Parliament has taken? It is a matter of taking note of the popular will expressed by this Parliament, which you use for whatever you want. Please, we need more concrete, more courage, if we really want to defend the rights of childhood in our country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.243.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreno. As no totality papers have been submitted, we will continue to intervene from all groups to fix their position. In the first place, has the word Laura Vílchez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.244.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. The first thing I did when I learned that I would be the child spokesperson for my parliamentary group was to review Law 14/2010 on Rights and Opportunities in Children and Adolescents, a law that had been passed for six years and that was still and still not deployed for the most part because of the lack of regulations, and therefore did not have the best instrument for the implementation of a law. They will surely have seen us ask for this regulation in a multitude of parliamentary initiatives. A priori I was surprised by the long period of time this law had been in a drawer; surprised, because we consider it an important law, a fundamental law for the future of our society, for the development on equal terms of Catalan children and adolescents. But there is something that has already been regulated since 2012, something that DGAIA has been quick to approve by means of an instruction, something that seemed to be of interest to prioritise before the rest of its article. There is an article in this law that I had to read and reread well in the hope that my reading comprehension was making waters; an article that leaves "ojiplatic to anyone and that we believe that it perverts the spirit of this law; an article that blurs the title that they wanted to give him, which are precisely the rights and opportunities of childhood and adolescence. This article is the seventh additional provision, which states: "The amount of benefits or pensions for which children and adolescents are entitled shall be affected to cover the costs arising from the public service they receive. In other words, fostered children who receive some social security benefit co-sponsor a public protection service. But, gentlemen, this is not a co-sponsor; this is a right. Children in Catalonia and anywhere, whether they are beneficiaries of benefits or not, have the right to be protected by the administrations. And this article also violates the principles contained in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. They support a service included in the Social Services Portfolio, which should therefore be free for them, it would be missing more. Copagan, as the Sindico de Greuges says, discriminates against the rest of the children under guardianship, who, regardless of their economic capacity, must not contribute to the cost of these services if they do not receive any benefits. This causes, for example, a child or adolescent, orphan, who has, precisely because of his condition, his sad vital circumstance of having lost his closest relatives..., and receives an orphan's pension that attributes to him social security, must deliver it without asking the Administration to compensate for the cost of the protection he receives and invest in it everything he has. And that, therefore, when he reaches the age of majority, the day he turns eighteen, the day he must leave the protection system for which he has been contributing while he has been protected, he will do so with one hand ahead and one hand behind. It is true that social security proposes to pay these benefits to those in charge of it; but it is the Administration that has its guardianship that greed should not appear on the scene. The Administration must ensure the protection of all Catalan children and adolescents. Point. Administrations must commit themselves as firmly as possible to ensuring that this protection is never discriminatory or unfair; they must show their institutional commitment to providing the necessary economic and moral support to adolescents who, after having spent some time under guardianship, start a new stage in their lives by opening up the age of majority. But to this day entering without savings to start an adult life is a leap without network. Empathize and put yourself in position: without the moral support of a family, often with little education and no income. The justification given to us by the Generalitat to maintain that impact is to finance the public service they provide. Well, let's talk about the quality of that service. As we all know: under-funded centers, lack of places and, therefore, saturation of centers; a school failure that rubs 80_per_cent among the under-protected minors. Would you pay for such a service? It can, then, give you the situation of a young man leaving a CRAE without anything in his pockets, without training, without a school graduate, many times, even with a backpack full of stories that many of us would not endure and with some or many problems. As you can see, a complicated majority debut, if we take into account that we are talking about highly vulnerable 18 - year - olds. Surely, someone will explain to you the programs that the Generalitat puts at your disposal, programs that many of them will give up because they don't know how to develop if they don't have a guide to show them the way. With a bit of luck, some EAIA will pull out a cable before closing its helplessness file, even if it exceeds its functions, or you will find some social entity from which you will receive this help. But, as responsible administration, it is not only intolerable for the weakest to be gnawed at, but it should also not leave all that difficult and delicate work to the third sector. Irony of life: the record of helplessness is closed when the elderly flamingo is more helpless than ever before; they face a competitive labour market with a poor training curriculum, most of them, but they must access that market in any way if they want to have access to the aid of the Generalitat; access, in many cases, with an unregulated training to a labour market that puts the bar on us, all, very high, and also, of course, to them. Therefore – and I'm finished – although we know that this Children's Act had the consensus of this chamber, we believe that some concepts need to be reviewed, because in this case they can be given, it can lead to unfair situations. For this reason, we are grateful to the Socialist Party for bringing to the full the repeal of these allocations of its pensions. In fact, in the General Policy Plenary, this demand was also part of our proposals. That is why, because we share this initiative, because it is simply fair, we will vote in favour of it continuing its course. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.245.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The words of Ms Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.246.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members, Members, I would like to thank the Socialist Party for presenting this Proposal for amending the seven-year additional provision of the Law on the Rights and Opportunities of Children and Adolescents. My group believes that it is just and that it is absolutely necessary that pensions and social security benefits that children and adolescents perceive, and that accumulates the DGAIA, be paid when the situation of unemployment is over or when the majority of the age has sunk. This is an important issue and one that has a certain recurrence in this Parliament; there has already been a motion for a resolution on this very issue in April 2013, and the Republican Left of Catalonia and the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia voted against it with pilgrim arguments that show up to what extent they ignore or consider themselves more ignorant of the precarious situation of young people and extolled young people. The same syndic, in its 2015 Report on the Rights of Infants and Young People, emphasises the need to eliminate the impact of pensions and benefits of foster children and adolescents protected by DGAIA. From one side, because the ownership of these pensions and benefits corresponds to the foster children, with independence from who gets the subscription and who gets the administration. Therefore, pensions are children's and children's, not DGAIA's. And on the other hand, because the decision to affect the pensions of the boys and girls to support the expenses generated by their attention imposed on them and on them, as has already been said, the obligation to contribute to maintaining the cost of a service that the Social Service Portfolio defines as free. Now, in his 2016 report, the syndic insists on these arguments, but adds another argument: considers that the impact of social security pensions is a burden compared to the boys and girls who hold them, respecting the rest of the minor guardianships for the DGAIA, who, independently of their economic capacity or possible level of entry, do not have to contribute to the maintenance of the cost of the service. So not only does the trustee appoint him in his reports, but also that he has asked us to do so, but also that he dictates to us the sense of social justice, we rejoice that there is no mention of totality, and we hope that the proposition of law can be dealt with. We know the intention of the Government, the accompanying law, to affect a part of the import of pensions to support food expenditure. Our group believes that once we have wired the needle we should do it well, and therefore we cannot share that the part of food continues to receive it from the Administration. Keep in mind that the measure of making them full pensions seems insufficient because they and young extolls can cope with the life that awaits them outside the centers. You know, in many cases for your own experience, how young people have delayed their emancipation. In Catalonia only one of the four young people under the age of thirty is emancipated. Most young people justify it for lack of economic resources. I repeat, three-quarters of our young people don't emancipate until they're thirty years old. In change, to young extolls, those who have lived under the man of the DGAIA, we ask them to espavilinate and continue to go away from home – the center – and to viscose for their own media in different years. On the other hand, only 70 percent of the under-twenty-year-olds have managed to finish high school when they play – a 70, more or less, with the younger, and the younger. Of the young extolls that we emancipate, whether you want as if you do not want, those who have obtained the compulsory high school graduation do not arrive at 10_per_cent. More data: Between 20 and 24 years the time in Catalonia is 30_per_cent. Between 16 and 19 years is 41.8_per_cent. For the population range that only has primary studies, the duration may be 60_per_cent. Can you imagine in what situation of job insecurity and training are these young wards that we emancipate in different years? But they don't end up here; they also have to be emotional. In a European study on the educational itineraries of young extolls, boys and girls exposed feelings of insecurity, anger and why they experienced when they were forced to take over the kingdoms of their lives. Don't surprise us, any of us... any of our children would experience the same feelings in a situation that looks like it. Moreover, we cannot forget that while in the protection system they have often been stigmatised with the label of children and young conflicts, also in the school environment, until they themselves sometimes refer to the population outside the system as normal young people. Obviously, this self-perception does not contribute to a good emotional balance or to a moderately acceptable self-esteem. In all cases, the fact that the autonomy of CRAEs has not been promoted enough, not because educators and educators do not want it, but because the system does not allow it. On the one hand, the young guardian-educator ratio is very high; on the other hand, many of the learnings acquired in the family are often acquired by osmosis, for example, buying food, managing the money, managing the stuff..., are difficult to relax in a center, because educators do not have the necessary conditions or because the protocols prevent them, for example, from entering the kitchen to make the dinner. In general, it is considered that there is a series of risk factors to be able to make an appropriate transition to adulthood. These include: low educational qualification; precarious or irregular occupation; low wages; lack of family economic support; weak or absent family ties; lack of training in relation to the same health; low self-esteem. We'll have to admit that a lot of young extolls have a lot or all the risk factors. It is obvious, therefore, that they find themselves in a position of frank inequality with respect to the young general population. Do you, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament really think that you have the same opportunities your children have had? Emancipation will in these cases produce without guarantees that the young person has reached the level of autonomy sufficient, which will lead him to a clear situation of vulnerability. Of course the Support Area for Young Guardians and Extutes is in charge of helping these young people to emancipate, and we are not happy, that this is the way it is, but we think that we need to make more use of it and more time. On the other hand, we know that at the meeting of the Taula Nacional de la Infància de Catalunya, held in September of enguany, another draft decree was presented for which the support for emancipation and personal autonomy of the extolled persons is specifically regulated. This decree provides for the development of a work plan between the reference professional and the affected young person, so that there is a picture of the measures to be taken and the objectives that are intended to be achieved for emancipation into adulthood. The real problem in the fact that only those young people who solicit him will have it right. That makes a lot of young extolls stand on the edge of this measure, first of all the girls. I want to make a special emphasis on the question of gender, since according to the studies that we have read and according to what we have been told by the entities that deal with the young extutes, it is detects that the extute girls..., independently of what their country of origin and their religion is, the majority of the extute girls or guardians are of Spanish origin – a question that is different in the case of the girls, that are half of here, half of the origin alienate –, they have a behavior, the girls, different from the guys. They have as their vital objective to have a creature and form their own family. In fact, a few months ago, talking to one of the entities that cares or that has floors for extolled boys, they explained to us that they don't have girls, that the guardianship girls, when they arrive at the same age, disappear. Are we going to stop? At the home of the "boyfriends with whom the heads of the week have become emboldened. If forming a family is its vital objective in terms of personal autonomy, it is that as a society we have failed sorely. We also fail because the emotional relationships they establish with their peers are genuinely unequal. Says a report: "In a large number of cases it is detected that masculinism and violence are present, even though girls show difficulties in detecting it, often as a consequence of their own life history. In this sense, it is observed that the girls reproduce a female role based on submissiveness and dependence on their peers, that they exercise constant control of their voids and provide them with a material and economic well-being. I'll let them figure out what future they can have these girls. Second of all, they won't ask for help, the help the Administration gives them, many of the extolls, for different reasons, but this is no reason to abandon them to their fate. Finally, I want to point out that the young extolls need a mentor, a referent, to be able to pull forward. Of course, volunteering is very important at this point, so it wouldn't be a bad idea to campaign to get to know it and empower it. For this reason, I recommend you to read the bar of great expectations, by J. R. Moehringer. It may not be a great novel, but it does make it possible to hear the importance of mentoring. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.247.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next is the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.248.0	President, Councillor, Members, Members, Mr Barbero, well, I will not exhaust, nor much less, the time; I believe that very useful explanations have been given, very well explained. I am pleased that there is a consensus and that this debate is to be held; that is to say, that there is something that is failing the current legislation and that we therefore need to study how we can improve it, right? And, therefore, we also want to thank the deputy of the Socialist Party for this proposal for a law in favour of foster care, at a time when – at a time when – a time when it is up to you – you have some public reflection on the role of DGAIA. A reflection, therefore, that..., of course, a few months ago posed the deputy Lienas who..., then, various cases, also brought them the diaries, the families and... Actually, we are in a moment..., and it is time for a sincere reflection, serene, expert, very strict on some protocols, some forms of the DGAIA that we do not say are not adequate but that, perhaps, it is worth rethinking them among all and, especially, among the people who know the most. Here is a very simple question that we also asked for the year 2013 in a motion for a resolution to the welfare committee, which is that the Generalitat does not use the children's pensions to make them pay their stay or to make them pay other expenses, right? We, as I say, asked for the year 2013 and asked that the total number of these pensions be reserved for as long as the majority of the age is full or no longer being protected, right? , because it may be, in reality, this game, a channel of enlarging these children, which, as the deputy of Ciutadans said, is really the moment of most loss of life; it is an interesting reflection. That is to say, we take special care of them and, despite the difficulties involved... And thank you that sometimes..., of course, now, Mrs Lienas said to us: "They need more autonomy, but then there is some problem, counsel, that something happens outside the centres and they say to the committee: "They need more control. And they need you to get more on top of it. You're saying it's very complicated, aren't you? It is very complicated, however, in any case, in this case and at this vital moment, they are in particular unmanned and, therefore, we must accompany them. And it seems to us that the situation in force, which dates from the year 2012, does not meet a number of requirements, does it not? : Incompletes the ownership of the pensions, incompletes the gratuity derived from the Service Portfolio and introduces discrimination between the young wards. And, therefore, we think it very convenient that we open this period of time to guarantee the rights of infants, to recover the money that is derived and to which they have right – we also need to talk – to rethink also the money management, for example, at some point when they may have some need, therefore, to listen more, to have them present in the monetary decisions during the period of protection and why they can dispose of these money in full to leave the rule of protection. He told us before our spokesman... Santi Rodríguez says: "There are 3,000 million more to the assumptions– 3,000 million more– this year. Home, maybe it's just that we find a little game to help this collection, which is especially vulnerable. We'll work in this sense. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.249.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next comes the word Gabriela Serra, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.250.0	« Catxis the sea! I thought I could use your minutes, Fernando, but no. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, how are you? – to Mr. Barbero, to accompany us. Well, today, it has already been said... – I will also try not to exhaust the time, but I know that no one will believe it – today we are dealing with the amendment of Law 14/2010, which, as we have said repeatedly, affects the most vulnerable population, the one that, dissortably, we have separated from their families in order to protect them, right? And, unfortunately, we are discussing one thing, too, it has been said, a benefit, that if we have a right to the "life guaranteed, housing guaranteed and a minimum income of insertion would not be worth discussing. But now, as now, we have neither a guaranteed income of citizenship nor a right to housing. Therefore, we must continue to talk about it. But, it's worth saying that what we're doing is we're putting down shoots, maybe good poses, but shoots. Because what we're discussing today is how, to extolled young people, they've denied the minimum guarantees to take their future in the immediate future once they're out of the box where they're protected or where they're in custody, right? And, of course, what is very thoughtful is to say: "And why? How is it possible that Ishagi prevented these young people and these young people, always with much more problems than they... – as the companion Lienas said very well – "as it did, this? And we have to remember that it was the DGAIA that, during the government of the Lord Mas, enjoyed having some money, by means of Instruction 1/2012, of which it should not..., because it was money that was destined to finance something different from the destination they had, which was to finance the protection system. And this system of protection of our infants, which is very good and which we recognize is necessary and even all that has good things, was to dress it up by undressing another saint, right? Why? Well, because some money that came from social security and that came to be the economic help that you guarantee a minimum chance to enter the future to these young people and these young people were used to pay attention that these young people and these young people were looking for while they were under the protection of DGAIA. And, besides, they paid for protection, or they paid for their protection, for them and for them, when the Social Service Portfolio is defined as this protection that would have to be free. Well, the interested reading at that time, and restrictive, of the DGAIA towards transitional provision number 7, today we have the possibility to remove it, and, therefore, it is what we are doing. I mean, it's been said, too, huh? , which, as the Synod of Greeks put forward, this disposition should never have existed, because it incompletes the standard mark in force at those times. What I ask myself, we ask ourselves, and from a point of view of restorative justice... it would be useful to know how many children and adolescents were affected by the application of Instruction 1/2012. And ask us, too, if these guys and girls will be able to recover the heavy suffering by applying with retroactive character the payment of a benefit that they would never have been expelled from, right? So, because the transition to adulthood, and we're discussing a youth that affects adults, it's pretty complex for anyone who lives in Catalonia, for any young person who lives in Catalonia. It has been said, but a recent study of the Research Team in Childhood, Adolescence, Rights of Childhood and its Quality, of the University of Girona, located in twenty-nine years the middle age of emancipation. And you also tell us that since 2007, at our home, 49.1 of the jobs occupied by young people has been destroyed, and that we have gone from 847,000 jobs occupied by young people in 2009 to 431,000 in 2016, the first quarter of 2016, and these jobs, with a temporality of 45.7_per_cent. It is obvious, therefore, that the social policies that favor our young people if they want to emancipate can do so and that they are not limited see are an urgency. But in the absence of these social policies, still non-existent... what have they done? - What have they done? They have transferred to the families, to the circle, to the family network, the responsibility of maintaining and giving water, so it inhabits, to the children, and to the girls, and some, with more precariousness still, to the grandchildren and grandchildren. In the case of adolescent persons in custody or guardianship, the problem is still more regrettable, because we have established for their protection that these persons should be separated from the family nucleus, and in most cases, also due to lack of social policies, the greater number of these families, the situation of these families, which allows and allows the situation to be reinvested facilitating the return to the family nucleus..., makes it absolutely unlikely, right? For another band, despite the fact that Article 146 of Law 14/2010 establishes measures for the transition to adult life and autonomy, we find that our adolescents, guardians or guardians, who have arrived at the same age, are encouraged to go to first-accommodated centres or to shelters for adults who are not at home, once their situation of dependence on the DGAIA ends. I might think, therefore, if we take our young people to social exclusion as a step from their transition to adulthood, and we do not offer a suitable place to live, and we do, moreover, aggravating a problem already existing in our home, such as the problem of sensellarism. For another band, while Article 152 provides for programs to support the emancipation and personal autonomy of young extute students and in a risk situation to promote equal opportunities, it is established that they must complete established requirements, that it would be opportune to know them, who are these requirements and how many are the extute people who have not been able to reach them. Why? Because we have a problem, it was also said: this one was very welcome and greeted, because it completes the role of agglutinating things that were scattered. But today the law's deployment is not up to 60_per_cent and the law's regulatory development is still smaller. Therefore, we find that there are a series of principles and concepts that are not developed. Because to arrive at a situation of sensillarism for which they do not access it, has the aggravating, moreover, that does not happen immediately, but that some young people, depending on the time they have been protected, can have a service with different durations, but that at the end of this service they can reach sensillarism in twenty-one years, or later. From this moment on, they have to count on a job to have access to a precarious labour market that does not guarantee security in tickets and that face the difficulty of obtaining a benefit, because it is not regulated and because it is not known what the criteria are to meet. We have to think that in Catalonia we have a youth rate of 27,8_per_cent, 166,100 young people of whom they have..., a 36_per_cent of these young people have been looking for more than a year to work. And, more than that, only 11,2_percent of the young people who have ended up receiving some subsidy or benefit. Well, let's look at these young people in an already unfortunate situation; but if, moreover, we add that, since there is no subsequent follow-up of the young guardians or guardians, neither can these young guardians count on the socio-educational support of those educators, of those companies that have indeed accompanied them during their childhood. And in most cases, in addition, given his family history, personal..., they rely on a scarce support network, or it's non-existent, as we said. To these young people we ask the impossible: we ask them to achieve levels of training and express autonomy when their starting situation is profoundly disadvantaged. And the situation gets worse if, moreover, we take into account the lack of coordination of skills that we have in the administrations. Because, for a band, while they're protected, it's an autonomous competition; but the basic social services that they're supposed to have when they're adults and they're out of DGAIA's responsibility. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] take municipal responsibility; therefore, this is a problem. Is that all right? [[Pause.]] Yeah. No, not yet, is it? Well, we have a proposal before Sensellarism; we believe that we have arrived at a time when the government has announced the Catalan strategy of Sensellarism and we invite our foster teens to go on to end up with services that are correct. Therefore, it would be worth planning for a social housing package where you can make a transition to adult life, which promotes social inclusion and not excludes it, where you can have a safe, adequate and not live with the anxiety that at the time of divorce or at the age of twenty-one is unhindered. In the end, the law combined a scattered law, but it was welcome for this, but the reality is that its partial development is a disproposal. It is necessary to develop the LDOIA on a regular basis so as to resolve the intervention procedures of the competent Administration; it is necessary to develop the whole of the law, and to accompany it with a proper assumption for its deployment, if not so, and it has also been said, the declarations of this Parliament are merely declarations of good intention and no commitments of action transforming situations of failure to fulfil rights. Look, the law we want to talk about today has a precious name: the law of rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence. Maybe we'll set up, advise, plant all our folds, guarantee our rights, open opportunities because these young people and these young people who have barely passed away, who have suffered because of the situation they've experienced, can see a horizon where dignity and happiness for the most just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.251.0	Lady Serra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.252.0	...is a reality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.253.0	...exhausted...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.254.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.255.0	...time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.256.0	I'm done... [[Give me the applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.257.0	The words of Ms. Montserrat Vilella, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.258.0	Well, thank you, President. We will try to focus, from Junts to Yes, on what they propose in this bill, because I understand that, as there was a single article, so many of the groups have taken advantage of it to say a lot of childhood things that the truth is that it is a complex issue; so, in this Parliament at the time it created the Commission of Childhood to be able to work a lot of aspects. To tell them that we have not presented a full text because we understand that it is well that we can debate, and so we have also expressed it when, on another occasion, I believe that you yourself have proposed it as a text by City, and together with the Government, you have proposed that this topic be done by the Commission of Infancy, because we understand that it was a matter of a single article, but with a certain complexity at the time of development and with the possibilities of improving it, that we understand that there could be, and we understand that the Commission of Infancy could be a good place to be able to listen to the Director-General of Infancy, and that we understand better that this topic could be done in the way that it was possible, and that the Council of Infance could be a good place to be able to hear the Director-General of Infance, and that it could be done in the way that it could be done, that the Council of Infance, in the sense that it could be explained, in the way that it could be done. It's more far, sure, from this government and from the past, and also from the group than the defenses. Therefore, we understand that you want to ensure and, therefore, we admit that this is a matter for debate. It will not be in the Committee on Children, but in the matter, we will see exactly how, but it will be this way, we will debate it, and we can do it in a more calm way. At any rate, we do not like the progress that the wording that you propose to us does not like us, because we understand that at that time it was a step forward and a derogation, that is, to go back to the way we were, it would not make us better, but it would actually make us go where we were, which, as we explained now, was not the best of situations either. And I'm saying that because they explained and assumed a whole series of things that we don't think are right. We are talking, as you say, about who manages the benefits and pensions that children who are in guardianship or custody... that the DGAIA has. And these benefits or pensions come from the Spanish State, because, whether we want it or not, so, to the Spanish State, all the taxpayers, and the Catalans too, we bring some money to the social security box, which is in Madrid, in the Spanish State, and, moreover, the key is also there. And it is Congress that determines and legislates how this distribution of these Social Security cash is to be made, which will make the pensions and benefits that will guarantee each of the children who is close to it. These pensions and benefits – we're talking basically about the child's benefit and the orphan's, orphan's pension –..., which defines the State, which is who has the key and who defines it..., which defines the State is what will be for the care and education of infants, and which, moreover, will charge who does this task effectively. However, even so, when this provision of 2010 was established in the Children's Law, and after the interpretation that was made, the Government, at that time, in 2012, as you explained, what it was established is that these moneys, to manage them, would not go to the single box of the Generality, which is what is usually done with the entrances of the Generality, that there is a single box, but they would go to the DGAIA, they already understand that they were moneys that were to be preserved for the policy of childhood and for the policy of the guardians and of the children that surrounds them. I, therefore, already put it in this DGAIA box. And, at the same time, and here you see the important point, at the same time, what has been done is the program of extolls, which is a program in which the extolled answer some money, you already explained, and more so you have a program of real follow-up and effect for a few years to help, because, if not, you have already explained it, too, in different years are very young and more, many times, with many added difficulties. Therefore, this was parallel: these moneys were in the DGAIA box and more was being implemented in this program, which has been a pioneer and international referent, which is sure to be better, and we can talk about it in ponència, but in any case what we do not have to do is to go back. And this was connected to the other, it was not a matter of co-sponsorship of a service that was already established to have it, but, parallel to this affect, it was done the program of extolls. Everything is better, obviously, and we count on the collaboration of all the groups to be able to improve it. So we understand that to improve it, yes, but to reverse and return to the situation we had at that time..., and I'm sure that the deputies who were at that time in this chamber would remember that there were great rebombs, because many times what is ugly was to collect these money in a way that was not very regulated – sometimes they collected it, kept it in a book the director of the center, or it was kept in a box, so there was more or less around here in Barcelona – and then it returned, more or less regularly, to the infants, because it wasn't very well regulated. And, in addition, in the years and one day they would get all the money at once, and that brought a lot of trouble. Including foster families who had joined these infants say: "Please rule this out, because, if not, what we do is that these infants, one day and a year, with all the capacity of the legislation in their favor, so it's buy a bike or it's understand what you like; okay? Therefore, this had to be regulated, and it was done. I already know that for you it is an important tempt, usual, therefore, the fact of speaking that they revert, that they derogate..., because they do not like it, it is a complaint that has not been regulated and made of the Law of Childhood, but after what has happened neither do they like it. And another law that they approved to promote their group, because it was approved in tripartite government, and you had something or something else to say. So... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes, tripartite, I speak; you too. And so, to what they said, now we have to change it completely, because it turns out that whoever ruled did not interpret it well. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Well, we'll leave it here, that it wasn't a matter of getting into a lot of controversy either, but, you know, like you guys got in a little bit too, I think it's also okay, so, say it, huh? The thing that would be good is that we've been able to put all these questions, which are important, huh? , of the type of pension or benefit, of which the rep, who does not rep, for how long... It is a pioneering and referent program, but better; therefore, let us try to improve it. But, apart from accepting and wanting to make this debate – and we will be very happy to go in there, because the councilwoman herself has said that all these issues are very good that we can improve them – to which we would also be very attentive is what is happening in Madrid, because we are talking about some performance that the box and the key are in Madrid. Today, in the Senate, there was a proposal to improve one of these benefits, which is child benefit, and what was proposed was to increase the amount, so that once you and many of you ask and demand as a priority here, in this chamber, of the PEUC, and that we also have in question. So we'll be very careful to see what's going on there. Today the PP, as it was to be hoped, voted against it, and therefore the Senate has not prospered; the other groups voted in favour of it. But what's more important is not what happens to the Senate, but what could happen to the Congress. For now, it is vetoed; it is not allowed to debate at the Congress. But if we go in there, we'll be very careful, because here there are groups asking for this, so it's impenetrable on the part of the government that doesn't have the box. So, let's see what they ask the government that it does have the box; that they are not among the government, but they do have the ability to inflate it, very directly. And it'll be fine, because I'm sure – I'm sure – that only if we're able to make a real debate, coherent and honest are able to guarantee successfully that we give every child the opportunity they deserve. And, therefore, what we demand is that we continue to deserve the responsibility we have. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-30-2601.259.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As there is no mention presented, the proposed law amending the seven additional provision of Law 14/2010, the rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence, continues its processing. [[Greetings.]] They proposed an alteration of the order of the day, so that the motion subsequent to the inquiry to the government on agricultural policies, branches and forests is postponed to the proper Ple. For this reason, ask the chamber if it is in conformity with what is laid down in Article 81.3 of the Rules it is possible to agree to this proposal to alter the agenda by consent. (Pause.) All right, then. The order of the day, therefore, is modified in this sense. They suspect the session until tomorrow morning, at nine. Thank you all very much. [[Correction note]] Hortènsia Grau Juan ( CSP ) communicates the following correction: On the DSPC-P 44 of 10 November 2016, on page 18, thirty-three line: It is said in front of a path to say in front of a DIA.
