ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.1.0	The session begins. Good morning. Before I enter the order of the day I must inform you that the past 13th of generation, unfortunately, a woman died as a result of male violence in Vila-seca. According to the official data of the Department of Interior and the Catalan Institute of Donations, it is the first fatal victim of the year for male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime and express my most sincere condolences to your family members. So, I repeat Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women. I would like to greet the new Members who are joining us today. They are the lords Martín Eusebio Barra López, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans ; Mireia Vehí Cantenys ; Joan Garriga and Quadres ; Mireia Boya Busquet, of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Cree Constituent, and Fabián Mohedano and Morales, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si. [[Member's compatibility status]] The first point on the agenda is the compatibility situation of Members. As the Opinion of the Committee on the Status of Deputies is included in the plenary's file, I would like to point out that its reading has been completed. Before I went on, a group asked me to intervene. In this sense, the honourable Member Joan Josep Nuet, of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group, has the word Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Our group will vote in favour of the committee's opinion on the subject, but we would like to speak briefly to explain the subject of our vote and why we can say that we believe that in this Parliament Parliament there is a challenge, namely to raise the ethical commitment of Members and Members. Therefore, we will present initiatives at the length of the parliamentary term in the line that the compatibility that Members and Members must demonstrate in order to be, precisely, Members and Members, can be more demanding, can be better and, therefore, we will work in the line that, in some way, this issue is work in the Commission of the Status of Deputies or in other committees of the Parliament of Catalonia. We wanted this to be on the record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.3.0	The honourable Member, why did you ask me for the word? [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm sorry, we don't feel it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.4.0	It's for, too, to comment on this point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.5.0	Fifteen seconds, too, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.6.0	Yeah, get out of here, quick. Yesterday there was the Committee on the Status of Deputies and ourselves, also from the Socialist Group, to comment on the lack of legislation regarding incompatibilities and, above all, the conflict of interests between Members, public and private activities of Members. We don't have an election law, and that means we don't have a rule to apply to Members of this chamber. We seem to have to move forward on this line. We, too, have already told the committee, and we also want to present initiatives to try, therefore, to respond to what the citizenry asks us, which is more transparent and more ethical in relation to the public and private activities of Members and Members. Thank you. [[Maria José García Cuevas asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.7.0	Illustrious Member of Parliament, Mrs García Cuevas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.8.0	Thank you, President. To make it clear in the record that, in fact, progress in the development of a code of ethics for Members of Parliament was something that was commented on yesterday in the Committee on the Statute of Deputies with the committee's lawyer, who advanced that there was already a draft. And it was a proposal that was unanimously seen with good eyes by all the parliamentary groups, so it would be an initiative that would be launched with the agreement and approval of all the parliamentary groups. Thank you, President. [[José María Espejo-Saavedra Conesa asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.9.0	The illustrious Lord José María Espejo also wants to intervene.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.10.0	Yes, thank you, President. And very briefly, too, as a member with representation of Ciutadans, of the Commission of the State of the Deputies, and in the same sense that the rest of the members of the parliamentary groups have intervened, therefore, to express our agreement, also, in the line that we expressed yesterday to the Commission that it should approve this code that regulated the issue, above all, of the incompatibilities of the Members, because we do not have this approved legislation, there is no electoral law and there are loopholes that we cannot analyse as agreed by the Commission of the State of the Deputies and, therefore, to give support to what the rest of the spokesman said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.11.0	Well, let's move on, then, to the vote. Is the opinion approved by consent? [[Pause.]] As there was no objection, the opinion was adopted. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the Bureau of the Permanent Council (art. 73.3 of the Rules of Procedure)]] Let's get to the next point of the order of the day. The second point of the order of the day is the communication to the Plenary of the composition of the Bureau of the Permanent Council. In accordance with Rule 73.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the Bureau of the Permanent Chamber must be communicated to the plenary. As the composition is included in the Ple's file, which has already been distributed to all Members, I therefore urge them to complete their reading. Complimentary so what establishes Article 73.3 of the Rules, let's now move to the next point of the order of the day. [[Appointment of the MPs acting for the 2016 budgetary period]] [[231-00001/11]] The third item on the agenda is the appointment of the MPs for the 2016 budgetary period. I pray the First Secretary, Honourable Anna Simó, that I give reading to the Enlarged Bureau Agreement proposed by the Members of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.12.0	« The Enlarged Bureau, at its session held on 15 January 2016, in accordance with Rule 37.5 of the Rules of Procedure, granted the Plenary the designation of Roger Torrent and Ramió, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Sí ; of Antonio Espinosa Cerrato, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, and of Jordi Terrades and Santacreu, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as well as of MPs acting for the budgetary period of 2016.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.13.0	Thank you. Is this proposal approved for consent? [[Pause.]] Speakers are appointed for the 2016 budgetary period: Roger Torrent i Ramió, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Sí; Antonio Espinosa Cerrato, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, and Jordi Terrades i Santacreu, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Comparison of the President of the Generality to account for the structure and composition of the Government]] [[350-00001/11]] The fourth point of the order of the day is the appearance of the President of the Generality before the Parliament to account for the structure and composition of the Government. In accordance with Rule 169 of the Rules of Procedure, and insofar as the President of the Generality has requested to appear before the House of Commons to account for the structure and composition of the Government, the President of the Generality, very honourable Mr Carles Puigdemont and Mr Casamajó, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.14.0	Very good morning, very honourable President of Parliament. Vice-President, Councillors and Councillors, Members and Members, a special greeting, also, to those Members and Members who are incorporated for the first time or re-incorporated in this chamber and in this beginning of parliamentary term. Indeed, as the President of Parliament has announced, I have asked, as is the rule, to compare before all of you to account for the structure and composition of the Government. This is a precept marked for the Law of the Presidency and the Government of the Generality, but, also, it is essential that you do so at the beginning of the legislature to explain to them what are, from the outset, the criteria, and then, the detail of each of the areas, departments, their composition, their functions, so that they can have a precise knowledge of the institution that allows them to make the task that the citizens have entrusted to them, of control, of follow-up, of request for explanations from the Government. In the first place, they would like to subrate two general criteria, two global reflections that mark the decision to set up the government that I will always present to them. This is indeed a government to make all the work of this legislature possible, foreseen in a year and a half. And this is a government that, basically, will work with two big carpets. The first folder has to do with the management, the defense of the current skills to maintain the services of the citizens and the ability of the maximum response to the effects that the crisis has on the people, on the enterprises, on the joint of the country. It is to say that no one has any doubt that we will enjoy until the last coma, the last point of all the competitions we still have. Until the last letter of each jurisdiction, this government, this government will be there to defend the citizens, the ability to respond to the effects that the crisis has on its spaces. The second folder, of course, is because this is the nuclear charge that the citizenry does to us from the elections of 27 September, setting up a chamber that, at the parliamentary level, responds to that charge and the government will try to answer to this majority of the chamber, is planning, designing and executing all the work, all the work of the process that must place us at the gates of the new state. A state that we want independent, in the form of a republic, so that you are serving the progress of people of all origins, of all conditions, of all opinions, and that you can give answer or follow up on your vital itinerary, much better than you have ever done, neither the day before nor the previous ones, and, of course, much better than you can never do, nor the day before, more escaped and more asphyxiated. Second great reflection that explains the reasons for which we have decided to make the government that I will present to them. This is a renewed government, as we can prove, it is a reordered government, and it is a modern government, designed to compliment, effectively and measurable results. The government program, which I already presented in my appearance at the investiture session and which I repeat once more, because I never lost this reference thread, is a direct consequence of the results of September 27th, that is, it is a direct consequence of what citizenship wants – or a large part of the citizenry – expressed in the ballot box and which has configured the Parliament that all of you know. This is a government that I have asked for a permanent dialogue, a permanent dialogue with all parliamentary groups, without exception. It is true, and we trust it, and this allows us to get ahead of the legislature, that we have an agreement that guarantees parliamentary stability with the UPC, but it is also true that in any case we do not and do not limit ourselves to reaching as many agreements as possible with all the groups of this chamber, because I am convinced, as I said at the investiture session, that in many of the itineraries that we will propose to you, in many, you will agree. And if we agree, for us absolutely there will not be the fact that we can reach broad agreements for the benefit of the city, which is why, in fact, we are here. Therefore, I will reiterate what is the contextualization, the structure and composition of the government that today I present to you with the priorities exposed a few days ago and that I would now like to recall. In the first place, move forward in building a country that is fairer, fairer, healthier, safer and more worshipable. Secondly, consolidate the country's economic recovery and achieve that this is more employment, that this occupation is more stable and that this occupation is of better quality. Thirdly, to make Catalonia a country of high democratic quality, a reference in transparency and participation. And, in fourth place – and not later, obviously – with regard to the Catalan construction process we want, to complete the process in the participatory, civic and associative phase, to design definitively the state structures and their setting up; to process and promote the law projects related to all this, and to complete the internationalization of the building process and constitution of the independent Catalan State. I'm getting this because they'll understand after the composition of the government responds exactly to this. Surely many of you will already express it in your turn: they will not agree or do it in any other way, and they will accept every possible way, but this is ours. And it's ours not in a whimsical way, it's ours because it responds to the way we think it's more solvent to be able to respond to the burden made by a large part of these citizens and, above all, the Plate of Government that I introduced to them and that this Parliament approved the other day. The deployment of these priorities, therefore, and of the public policies that stand out in each of them, and which I explained to the investiture debate, is the burden that this Government has, is the burden that I have reiterated to the Councillors and Councillors; therefore, it is clear that this structure is no other structure than that referring to the organizational and instrumental needs that fall in order to complete all this mandate. I would like to point out to them, in principle, that all government action will be isolated for three large areas that respond precisely to the three great priorities of the government. A first area where economic policy is intertwined with occupation, territorial development and all that makes reference to the impulse of the product fabric. And to this area we give the rank of vice-president, which proves – we want to prove it and the facts will certify it – the importance we give to policies to make possible the economic recovery and growth of the country. A second area in which all social policies, lines of action necessary to develop the welfare state and make possible this country, as we say, that we want, more cohesive, solid, cult and healthy. And a third area where strategies are coordinated in terms of transparency, external projection, security, justice and governance. Okay. Beyond this first organizational level, which has some functions – as it does not escape – to coordinate better and strengthen coordination and reconciliation between areas, each of which has a large share of competences, there is obviously the departmental structure of the Government that I, as I continue to do, take the steps to list. The departments will be the following: the Department of the Presidency; Vice-President and Economy and History; External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency; Governance, Public Administration and Housing; Education; Health; Interior; Territories and Sustainability; Culture; Justice; Work; Social Affairs and Families; Business and Knowledge; and Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food. I'll tell you some of the major changes that you can prove, you'll be able to observe with respect to the previous government and that I would like to highlight – they're not the only ones, but they are the ones that I want to tell you. The rank, as I said, of vice-presidency, donated to the Department of Economy and History, according to what previews the Law 13/2008, of 5 November, of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government; the creation of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Institutional Relations and Transparency, and the name changes, fruit of the competitive modifications, correspondents to the departments of: Treball, Afers Socials and Families ; Governance, Public Administrations and Habitats ; Enterprise and Knowledge and Economics and History. I would like to insist that these competitive changes, like the combination of the government's structure, respond strictly to the criteria of effectiveness in government action and, therefore, to the criteria of effectiveness in the compliment of the government platform, in the compliment of our commitment in serving the country. This brings together the skills of occupation and social policies, in order to respond to the needs of people from the perspective of social protection and employability. I'm sure there's been a debate about this, sure, happy to have it, but that's our criteria. And this is a criterion that we can explain with a lot of clarity and with a lot of strength because we are convinced that in the measurement work of the government's activity – and therefore, in this sense – this is an effect, let's say, more multiplying the joint efforts of the government than not another perfectly legitimate structure, but this is ours. The housing skills are passed on to the Department of Governance, as you know, because these are closely linked to the action of local administrations: housing emergence, all housing crises are inseparable from the role of the joints, which have the capacity to respond, which also have the capacity to monitor other administrations and other actions in order to be able to move in the fastest, most effective and concrete way a response to a need. And, therefore, it seemed to us that it was not only a question of effectiveness, but of speeches; of discourses of being able to situate all the housing skills in the Department of Governance that is, in fact, much more closely linked to the local administration. The skills of business and knowledge also come together – and it seems to me that it's almost..., I won't say idle, but it's pretty obvious why this is so, isn't it? We know that we have a challenge in which it is the transfer of knowledge from universities to the productive sectors: what better way to do this by working together these skills! Well, these are some examples. And now I would like to go over in more detail the highlights of each department for what it does to its structure and for what it does to its functions. I do not intend to explain who the priorities of the departments are, I do not intend to do so, because this will already be the object of appearances, which, as is required, will take them to term by the Vice-President, the advisers and the advisers in the next few days; and, in fact, by the end of this session, as I did yesterday in charge of the government session, they will enter their request to appear because they can compare to the respective parliamentary commissions, which have already seen also that the design of parliamentary commissions we believe will greatly facilitate the follow-up work of the leaders of the different departments, so that, in a short term – in a very short term – each of the heads of the department may appear, effectively explain the priorities. Therefore, I will not be entertained and I am convinced that, in the next few weeks, this debate will be resolved. Yes, I would, too, like to point out some of the fundamental challenges we have in every area, because they lie, I insist, the elements that have had to create the structure that follows them all. For what he does to the Presidency Department, to the political leadership band of the Government that he assumes throughout the national process, attributions are assumed... – and this is an old claim and, moreover, it is a compliment of the Law of Equality approved for this Parliament –, attributions in the matter of women's policy and in the matter of information society. This later change, that of the information society, responds to the desire to boost the digital agenda; the digital agenda for the whole of the Catalan society to avoid, as has already been said many times, the social brets, in a world that accelerates very quickly and that is not enough to have and make decisions at a certain time of foundation, but that is to be loving permanently and that is to be constantly loving that the accelerated evolutions of this world do not generate knowledgeal or excessively large brets that are difficult to save. These impulses are much more effective when they end up in cross-cutting departments, as is the case with the Presidency – so you feel that they do –; as has already been done, for example, with the Support Platform for the Third Social Sector, the Comprehensive Platform for the Care of Mentally Disrupted and Addictional Persons, the Interdepartmental Social and Health Care and Interaction Platform, or the Permanent Social Dialogue Accord. The Department of Economics and History, with the rank of Vice-President, assumes functions such as the direction of the territorial delegations, the chairing of the technical council or the coordination of a commission in the field of the national transition. In this band, among the functions that are their own, I also want to highlight the development of their own history, the elaboration of the assumptions, which must make it possible to live and develop public services, in a practical way, those that they have to see with the state of well-being. The Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency is created – it is created –, it is of new creation, to give a greater boost to two fields: one, that of external matters, so as to project Catalonia into the world and explain, in the line of what I have already said in my possession, the need to explain – as better and as better as better people – the process that is living in our country; and, the other, to make possible the application of the Law of Transparency, approved last legislature, in the conjunction of the Catalan administrations, as an essential element of good governance and democratic quality. The Department of Governance, Public Administrations and Habitatge incorporates, as I said before, housing policies with the challenge of ensuring that no family is prevented from having a decent habitat. In the framework of the rest of the competitions of this department, I would like to emphasize, also in the will– and, obviously, the need– to work to approve a new Catalan electoral law that incorporates, among other things, electronic voting. The Department of Education has, as they see, the structure and organization necessary to advance towards a Catalan educational system that is of European reference..., through the development of the Law of Education of Catalonia, in order to guarantee equal opportunities, focusing on the most vulnerable children and young people and developing the Law of Vocational Training, approved, also, the past legislature, which are some of the priorities of this department. The Department of Health has the challenge of continuing to ensure the quality of health care to the citizen through an open dialogue with the sector, it has to define its priorities with commitments such as the reduction of waiting lists or the integration of health care and social care into the line already started in the past few years. The Department of Interior does not, in this case, vary substantially its attributions, but it must continue to strive to ensure the security of all people in the territory of Catalonia, and so, at these times – as we know and I also wanted to outsource it in my investment speech – to respond to what today represents the great threat of Gihadist terrorism. The Department of Lands and Sustainability has as a big challenge, with the great difficulties that the current competition mark entails, but, tanmateix, has the great challenge of working to solve the endemic problem of Rodalias, which seems to me to have already greeted the first days of Councillor Rull, as it greeted the last days of Councillor Vila. It is an endemic problem that daily affects a large number of people in this country, and affects them in their basic rights: mobility, work, their compatibility of working life with family life. Also, in the area of competence of this department, environmental policy stands out, where we must make an effort to equate ourselves with the more advanced countries of our environment. I therefore reiterate the commitment to enter into this Parliament, as soon as possible, the law of climate change, so that it is approved as one of the priorities to be marked by the agenda of this Government and of successive governments. The Department of Culture has the necessary structure to develop the functions that will make it possible for culture to be a strategic element of the future: of the future of the country, of the future and also of the future state; so that, in order to strengthen the role of the Catalan language as an element of social cohesion, and the protection of the Arane in all that pertains to it, it will take long to strengthen our own structures through the processing of laws such as cultural VAT, sponsorship or intellectual property, which we know very well the need that we have, and the delay that we have in being able to have essential tools because culture plays this role that we want in any society and that we want, even more, in a country that has, clearly, in its cultural identity. The Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families, as I have already designated before, combines the functions related to employment and social benefits, so that it gives a follow-up and sense of responsibility at the time of meeting the challenges of the occupation and makes possible an effective response to the different situations that a person may experience in the long run of his or her working life. Obviously, also, respond to the challenge of the poor and give support to families in a situation of vulnerability in the current competitive state, as well as developing one of the fundamental structures for the future state, such as social security. It's one of the challenges, actually, that they have in this area. The Department of Enterprise and Knowledge, as I have already indicated, is also organizationally configured to intensify the transfer of knowledge and the results of university research to the productive economy. In the band, the structure of the department must be at the service of the follow-up of all the initiatives that generate productive activity in the country, convinced that without this productive activity it is very difficult, not to say impossible, to be able to attend to the social agenda that this Government wants to promote in a decisive and accelerated way. And finally, the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food has to respond to the challenge of helping the visibility of farms and farms, fisheries and forestry companies, so that the modernization of the sector can be made possible. The structure of the government, therefore, responds to all this. The detail of the general secretariats, directorates-generals, bodies that fall within it, responds to this task that we have rejected, this mandate also rejected for Parliament with the approval of the Board of Governors in the investiture session, so that it can last as long as possible and as quickly as possible; be in the service of a government program, therefore, and, therefore, be in the service of certain policies, policies that, I insist once more, respond to the willingness to build this country more properly, more justly, more balanced, more free, with the conviction that we have a clear and undisputed democratic mandate, that emerges from the ballots and that allows us to provide a full path to power, and ultimately to invest in it. Certainly – and I repeat one more time – this is what we want to do with all the guarantees, without passing in false, without improvisations, because the final objective, which is felt by the government's action, the government's program, the government's structure, is people and their well-being. And the way the parliamentary group that supports the government, together for the yes, and the way other groups in the chamber accompany us in this proposal, is to be able to serve better people and their welfare. That's why we want this government to function effectively, to solve the problems, that you can follow it, that you can control it, as it could not be in any other way, that you can ask for expansion of the information that you need, but that you feel close to it, as we expect it to feel close to the citizens, especially those who suffer the most, those who expect from all governments, all without exception, and from Catalonia in the first place, to feel it very clean, very clean in their sufferings, in their yearnings, in their aspirations, and that they know that this government will not spare any of the efforts that it has to give it a response. Thank you very much. I'll be loving your contributions. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.15.0	As there is a parliamentary group that has asked me, let's do a ten-minute recess. But, please, be extremely punctual.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.16.0	It's part of the session. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak for a maximum of two minutes. The word has the illustrious lady Inés Arrimadas on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.17.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, we would like to thank President Puigdemont for the presentation of his Government. It's true that there were no surprises. You had already spoken to the media about the redistribution of competitions, about the names of people, but I am grateful that you also made this presentation at the parliamentary level. We only have two minutes and we would like to make a general assessment of this government based on the information we have so far. It is obvious that we cannot make a valuation of the government's management, because it has not yet begun, but indeed of the designation, of the redistribution of competencies or of the names that have been made. First of all, to congratulate all the advisors and advisors who have just begun their work and this value we will do with all the personal and institutional respect that the Government of the Generality deserves us. Let's talk about the criteria that you seem to have sorted – either you or who decided the government has sorted – to start working on this new government of the Generality. We see one thing very clearly, and it is that the criteria for selecting the people who will be at the forefront of this government has, in many cases, not been their personal, professional, or political path, but that we see a clear priority that is the compromise of these people with independence. Indeed, a government that has as its priority the declaration of independence could not bring forward without the fact that the people who are at the head of the government are not completely compromised with this objective. I therefore believe that the criteria that have been used to select people, I insist, in many cases do not respond to their personal and political paths, but to their commitment to independence. I can't talk about all those people, but I think they've commented on the power of the communication media certain names that, obviously, I insist on, are not characteristic for their trajectory, but for their commitment. I only want to refer to a person, with all the affection he knows I have: to Mr. Comín. It is true that you..., your professional and political path is not characteristic to be an expert in the world of sanitation, but I must admit that you have determined statements that you have been able to make these days, I want to tell you that we share them. So, if you're still on this line, we can work together and be at his side to work to recover something that's very important to Catalans, which is to recover Catalonia's healthcare. But it is true that a government that imposes itself on itself a time-limit is not very normal to have as selection criteria people who need a learning path, because if you yourself say that you need only time-limits for this government, they recognize that a good part of these time-limits will be to learn, above all, from people who do not come from this world. But I already insist that congratulations and that many of our statements share them absolutely. And then, I think the name that's more... which was talked about more in the media, was the name of Mr. Junqueras, which isn't there yet. I don't think he's chosen himself as..., at the head of the Generality's finance department, a person who is not characterized either by his training or his management career in this matter, but I think the most important thing is that Mr. Junqueras is the new vice president of the government and has made statements about the type of proposing the paralysis of the Catalan economy for a week. Home, I think it's been a long time since this same person is at the head of the Department of Economics and History of the Generality of Catalonia. And also, I think what's most important is that I doubt much that Mr. Junqueras can hold the bargain with the Government of Spain. I believe that the person who is taking over this task right now must be a person who is very clear about negotiating with the Government of Spain, because, whether we like it or not, we in Catalonia have a huge difficulty in being able to access credit outside the Government of Spain, enormous, so much so that it is impossible, goes. And I think that if we were to depend on the FLA, if we were to depend on the negotiations with the Government of Spain, we would be pleased if the person you were in front of this department was a person who could be characterized by being open to the negotiations with the Government of Spain. I think it wasn't like that, and I just wanted to give you these two examples. But, in short, we consider that the criteria that have been chosen, that have been chosen to select the people, has not, many times, been their trajectory – in other, yes –, but their compromise with independence. Later, we would also like to talk about the redistribution of competencies that has taken place between the government. We believe that they do not respond to the needs of Catalans, but rather that they respond to a very clear priority that is independence. We want to talk – we only have two minutes – about two questions that I think are very, very significant. You have created a department for a competence that we don't have in Catalonia, that you don't have, that it's the outer athers; we don't have competitions in outer athers, we have competitions in outer athers. And I think there are two things that are different, that a president of the Generality, a government of the Generality should be very clear. And, therefore, we are concerned that you pose as a priority a competence that is not yours, because while there are competences that are ours and that are the priority of Catalans, such as the issue of occupation – that we will now talk about – you want to put the political focus, put resources in a competence that is obviously the only thing you want to try to support your cause. For the time being, it has to be recognized that they haven't been very successful in this international support search, and I'm saying that because if they have, I think we're going to die, we're going to die, and we're going to sleep every day with this information about the international support for the independence process. But it is obvious that you have not been able to hold it, and you have allocated enough resources and time in this task, but I see that, instead of giving it up, what you are doing is putting it another time as a priority, with more resources, with more skills and with more institutional structure in the future. But if we're talking about another competence that's ours, that's our priority for all Catalans, that's the occupation, we have to say that we're very concerned. We cannot agree with this redistribution that you have made, to seize the skills in occupation, the skills in active employment policies and to separate them from the world of enterprise and knowledge, and to place them in the same path as social welfare policies. He didn't feel it. Active occupation policies are a mechanism of wealth generation, of labor generation. And I'm worried because in this I do see a very continuous line respecting the previous government. I remember... I've had a lot, haven't I? But I remember a discussion with Mr. Puig in which he recognized from this Faristol that: "With the SOC what we will do..., – and I read his statement textually – "will be palliative measures. Training, follow-up, orientation are not practical measures, they are active measures of job creation and wealth, so we cannot agree that you fill the towel and say that active employment policies must be in the aid of social welfare. It is obvious that they must be integrated, it is obvious that they must be coordinated, but, I insist, one of the main competences of the Government of Catalonia is the active policies of occupation. It is a very important competition and it is a social need that I believe is the priority of Catalans. Therefore, we cannot agree that you, without having competence in external matters, set up a structure to pull it forward and set a priority and announcement that you would open up more embassies, and a competence that is indeed ours, that we do have it, that it is indeed necessary, you want, therefore, to let go of the band or to consider it as a measure of social welfare. I think it's a good show of your priorities, we could talk about many more things, I think we'll have occasion during control sessions and commission sessions, but we do want to talk about the consequences that we consider this functional distribution, that this selection of advisors and advisors can have for Catalans. So much good is wrong – so much good is wrong – and you end up feeling the best government of the Government of Catalonia, but, for the information we have, for the declaration of intentions that you have made, allow us to doubt, and much, of that. I believe it is clear that the priority of this government is not the social needs or the needs of all Catalans, it is independence. I believe that this Government cannot represent all Catalans, not just the social majority of Catalans who do not want independence, but will only be represented on an important part, but not the majority, of Catalonia, and I believe, moreover, that this Government will not have as priority the dialogue with opposition and negotiation with the Government of Spain, because you have already renounced it, they have already said that you do not want to do anything more with the Government of Spain. I think this will have consequences for the Generality. And I'm saying it more – and I'm so wrong – but if you pull through the full road you've explained to independence, you can probably be the first government of the Generality to put in danger the self-governance of Catalans. So good we are wrong, but the information we have, with the priorities that you have explained, I think we have this risk, and a lot. For the task of opposition, of building, of talking about occupation, of talking about sanitation, of talking about infrastructure, we will be here; but obviously, to put into danger all that so much time and effort has cost us, we will be in front. Thank you very much, Madam President, Mr President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.18.0	Illustrious Mr Miquel Iceta, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.19.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very honourable Mr President, we would like to thank you for your explanations of the configuration and composition of the Government, on which we would like to make some considerations. You know that the conviction assigns the convenience of setting aside a hundred days of thanks to our government, but you will understand that in this case we will only be able to hold it for thirty-seven days, since one hundred days correspond to a four-year and thirty-seven-day term, it is those which correspond to an approximate half-day term, which is what you seem to compromise to accomplish. In any case, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate all the Councillors and Councillors of the new Government, while wishing them the utmost certainty in defending the interests of the citizenry. And as I like, as you know, always underlining the positive aspects, I want to expressly thank you for your willingness to maintain a fluid relationship with all the groups in the chamber to try to agree on those themes that unite us, which I hope will continue many. But before entering into considerations of the composition and configuration of the Government, I would like to make it possible for it to have immediate response instruments and acclaim to avoid doubts and to avoid controversies that may affect the good image of the Government and the Presidency. I say this because it provides a quick answer on issues such as your own personal résumé, your business relationship with the new director of Catalunya Radio, or the rebuffed ingenious subsidies for a press release for you and whose wife is an editor. Given that there has not been any irregularity in these questions, it is appropriate to be as quick as possible in the explanations that follow, in order to avoid doubts about respect and to allow all of us to focus on the questions that really matter. Mr President, our group sincerely believes that you have had little to do with the configuration and composition of the government you are chairing. Certainly, you did not sign the nominations, thus showing your agreement, but the structure and the names came from well before your own candidacy for the presidency – things have gone as they have gone – and they may respond more to the internal balances of Junts for the Yes than to a global view of the needs of government – or at least so we see. Perhaps we would have liked to be able to greet the government as the government of President Puigdemont, but we do not think it is. But in any case, we encourage you to exercise your authority fully, functions and prerogatives, running away as from the plague of evil that assembles you to a protected presidency. About the configuration of the Government, we would like to make four comments. The first is our concern for the accumulation of Tasks related to Work, Afer Socials and Families, which, without undermining in absolute terms the capacity of the new Councillor, constitute a load bundle concentrated in a single department of well-complex management. The second comment is the peculiar architecture of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, and Interior, which may be very responsive to the profile of its holder and to some internal balances known before that you were neither so single candidate, but which forces, from our point of view a mass, the criteria of coherence in the conformation of the different departments. This, moreover, has caused, I believe, some imbalances in relation to the old departments of Presidency and Governance. But, finally, the government has to organize itself as the president of the country, doesn't it? The third comment is our disconformity before the absence of a specific department dedicated to the environment, sustainability and the fight against climate change. We believe that we are not just ourselves to think about it, but that there have been many voices from the environmental sectors of the country that have highlighted this, in our judgment, lack. The fourth comment is the doubts raised by us to situate the habitating skills in the Department of Governance. You may also see with this attempt to rebalance the functions of this department with the creation of a department that carries the themes of institutional relationships. On the composition of the government, and from the very highest respect for people, we find that there is a lack of more public management experience in crucial departments, which, as the opposition leader has highlighted, is still more relevant if we think that the legislature will be short. We are not, we would say, to come and see what is there, but to put ourselves to work from the first moment. We have also found that we lack a greater effort to match, as well as to recognize the names of women who are part of the government, which is greater than on other occasions. But all the time, the department's secretary-general list is very disappointing. We believe that, having passed the Law of Parity in the previous legislature... we would have wished for a more ambitious compromise in this land. Mr President, we also want to make him some general political comments that I think fit well into today's debate. Our group remains largely unsecured, or sufficiently secured, the stability of this government, and we believe that, for example, the uncertainty about the presentation of the assumptions for 2016 or the extension of the previous ones has much to do with this. We are concerned that it is widely said at the same time that the social emergency plan depends on the approval of the premise and that perhaps there will be no new presumption. Perhaps the monogram ple on the social situation will clarify a question that affects many Catalan families well. Certainly, the duration of his government is already an object of speculation. From the maximum of _message we move to "you will see. Certainly, I must say, we like it better than a government with a date of expiry so – so – soon. You have to recognize, Mr President, that the full route of your government, if it is maintained, makes it extremely difficult to agree on specific variable geometry that may be needed faster than we all think. Because over this legislature they plan, Mr. President, from our point of view, the most inconclusive. First, if it lasts as little as they say; then, if it is only focused on the name of the process; then, if it results so little from our point of view, as it did in the last five years; if this legislature intends to deal decisively and in the first place with the real problems of citizenship, which is from its words and which we want to recognize, appreciate and share; if this legislature, it has also been called upon by Inés Arrimadas..., it will be able to resume the institutional dialogue with the Government of Spain; if this legislature will have the parliamentary stability and internal cohesion necessary to face the challenges of the country and its people. Look, president, and I think I'm going to repeat it a lot later in the legislature, and we probably don't agree with that: 52 percent of Catalans didn't give their support to the independence parties, which, despite this, and legitimately, have the majority of parliament and the responsibility to govern. We won't get tired of remembering it. Nor will we tire of saying that no one has the right to place out of the law the Catalan institutions, which are all of them. As you again give guarantees, and we have no reason to doubt your word, we give in fact that this will not be. But in any case we would announce that we would severely judge your actions if you intend to forget these basic questions. I have to say to him: we do not want a country in which there is discrimination for ideas or in which the staff member of the civil service depends on his position in accordance with the procedure. And perhaps someone will say to me: "What a beast you say! Well, I want to raise a case that is produced, that is a motion presented in an assembly that says that since such a person has always voted against Artur Mas..., therefore he proposes that he agree that "this municipal plenary agree not to be concerned in the future of the 50_per_cent of the sum of this official, nor of any other official or public worker attached or to develop tasks for the assembly that is manifested publicly and politically against the process of independence of Catalonia. I, as I am convinced, Mr President, that you do not share in absolute terms this settlement, nor do you ask it, in short, that it is pronounced. But I think when there are cases like these, what we all have to do is react very zealously to avoid denigrating spectacles from the democratic point of view. And speaking of the process, Mr President, we want to ask you: how did you feel about embarking on a process are you trying to draw up a constitution of the Catalan Republic when this is not the will of the majority of citizens? Is it that we think of calling them back to vote for their life to referendum a constitution in a process without legal validity? Will we repeat a consultation similar to that of 9 November 2014, but now under the pretext of a so-called Catalan constitution? From our point of view, Mr President, and we recognize the lawfulness of the discrepancy, it would be much better for us to begin to admit the inviability of a unilateral and illegal process. That's why we don't want to participate in the ceremony of confusion. The failure of the Commission of Study on the Right to Decide of the previous legislature, which was presided over by the same President of Parliament, should serve us all in order not to repeat mistakes. The record, for the many Members and Members of this House, that it was a piece of paper and a board of study that had to assume the centre of gravity of the previous legislature and finally it was not even able to draw conclusions that might have been discussed and approved eventually in the House of Commons. It's over, Mr. President. His first passes, the first passes of his presidency, do not seem to point to an acceleration of the process, but sooner, and you have referred on various occasions, to a more cautious, more thought-provoked, more secure action. If time confirms this impression, we sincerely believe that the country will appreciate it, and you will be able to count on the loyal collaboration of our group, a socialist and Catalan opposition group, but which has an unequivocal vocation of government. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.20.0	The word has the illustrious Lord Lluís Rabell, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.21.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Many honourable members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, well, it's an important moment, the presentation of the Government, and in a somewhat perplexed and nuanced way the investment debate that we had a few days ago. And that is for many reasons, but we would like to highlight one that is absolutely appropriate in our opinion, and it is the situation of social emergence that our country has seen, with its very hard, very deep petja, that has been in years of crisis and austerity policies. These days we have witnessed the publication of some studies that should reflect on us and that this room, sense of doubt, cannot ignore; studies on the evolution of returns to the city of Barcelona or Oxfam's recent studies on the situation of poverty, which confirm that at the end of the year they already give us the reports of Insocat or the same annual study that the Workers' Commissions do on inequality and poverty in Catalonia. Look, in our capital, no one can ignore it, more than a third of the population living with low or very low yields, and the difference in life expectancy between the richest and poorest barrels, attributable, attributable, attributable difference, to social determinants, already falls back about eleven years. The middle classes, both in the capital and in the rest of the country, are impoverished, and the inequalities become as chronic as the 29_per_cent of the population of Catalonia – the 29_per_cent – lives at risk of poverty or is already immersed. They are in the first place victims– and this Government should be fully aware of them, I hope that this is the case – from this particular situation certain collections are particularly affected: in the first place, the one we call single-parent families, and that it would be more appropriate to call them mono-marentals, because they are often, or almost always, in the name of women; infants; long-lived, long-lived; immigrant collections... Yesterday we had a chance to get back to the collection of Papers for Tothom, which made clear to us the tremendous situation in which many people find themselves in a situation of irregularity overcome. And to say that the combination of the Foreign Law and electoral reforms has had devastating effects on the broad sectors of our society. But it also means that they are affected, and every time more, workers with insufficient entrances to live decently. Due to this labour reform, encouraged by this, the temporality affects Catalonia today one_of_each_two new contracts of work that are signed, and in a sector that has traditionally been the most stable, the most guarantor of the point of view of the continuity of the contractual relations, like the industry, currently the medium duration of the new contracts is fifty-seven days. We want to subrate these data because this room needs to be aware of the situation with which it finds itself and how it should legislate and work. And we want to insist on one thing that is for us fit and is the nude of this legislature: we are fully convinced that we will not know any substantial democratic advances, not even to a Catalan republic, not only to nine significant quotas of self-government, without decisively addressing the problem of the social divide that the country is going through. On the soil of an atomized society, clave for everyday problems, we will hardly advance. And we are convinced that it is in the effort to redress this situation, in the bet for gender, social and environmental justice, that we are playing all the evolution of the country. Without cohesion, on a land adobed by suffering, it is all conjures so that you will shatter despair and not new strands of progress. From this point of view, let me talk about something that has been mentioned in other interventions that have preceded me: the subject of assumptions, and that we are very concerned about. There is a first question that must be asked, a doubt that can disappear: will this government propose new assumptions or plan to extend the accounts of 2015? The question seems to me to be a key one, because there are long-term assumptions, which are highlighted in the parties and priorities of the previous exercise, that would lead to obecism and continuity, and that, above all, at a time when we do not only need to implement social-emergency measures – I think that at this point the whole chamber agrees, in the same way that we are a lot to say that the measures announced are very short in relation to the situation that I have previously expressed – but at a time when we urgently need to shake the priorities, revert the detail and dynamics of privatization, that in the last period they have shunned and put into danger public services – health, education – as well as political and political, but tactical, political and economic infrastructure. In a word, it is a question of knowing – and this is the answer we expect to hear from the President, if not like the philosophy of the Government – whether this Government intends to register 'in the continuity of those who have preceded it, and to what extent, or whether, on the contrary, they intend to operate a turn for what it does to the retail policies that have led us to this situation. We need, think of ourselves, radically social assumptions and expansion. Sound conscious, huh? , from the difficulty we find ourselves in, at a time when Brussels seems to expect the configuration of the Spanish Government to pass it the note of a new batch of details that could exceed 10,000_million euros and that we fear that the Spanish Government might be tempted to centrifugal towards autonomy. Therefore, we believe that it will be necessary to negotiate with firmness the generality's deficit relief, in the service of its debt, to seek an increase in admissions, essentially through taxation, and to define priorities of expenditure. Beyond the student they represent, we also want to signify it here, there are measures of strong symbolic charge, and that in the formation of a government is to remind it. Some of you, of course, have already decided here in your parliament before and that they were incomplete, such as the view that the salaries of the councillors and other officials who depend on the government do not exceed the top of that which the councillors of the same Government of the Generality perceive. We can't get away with this effort, we think, and in the elaboration and debate around us assumptions are measured, we think, beyond rhetoric and speeches, we already know that the paper can handle almost everything, the government's compromise and its authentic tarann. Let me briefly talk about the composition of the government that's coming to us. Before this fabric, that of the Government which is announced, which is 'nsha's intention..., seems to me in many aspects to correspond more quickly to certain internal balances, to a distribution of areas of influence between the different political forces that make up, that give support to the Government, which, sometimes, to some logical and operational structure of the execution. And that's what we're afraid can cause distortions. It is surprising – he said – for example that Habitat is moving into the realm of Governance, while some of the phonative constraints, to which it would correspond..., which allow us to make habitat policies, such as, among others, the management of Incasòl, Romanian in other departments. But more questionable still seems to us – it has also been mentioned – the separation between business and occupation. Here the problem can be twofold, and it is that, beyond the judgments of intent that we do not want to do in this debate, it could open the door by force of things, this separation, to very negative dynamics. It could allow, in one band, to unlink the scope of companies from the problems of the world of work, of formation, of active policies of occupation, of industrial policies, of the promotion of new vectors of occupation, of the impulse of co-operativeism, and to end up – end up making – instead, of this scope of contact surface only permeable to the inputs of business lobbies. And that, from another band, you print, on the contrary, to the treatment of the occupation an assistance character. A risk that could be accentuated by an objective reality, and it is the design of a work macro-counsel, social welfare and families that, if we don't take care of it, can see'submerged under the allusion of all the social demands of the vulnerable collectivities of this country. In our opinion, the total negative results from the absence of an environmental advisory service. Allow me to highlight to what extent this lack may be a mistake when the international community at this time is discussing the devastating impacts of climate change; when the pollution indexes, for example, of the metropolitan area of Barcelona are perhaps the hardest public safety problem we are experiencing; when the transition to a new energy model is urgently needed, or when the management of the ends of the rivers is strategic for the future of the country. Thus the threat of the last directives of the PP government for doing to the whole of the Jew or the chronic overexploitation of the Ter is evident to us. We are convinced, and we would like to convey this thought, that social and environmental justice needs to move forward and that, at the same time, it is the foundation of sustainable development in this country. We are pleased, in this sense, therefore, that at the time of commissioning there are no singles working in the occupation and environment. Let us hope that from here the parliamentary groups can somehow compensate for these imbalances, which seem difficult to us, in the government's organizational chart. In the same way, we would like to welcome the incorporation into the Presidency of such an important institution as the Català de les Dones Institute, which effectively compliments the mandate of the Law of Equality, approved on July of last year; a mandate that still tries to reflect itself in all spheres, for which it makes to parity, and where important imbalances are observed, as it has indicated for what it does to the secretaries-general. We think that this incorporation should increase the Institute's operationality and allow it to face the number of problems linked, first of all, to the feminization of the poor and to give a central and cross-cutting character to gender policies, policies that are indisputable to be strengthened. And it reminds us of the loss of victims of male violence – the president was thinking about it at the beginning of this session – but she also made it clear, and I would like to say it here, that it was easy for us in society at any time of crisis to create a foundation of patriarchal superiority and of underprivilegedness towards women, and, without going any further, we were able to see recently through insults and mockery that different Members of this House have objected to. As he concluded, two words, an ambivalent feeling in relation to later positions. First, on one side, we were pleased to see published that the Generalitat withdraws as a particular accusation in different criminal cases against social activists. God, bad weather, that different forces, and among them Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, we claimed it, and it does not hold much case. Encany, we have witnessed the trial against students, such as Isma and Dani and other Poblenou's venous activists, detained from the general waves of 2012, and all of them – as I recall – have been absolved in judicial proceedings in which the Generalita asked, in some cases, higher penalties than those of the same prosecution. But, from another side – and I end up with this – with a sense of dissatisfaction before the lack of clear compromise for what it does to the fight against corruption. These very same legal services that have been so diligent at the time of pursuing people who defended the rights of the working class have been critically absent from all those scandals in which the general interest, the history or the public contract have been severely affected. We said it before: there are symbolic gestures that move...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.22.0	Mr. Rabell, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.23.0	... – yes, I finish, Madam President – symbolic gestures that convey clear messages to society. The Generality, we think, has missed its right and has lost a magnificent opportunity to affirm its will for democratic regeneration in rejecting the Parliament's mandate to characterise itself as harmed in court for the Noos case, as the alleged tax fraud affects the Catalan heritage. All folded is a sign calling us to the watch. And finally, tell them that, as Disraeli said, there can be no good government without a fearsome opposition. And here we are. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.24.0	The words of the illustrious Lord Xavier García Albiol, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Popular Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.25.0	President, Mr President, members of the Government, Members and Deputies... From the People's Party of Catalonia we would like to begin by saying that we have listened very carefully to his intervention, which he has exposed to us, and we have to say that we have detected that 90 per cent of his intervention has dedicated him, president, therefore, to reading, to passing a relationship, that he could have made any member of his cabinet, of the different councils and of the skills he has. And the short time remaining, therefore, he directed it exclusively to that 48_percent of Catalans who support the rupturist project that you and your government are willing to pull forward. He told us about generic concepts, Mr Puigdemont. He told us about more justice, a more educated society, economic recovery... but I have to tell him that for us he's all inadequate, because we haven't seen any kind of realization. We won't get into the debate, now, whether this is his, or not, government, or the former president's. Honestly, I have to tell him that's his problem. What I am convinced of from the People's Party is that we are ahead of a very mortgaged government for the interests and commitments of parties that form a part and a lot of conditionality – I repeat: and a lot of conditionality – for its members of the CUP. It is a government, Mr Puigdemont, Mr President, that remembers us a few pasts; it is a government that reminds us of the glorious age of the tripartite; it is a government that, like that of the Socialist Party, of the Initiative or of the Republican Left, made manifest to all Catalans that, when the quotas of party power are prioritized, the action of government ends up becoming an instrument serving a few, in the midst of the interests of all. In summary, a bad government. At present, when all of Europe is tending to reduce, the tendency is to simplify the political and administrative apparatus of governments, here in Catalonia, you decide to increase the number of councils. But this increase, above all, is motivated by the creation of political and administrative structures that do not obey the competitive reality, but that obey, exclusively, delusions and fantasies of their rulers. In short, a very inflated government, a government because and a government without management experience, especially in the economic area. And now I'll refer to you, Mr. Counselor, Mr. Junqueras. In a few moments when a certain recovery of activity is beginning to be seen, there are still thousands and thousands of men and women from Catalonia, of whom small businesses are going through very badly, putting a person like you at the head of the economic area, putting a person like you at the head of the economic area, of public finances, Mr. Junqueras, who has the great merit of having left the Sant Vicenç dels Horts Junction with the highest height of his region, it does not seem, honestly, that the best decision follows. Since it is certainly not, at the time of generating confidence, tend to advise a person who is able, in defense of an ideological project, to demand that the economy of the country be established, to defend an idea that is outside the state of law. We have listened, when you made the relationship of all the councils and some brushes of what you think hard at the end of a point of political action – of all insufficient, obviously –, as you have explained to us, therefore, that you want to create a series of government structures, but you did not tell us, as you did not say on the 10th day of generation, the day of your holding, as you think you are paying, if you think of obtaining economic resources, Mr President. With this government, Catalonia becomes the autonomous community with the most councils, thirteen, together with Andalusia, when the rest of the communities are the most in God. And, as I say, these governance structures, these state structures that you want to create, how will we pay for them? How will we give economic response to your delusions, Mr Puigdemont? Is he going to push our taxes? Will he create us taxes? In case you deny, who are the servants who will stop lending to pay for the new projects that have come from this legislature, such as, for example, the councillor of Mr Romeva? From his words it has been shown that all government action is subject to the construction of the independence process, and the main example of this is the advice of External Afers. We would have liked, Mr President, to hear about concrete proposals that refer to job creation policies, help from entrepreneurs and local authorities, the commitment to increase investment in public schools, the multi-year programme of investment in public schools and public hospitals in Catalonia. This is what really affects the vast majority of Catalans, Mr Puigdemont, and does not create a consultancy on a competence for which we have no type of responsibility. Mr. President... and here at this point I would like to ask you that it is neither your place nor the place of the Catalans in the ridiculous pre-world. During the last months and in the last years, the former Government of Catalonia, the former President of the Generality, organized an international offensive to give knowledge of the process of Catalonia. This strategy that the former Government of Catalonia had long term tended to respond to silence and indifference. We cannot afford the luxury, Mr. Puigdemont, of continuing to remain ridiculous and in evidence before everyone. For every new step of the separatist challenge, Catalonia's credibility in the world disappears; for every new announcement, confidence in the Catalan economy recedes. Do you not honestly believe that the time has come for the Government of Catalonia to cease to be one of the least-solvent administrations financed because of political instability? Isn't it worth rethinking all this? We also want to make a special impact on an aspect of the last few hours that has worried us, and very much. I worry about seeing..., we worry about how political instability is also moving to instability in the Catalan Police, to the Mossos d'Esquadra. From the People's Party of Catalonia, we believe that six cases of violent unrest have been withdrawn at the request of the radicals of the CUP. We are ashamed that those who destroy public and private property, urban terrorists, are the winners in the face of the rule of law. With this one [[relays]] ...to the one who's making the rhyme around here, I'm sure his house hasn't been able to get rid of these violent and delinquents. Or, if not, he wouldn't laugh so much. [[Greetings.]] Or, if not, he wouldn't laugh so much. So, ask for a little respect for the people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.26.0	Please – please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.27.0	...that he's a victim of these people. So, as the gods say, these terrorists... these urban terrorists... [[Funnel veils]] It hurts that they're...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.28.0	Please, respect the word order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.29.0	...these urban terrorists hurt us that they are the winners in the face of the rule of law. With this attitude of the Government of Catalonia, a message of total impunity is moving towards street violence. For this reason, in the next few hours, I announce that we are going to present a motion for a resolution here in Parliament, so that Parliament will instruct the Government of Catalonia not to withdraw us from the process against street terrorists. We would also like to point out, Mr Puigdemont, that you have started badly. It's obviously a bad start. There are unclear issues with regard to subsidies received by companies in which you, in one way or another, have participated; business partners who have been awarded public radio positions, and politicians who have been appointed advisors and who curiously were the ones who authorized the subsidies. This, Mr Puigdemont, is not a good way to start, if it is not able to make clear what is behind this whole situation. Citizens do not understand that an active politician who is involved in political formation receives subsidies from the same administration governed by his own political party. Mr President, we still do not know whether or not it complies with the law; what is certain is that all this is very little presentable. Also for this reason I announce that from the People's Party of Catalonia we will present a parliamentary initiative to make it incompatible that a society involved by an active politician or his or her spouse may receive subsidies from the Administration, or entities that are directly or indirectly linked. This proposal will be put forward in the next few hours. We believe it is the best guarantee that episodes like the ones we have just met will not be repeated again. Mr President, on the day of his takeover, while most Members congratulated him, I wished him that you had much interest in his management and his trajectory to the head of the Generality of Catalonia. Unfortunately, for what we have just seen until now the conjunction of Catalans, the reality and priorities of the majority of its government go one way and the real needs of the men and women of Catalonia, another. Let's hope I rectified in a way... very soon. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.30.0	The word has Mr. Joan Garriga, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.31.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. In the first place, therefore, a greeting to all the members of the chamber, for this premiere of this new Member. Let's hope they do it right; we'll do it right, go. On behalf of the CUP, we would like to make some reflections around the composition of the new Government, and, above all, a little to hear what our position will be respecting this new Government. From the outset, we would like to remind all members of the new Government that we have signed an agreement, a compromise, based on the 9-N declaration, to Parliament, with a social annex included. And as compañera Anna Gabriel said in the investiture plethora, the CUP - Constituent cry will be there, at the game. But the game for us has three names: independence, process and social rescue. For us, this, the president, will be the one in which we will do our main control action to his government action. We will be proactive for everything that refers to the process and criticisms for what it does to retail policies and anti-social policies. We don't want to, we can't keep up with these last five years of this institution. And a lot of companies have said it and we have repeated it in this Parliament, and today we are reaffirming ourselves in this: I punch closed to the clipboards, but it extends to the transition and to the breakup. We agree to divide a proposal that you made. We want concrete terms and actions to bring this agreement forward. We want your government, the government of Catalonia, to be no more an autonomous government, but precisely a pre-independence government and, therefore, to be able to end all that we have granted. This government will have to face the building of foundations on the basis of a new country; it will have to take away the autonomous mark, Catalonia from the retail, privatization and corruption. This supposes, President, that the interests of the popular classes prevail over the impositions of private interests and neoliberal policies of the European Union through the dictatorship of the deute. We expect the new government and parliament to be able to work immediately on the implementation of the break-up declaration, huh? And in the compliment, as you rightly said in this debate today, in the compliment of the mandate that has been attached to us. This, for us, for the CUP - Constituent Creed, is a government of Junts for the Yes, is not the sum of Democratic Convergence, Republican Left, more independent portfolios. We see it as a whole. And you guys have a full route. I hope you've respected him. It is in this sense that we hope that you will remain cross-cutting, that you represent the plurality of the country and that this is not a distribution, as I said, of portfolios. You have presented it to the country; therefore, you have shown it. Since the parliamentary minority, arithmetic has placed us in a position of high responsibility. And this high responsibility we think is to be faithful to all those ideas that we think will help to advance the construction of the Catalan Republic on new political and social bases; responsibility, on the other hand, and compromises that, in accordance with the commitments made and with the social demands, this government cannot escape. In front of us we have a huge challenge: we have to get out of the process, it has been said a thousand times; that it is joined to the construction of the Catalan Republic all that part of the people who still see it with regret. To advance on this path, on this goal, we will need to give unequivocal signals that social justice, transparency and democratic participation are premises present from now on, and above all in government action. Some of them are willing to pass us, to the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Constituent Creed, to be a temporary anomaly in the Parliament. We don't know. Our demands are common sense, we understand, before a society devastated by the harsh policies of austerity. We don't ask for the moon, which we ask for are emergency measures. In a country where many children are taking classes in barracks, we ask for subsidies to the elite schools that secrete by sex; in a country where public health may be questioned, we ask for privatisation processes to be completed; in a country where schools in Bressol have many problems, we ask for the help they have given; that they do R & I policies to the levels prior to retail policies. It is clear to us that these are not transformative measures, but are appropriate, necessary, urgent measures, which help to show who are the policies that we need to leave behind and who are, therefore, the ones that we need to empower to make way for the Catalan Republic of all. The fact of having a little institution and a little on the street makes us see that, beyond this Parliament, in this country, we think, there is a majority that needs a republic designed for people where social rights are precisely the ball of all politics. To this social majority we offer our parliamentary minority. The Government that today, President, presents us with elements of understanding and other indicators that concern us. We won't list them all now, and we'll be working, of course, from the compromise we've acquired, but also from the ideological position that initially commented on you. Beyond the actions of government, however, the Government's own image should be, it should reflect, for us, the photograph of political wills, and the photo that gives us this is not that of parity: five, of thirteen councils, are occupied by women; one, of thirteen secretaries-general; twenty-seven heads, other bodies, occupied by men, and thirteen, by women. We don't like the image; it's a man-dominated image. Our concept of stabilization has two potentials: the institutional one, yes, but our rehabilitation is also instrumental in asking for social movements on the street, which some call terrorists. Thus, parliamentary instability will be able to place it in the framework of the parliamentary game, in the agreements entered into, but also, and we do not forget, in the nine ways that the Government gives response to social wants and needs, and knows how to manage social conflicts..., these are expressed from the institutions, from the assemblies, from the entities, from the organised civil society, but also from the street. You, President, took the glove when we said that the best structure of the State is the people. And, therefore, we hope that the members of your government will remain faithful to this promise. The best fitness that we can offer, the best fitness that we think you can offer to society is, we think, to hear differently the interests of society; for us, to let go of the interests of a few and to give step to the interests of all. Things, of course, are bad. You will rule in a _marc of absence of political, economic and popular sovereignty; in a permanent _marc of denial and challenge of the laws approved to the Parliament of Catalonia; in a _marc of autonomy intervened economically; you gave to the principle, uh..., a _marc asphyxiated, with an offensive Spanish-speaking and laminator of the competitive marc; a_marc where it gives a repressive offensive and judicial and dynamic of crude war, not oblivion, media, economic and police. The 9-N declaration, the compromise and its annex details the measures to be implemented by its Government, intended to shield the affected phone rights by decisions of the institutions of the Spanish State. These and some others, we'd like to remember. The fight against the poor energy demands to overcome the prohibition of the Constitutional Court – we have an approved law, on 24/2015, of 29 July–; the coverage worthy of the emergence in housing, not without reallocation; the fact, without delay and without delay, of any kind of apartheid in sanitation and any form of privatization; the non-vigour and application of the Wert law, which gives rise to a suitable educational model based on the need to defend public, secular, co-educational, popular, inclusive and equitable schools; the compromise with municipalism, the bastion of political and social change, we think – and it is to be done against the LRSAL; the immediate solidarity of the president towards refugees, before the pitiful crisis, the political and social revolution, but also between the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political, the political. The vertebrate axes of the assumptions, for us, must be that of the financing of a social soc plan and the management of the debt. The CUP - Constituent Creed will be against retailing and job insecurity in the public sector and in full defense of transparency and for the articulation of mechanisms of control and taxation of government action. The transversal nature of environmentalist approaches, has been said here, to all and every one of the actions that the government will have to last in order to enhance sustainability, the defense of the natural and atmospheric environment in the action of government. And finally, we put ourselves at the side of all those who oppose the speculation of the territory and the malaise and privatizing of natural resources. For us, President, it is not a matter of rethinking to give momentum to projects like Barcelona World, but of shutting them down. This is not a letter to the King, it is a statement of intent before the new Government of the Government of Catalonia that you presented in this Parliament today. For us, and for this Parliament, we believe, is the time of the people, not the time of the markets: either it is government in favor of people or it is government in favor of capital. Returning a time of fraud to fertilizer, casino economies and speculative bankruptcy has remained a landscape, certainly devastated by the crisis, the crisis after the crisis, the increase of all social inequalities, precariousness as a dominant form of life, the frontal attack on all the social rights that so many years of struggle had cost to absolve, the dismantling of the public sector and the increase of social exclusion to historical levels. It's time to act and stop digging the hole, pounds, too, and above all, poverty and inequality. As Mr Julià de Jódar said, and finally, to the constitution of this Parliament, no government comes out of this Parliament will gain legitimacy unless it applies the necessary measures to address inequalities and exclusions. There can be no failure, President, to the political freedom of this people; there can be no failure to social justice for its people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.32.0	Illustrious lady Marta Rovira has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.33.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Members, Members, well, of the President's appearance here today we see, explaining the organization and structure of the Government, once more, that the result of the 27 September elections is a majority mandate in favour of independence. It is obvious to say again – and I think it can be said again – that Parliament has a majority of seats that allow this Government to be formed in order to complement this mandate, with this objective. The government that 'nsha' presented itself, we consider it the government of the mandate of 27 September; a government to make a trial constitute Catalonia, as has already been explained; a government to start making a new country; a democratic government that, as has been said, represents diversity, plurality, transversality and also the complexity of this mandate that we have of 27 September. From the President's appearance, it was clearly the will to put these institutions, the institutions of the Government, to make them available to this democratic and legal mandate that we have at our hands. And that, Mr. Iceta, is not in doubt, it will be divided into months, it will be divided into months because that is what the democratic mandate says, and so the electoral programme says. And, in any case, this government is sure that it is compromising – because it has also been said – to explain and be very transparent with the schedule of this divide, and on that which they rely on us or on that which will not end up dependent on us. Therefore, there is no doubt here that the compromise acquired is this. As the President explained, since his first decision to set up this Government – since, in fact, yesterday – the Government of the Generalitat has taken sovereign action to deploy this action, this mandate that we have to set up Catalonia in a state. How'd you do that? It did it in the form of a structure; it did it in the form of an organization. It has been explained that there will not be great reforms, it has been seen in the decrees that there has not been great structural reforms, in divided terms, there is not a plan to reform the government but to take over the government, the departments, and adapt them to the democratic mandate that we have. For this – for this – the explanation of the contents of some of the departments that have presented themselves today. For example, the Department of Economy is converted into the Department of Heritage, with the will and with the compromise and with the conviction to deploy the public library, the public bank, the owners, the Catalan agency of the property. For this – for this – the unification of the employment portfolio with that of social matters, in order to consider that it is necessary to make a study, it is necessary to rethink and reflect as the future social protection agency of Catalonia, with all the benefits derived from social matters. And as work, too, as the main social impulse instrument of our society, with occupation as the main social impulse instrument of our society. So you see this government, but so do many European, Nordic governments, where its main portfolio, which comprises 80, 90 percent of assumptions, but also action and political impulses, is a great portfolio of social and work. It has also been explained, and here I am already responding to some of the criticisms that have been made of the creation of a Department of Foreign Affairs, Intentional Relations, with the intention of setting up a clear negotiating agenda, therefore institutional, both with the Spanish State and with the European international institutions. Negotiating agenda for the democratic mandate we have on the table, but also to make an action of public diplomacy, of external projection, of explanation of the democratic process that our country is experiencing. And that's why we have competitions, I don't put it back together anymore. It is clear that Catalonia has external projecting skills, and it is quite clear that Catalonia can open... – it is not false, read it, have the State at its disposal – there is also an article that says that Catalonia can open the external representation offices that it believes fit to its interests. So, we're in this. And you do it when you make a pact with other autonomous communities, Ciutadans Group, you do it in Andalusia when you make a pact with the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, and you sign and assume the configuration of more offices abroad for the interests of Andalusia. So, here we do exactly the same thing. To defend the interests we have on the table in Catalonia, in this case, for a very majority mandate from the polls of 27 September. To the question of Mr.Iceta and also Mr.Rabell, if we are only talking about the process and the national transition, the answer is compelling: no. The process of national transition is parallel to a situation of social emergence, which is derived both from the injustice and rep Catalunya of the State as well as from a crisis, obviously structural, which has particularly affected the weakest collections. And the construction of a new country obviously involves the unequivocal compromise of building a fairer, more equal society and where the compromise of building a better country is made, like a new social contract. It could not be otherwise; we would not be defending, in this case, the construction of a new country. This is what the President said in his first speech, he made it clear, he said: "It is the first folder to take advantage of the slightest margin of manoeuvre we have in resources and competence and to deepen it into what we call a social shoal, with clearly political objectives, which involve many departments of the Generality. And obviously, Mr. Rabell, which involves the Department of Economics and Finance, because the shoc plan will require us to make assumptions, that we agree that there are expansionary assumptions in social terms, if we also agree that, to be expansionary assumptions, there will also have to be expansionary entries, because, if not, the truth is that reality will be enough to hear and make them applicable and to make them real. It has also been explained that this Government – and this we celebrate, and we celebrate that it is done so forcefully – is clearly committed to the creation of a secretary, the Department of Institutional Relations, transparency, good governance and control of public tenders. Let's move from a commission to a secretary, therefore, with full political action and impulse, with assumptions, with resources, with two general directions: public bidding control and transparency. Therefore, it seems to us that the momentum given to it in this environment will be important and we hope that it will be demonstrated in the proper sessions of this Parliament. The present Government and the government's action are obviously from the forces that set up an electoral coalition that is called Together for the Yes, a very cross-cutting Government, with different sensitivities. Hence, a much more matrixed governance structure with areas and coordination mechanisms than we are is proposed. It could not be otherwise, as the three areas of government explained before the president in his intervention, but also, for example, with a Council of the Presidency, which had not previously existed, which would make a secure government, of much more open, more transversal, more solidarity between all the parts than conform. It seems to us that this is innovation, that it makes a much more modern government, that this must certainly reduce, for example, sessions of each Tuesday's execution, because these coordination areas will allow a more efficient, more effective, more coordinated and more supportive government. We hope, therefore, that we can demonstrate that this structure does not respond to a distribution of power quotas, but that it obviously responds to an electoral coalition with a lot of diversity and a governance structure that is going to be much more effective and effective in its coordination and in the decisions it takes. Finally, I am trying to return the honorability to all those who have been most attacked for what they have done, or for what they are, or for doubts that they have placed themselves on the table of the members of the government. Ms. Arrimadas said that she did not share the criteria for selecting members of the Government and, concretely, she had doubts about the management of some member of the Government, specifically the Vice-President, of the economic management capacity. I think it's better that we talk with facts and hope that facts on our own days show that that's the way it is. Mr Junqueras finished, he finished his stage as mayor in Sant Vicenç dels Horts, a debt of 24_millions in inheritance to the Assembly – an inheritance, certainly, of some governments of the Popular Party and the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol –, 24_millions of euros that have passed to 4,8_millions of euros in four years and mig: 14_millions of euros in short, which are now zero, and 10_millions of euros in length that have become 4_millions of euros. The per capita debt of the citizens of Sant Vicenç dels Horts is 210_euros. It is one of the lowest in the entire metropolitan area; it is clear that this already gives thanks to its large municipal experience of its group, it must be carried out. The very same with the index of twilight, Mr Albiol, the same: while you ruled, for eight years, the index of twilight did not move. In four and a half years of Mr. Junquera's government, the index of time has only been lowered and the last two years and it has been lowered every month, so that it is the municipality of Catalonia where it has been further lowered these last years. (Whispering) Review the data – review the data. For what he does to President Puigdemont, don't they have any more arguments to put on the table than to cast doubts on his honesty? So, I don't know, I'm looking for arguments– I'm looking for arguments–, I'm not coming to sow doubts. It is a very bad taste to generate doubts and Mr Albiol and Mr Iceta have done so. Mr. Iceta has begun his intervention in this way. It is obvious that they will not agree either, Mr Albiol, with the judicialization of politics, because you are experts. Not from the policy that is done to the road but from the policy that is done to the Government and that each two for three leads us in front of the courts to the other public institutions. And what about the loyalty between administrations, Mr. Albiol, you and your government? It is clear that we agree to study, therefore, all those causes in which the Generalitat of Catalonia must be involved in order to lay down the characters at a much more democratic level at European level. Because the outreach itself is very high, of characters and causes, and that's what we're doing, and we're doing it with all legitimacy and all loyalty and respect for what public institutions represent in our country and its public servants. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.34.0	Once all the parliamentary groups have spoken, I can speak the President of the Generality, very honorable Mr Carles Puigdemont, to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.35.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond to every intervention and I will crown it at the end with a reflection that will also have some kind of personal matter. Mrs. Arrimadas, you think that you have said some things that I can share, but I, from the outset, must thank you for the good and your willingness as opposed to having, beyond the differences that we know and that some of them are certainly insurmountable, to have, notwithstanding this, a good institutional relationship and to contribute like this Government, and I myself have been willing to contribute, that parliamentary debates, political debates speak in an atmosphere of institutional and personal respect that you have at all times of your intervention accredited and, therefore, I want to thank you. You already know, like the rest of the chairmen of parliamentary groups, that after this appearance I have quoted you all to have a meeting and to be able to continue a relationship and an exchange of opinions and to detect, from sharing diagnosis, whether there are any points in this itinerary that I would tell you that we could share them. For us it will not stay, I am convinced that you, at the time of accepting these findings, believe that you will make an effort in this sense and I would like to thank you. You were talking about..., it seemed to me that it was a bit of a question of the trajectory of the councillors, I don't know why I said it, concretely, but it does make me the effect that all of them in the personal, professional or political sphere, because some of them have been serving the country a long time since politics, all of them have credited an experience and a willingness to serve indisputable, even all of the people you assume to be adhering to the independence process, for which four days ago and when they were Members of this Parliament they weren't in the defence of the right to decide, and others were. Therefore, from this point of view, this idea that this is a government that only unites them with the defense of independence, not only after the first hour, is that the first passes that are already taking this government are already denying it in this sense. On the Catalan economy, I wish you that in the next few weeks, as you have put up some kind of doubt about the ability of some member of the government to be able to accompany the dynamism that suits the Catalan economy, when news emerges – perhaps some of it is already happening – when in the next few days you see things happening in this sense, and when data appear, for example, on the external investment in Catalonia in the first three quarters of 2015 in relation to 14, when they appear, I insist, that they will be indisputable, I am convinced that you, this openness, this prevention that you have with Mr Junqueras because it is independent, I believe, the correctness with which Parliament can only recognize the fact that you do not produce things, but rather that you do not produce them. But in any case, we'll have time, we'll have occasions to follow him. Aren't social policies this government's bet? I think I've done it with a lot of insistence. I said it to the investiture panel, I said it every time I was asked for my opinion of respect, and I insisted on it again today. Don't forget that you have two carpets, this government, every councillor, the vice president, every councillor you have two carpets, and they're interrelated carpets and one you have to see directly with the other, and so, where, if not, do we do all this? For people. And you will be able to prove this in each of the actions that the Government places on the table and from the counsel's appearances. It will not be this government that will peril the self-government. This self-government has been and is in danger, and you know it. And it's been and it's in danger because they're cutting it off or they're shipping it. It is no coincidence that at the first meeting of the Government, which I presided over, we already decided to file an unconstitutional appeal with a measure of the Spanish Government that clearly sets up competitions. That's what we always find ourselves with. So, who's periling self-government? Those who lick their competitions. Those who asphyxiate it economically and prevent it from exercising the skills that – ep! , constitutionally – has transfers, recognizes and has the duty to satisfy. Therefore, the peril is not carried by those who have said that we will make it complete until the end of the self-government, the end of the statutory powers, but by those who, in an exercise of, let us say to ourselves, "political trilerism commits us to fulfil the constitutional mandate or, on the other hand, take away all the tools that prevent us, at last, to complete this task. Therefore, we are not exactly in the logic, but precisely in the control, of strengthening the self-government of Catalonia, and the best defense of this self-government, which the majority of this Parliament has been able to interpret, is that it has some tools of state to be able to defend it well, that it is to defend people. Mr. Iceta, you tell me that in near thirty-seven days of grace. I think you don't believe it yourself, that, because you don't even start me anymore. And you yourself already... – with a tone that I don't discuss and that I thank you –, you yourself, therefore, already point to the idea that this government doesn't even deserve it; it's not that it has it, it's not that it doesn't deserve it. And, so... well, I guess I'll have a chance now at the end of answering some of the things you asked me to explain. But about the splits... I would like to make it clear that for us the electoral commitments have a certain value. I do not know for you, however, for us, that we went to elections with a clear, clear compromise, about how it should be and how long this legislature should last, we will not fail, we will do everything possible to complete it. It's obvious that if we can be told we won't be divided. And it's obvious that if, by any chance, we have to be a dinosaur, neither does drama because, instead of a divide, I feel a dinosaur. But we move in this year and a half of the legislature, which is what we said to the citizen. What would not be fair is that we say to the citizens« they vote for us, that what we do will be this in divided_months, and when we continue to be able to say: « So, look, you know what? There'll be a little more, there'll be three years or four. That wouldn't be fair, it's more: it wouldn't be honest. And this government won't do that, as much as opposition groups may have more experience than we have of failing to carry out electoral mandates. That's not a government... I mean, you'll say it, and I'm sure on more than one occasion they'll find motivating and examples that will allow them to say that more than a concentration government, more than a government of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes, is a government of internal balances. Look, as far as I'm concerned, you're not going to believe this, or, if you do, you're going to see that you don't believe it, because it's better for you to explain what it looks like to you than it's easier to impose on the image collection than on the recognition of reality. The disconformity, in short, in the idea that there is no environmental department... Escort, what is to be seen is the policies – what is to be seen is the policies. Just as another spokesman also pointed out the lack of another environmental advisory body, which is not compatible with the fact that we must seek to be as effective as possible, as transversal as possible, so that each time we understand more – and I believe that I am sure – that the competitions are not static, but rather permeability and compenetration, and then, on the other hand, we will ask ourselves to make ad hoc advice for each of the competitions. We will make a huge effort, as it cannot be in any other way, in the cross-cutting of policies – the environment is one of them – and so much so – so much so – that the government in the next few days will go along with all two jobs so that this Parliament, the first law that I can pass, is the law of the climate change. Therefore, the facts – the facts, and not the statements – are the ones that will allow you, at the end of the legislature, to say whether or not we have been sensitive and curate and effective in the environmental challenges. Therefore, will it be focused solely on the process, the legislature? No... - No, no. It's just that the more I say it, I see you didn't just listen to it, that's all. And I'm making a lot of saying; I'm making a lot, with emphasis, so be clear. You, in the line of your later intervention, listen to what you want, reformulate it, then write down a little bit – because you made it clear that you were also able to say the same – but in the end, you try to bring water to your moray to try to present this government as a government that only has an obsession – and, in this, it coincides with other parliamentary groups – and the other, that is a government that does not want to dialogue. Listen to me, probably the word"dialeg" is the most repeated word in my interventions until now. You have the right, you, to suppose whether or not you are able to complete with this dialog compromise – you have the right to do so – but don't tell me that the dialog is not part of my government's personal commitment and commitment. Do you know who doesn't want to talk? The Government of Spain. I have already said, by active and passive, that I will not have a problem with the new Government of Spain to have the findings you need. What has a problem with the Government of Catalonia is the Government of Spain, which even courtesy alone is not able to apply when it is simply trying to clear the phone and greet what it is, according to the constitution that they force us to complete, the ordinary representative of the State in Catalonia. Therefore, we are not the ones who will decide not to dialogue with Spain. We have a lot of things to talk about! If, in fact, the full route..., the same statement of 9 November, approved for this Parliament, demanded the dialogue with Spain! Therefore, how can I attribute a lack of will to this government or to this president or to the majority of Parliament? We're serious, and we're going to the font, and we're going to the fact, and to the reality. And on that I'll give you a reflection at the end of my intervention. It seemed to me that I was complimenting the fact that the first passes I gave did not seem to bet on acceleration, but on caution, meditation and security. Yeah, well. It is true, but it is not indissociable the compliment of the full route that we have presented to the chamber with exactly caution, with meditation, with certainty. It's not just incompatible, it's what we have to do, and it's what we do. I think that's what's troubling me. Because to you, or to some of you, it would please you that we set ourselves up for a precipice, and contemplating, then, satisfied me, "we already said, "you see how they stood, "it couldn't end well in any way. And we, as you can imagine, by responsibility and service to the country, the first interest we have is that in the time and content terms that we have undertaken, all this is done with the necessary calm, caution, meditation, measurement and security. We're here – we're here. Mr. Rabell, speaking..., described a situation that I share, and it is true: there is a situation of social emergence, there are unspeakable consequences of the crisis. That's right, and I won't deny it. Moreover, you literally said: "We will not know substantial democratic adventures without addressing the problem of social fracture. And it's true. So much so that I am convinced that then, when you were talking about assumptions, whether we had assumptions or not, you would see that it is the proposition of assumptions that this description, which we share, is translated into assumptions. Moreover, it will result in an attitude of reaching agreements with you too, in those aspects of the presumption that help us to neutralize or to conjure up this risk of not being able to recognize democratic adventures because of this social fracture. So I take the word for it, too, and the vice president also, to try to reach presuppostarial agreements that vagrate in the line that I am convinced we share. What I would not have felt is that for one thing we blasphemed the presuppositional extension and, for the other, we would not be willing to work to achieve that there is no presuppositional extension and that all folds, not just a fair majority, but a large majority, we have a strong assumption that it was truly a social discourse as we are convinced that we can put on the table and that you can provide them with arguments of approximation. And I'm convinced he'll be like that, and back off his will. Return, please too, my and ours and get to work so that we can, in this way, excavate and share routes from this path with as many groups as possible. I was wondering if this would be a government of continuity or if it would be a government of detail..., and he made a statement that spoke of the need for expanded assumptions. Before Mrs. Rovira mentioned it: in order to be able to have expansionary assumptions, expansionary entrances are caldran. And not just, let's say, the estovalles' slender, to go sluggishly from here to lay there, but, obviously, expansionary entrances. If not, we will deceive the people, because we will offer them magnificent toasts to the sun, which everyone will be willing to share, but at the time of translating it into fact we cannot give them satisfaction, with which the fracture is still greater and the distrust is still more growing. If we take this responsibility, if we make it clear that we have an entry problem and that if we either solve the entry problem or we can't keep the assumptions expansive, we have, I insist, a joint itinerary to resort to. On the environmental issue, I think I've already put it back before. When the paper endures it all, I don't know another way that we don't have to come here to present a paper, from the start, and present them all the possible explanations, because we're barely a week old, not yet, from the government, we're a few days old, and what we've been able to put on the table is what they give these days, nothing more; so it's clear that there's a paper. But this idea that the paper can take it all, I mean we'll put it on a paper and then we'll go on, to this government you won't be able to take it back. Because..., and we will start today, taking responsibility, as I have reiterated and reiterate, that we will go as far as we can, but we will not make the city feel disappointed, both in the expectations of social improvement and in the expectations, let us say, of resorting to the achievement of the political objectives that we have. Just an anecdotal detail, huh? It's not worth it, but... you're blaming me for the separation between business and occupation. I have passed over the governments of which you were a part – or a part, pardon, of your group, was a part – and they had always been separate – they had always been separate. Okay. So, if the argument has changed now, so look, it's all right; but, anyway, that's it, just as I could prove the short time I could see the hemerotheque. You're done with a Disraeli sentence you said, aren't you? , "a good government without a terrible opposition..., or fearsome. Fearsome, huh? Well, it's not time to be fearsome, is it? Okay? I already accept it, I recognize it, and if this has to be an indispensable condition for there to be a good government..., listen to me, go ahead. But you and I will hear that doing this for or inspiring fear – inspiring fear – maybe I don't know if it's the best ally to do the things we have to do. But I recognize him in the middle and what he wanted to say, and for my band, I will not feel frightened, in any case, every time you exercise your lawful, legitimate and necessary function of opposition. Mr García Albiol, on behalf of the People's Party, I believe that he has come to deny what I have come to present here. I came to introduce the government and its structure, I didn't come to read a list. It's precept, it's the norm, it's the law: I have to come here to compare, not to make a general policy debate. I have not come here to have a control session with the Government, which will be there; I have not come here to discuss the policies of the Government, which will be there; I have come to explain to that which the law obliges me to do, and which with great taste I do, which is: how do we intend to run this country, how do we intend to implement the government program that approved this Parliament of Catalonia, and how do we explain as much as possible how do we intend to do it. So, I don't know where you see, you, nothing that leads him to this attitude, let me tell you, a little less of the function that the President of the Generality does today before the Parliament of Catalonia. I played it that way. I'm sure I was wrong, but I wanted to tell you. You say we're talking about generic concepts, and we're talking about..., listen to me, you'll have the opportunity... – you and your group, forgive me – you'll have the opportunity to ask each of the counselors and counselors and the vice president everything you want to do about implementation and priorities, and how to do things in their parliamentary appearances. And it will be soon, that, I have already said: all the advisers and the vice president..., some have already done so, others will come in before or at the end of this session their willingness to compare. And this willingness to compare is going to happen very quickly. In addition, I insist, there is a list of parliamentary committees that, as Jordi Turull said in a conversation, will no longer allow a mark of the area, but a mark of the man– you will understand this better, surely, that no one in this chamber– and, therefore, will allow you to follow very closely, very closely, the one that makes that counselor, and his competence. Now, listen, he says: "We do not pose in the ridiculous before the world. Well, first of all, is there anything ridiculous about defending what most of a parliament wants? Ep! I don't think so, but tell me, please. Is there anything ridiculous to defend that two million people defend? There's something ridiculous about trying to explain – explain, that it's an action, let's say, violent and very democratic people – to the world, where it's normal that they don't understand things, why do things? What's so ridiculous about that, sir...? Can the Spanish State do it, and can't Catalonia do it? Can the Spanish State explain for the world what it wants and Catalonia can't explain itself, in the world? If it is the people who ask us, it is the people who ask us: "They will have to explain themselves better. How do you think you're gonna do it? What do you think you're doing? What are their intentions? Listen to me, what I would ask is for you to help us explain it, to explain it there where you need it, including the People's Parliamentary Group of the European Parliament, no problem. But let us not forget that we are doing something that we are not only not ashamed of, but that we feel obliged to do, that it is fulfilling the mandate of this Parliament – of this Parliament – with the qualified majority, and the mandate that gives us the results of the polls. And do you know who's being ridiculous? Do you know who the world is worried about today? For the Spanish government, it's more, for the non-Spanish government, that's why he's worried. You read the economic papers, you read what the European authorities say, you read what's going on in the international opinion environment, and you see that they don't shoot for a little bit or throw at the Spanish political situation, more quickly there's a big concern – a big concern. And we will prove the ability of the Spanish policy to generate consensus or not, and to generate strong governments or not, and to generate lasting legislatures or not. We will see this, or not, because it is likely that the risk of elections will increase as the days pass, and we will see, effectively, whether what concerns the world is a democratic, clear, transparent process, or is the embolism that Spanish politics has become at these times. And, believe me, it's not the world's concern, it's also our concern – we're also worried about ourselves – because you were talking – I don't know if, sorry, it was you or another of the spokespersons, or of the interveners – if we would talk to Montoro, if we wanted to negotiate with the Spanish State... – surely you weren't. Listen to me, if we don't have a problem with this relationship, no problem, we don't have an indisposition to deal with the Spanish government that is the autonomous mark so that we can develop the skills that are assigned to the autonomy. Who has problems they are, yes, sir, who has problems they are, because who plays with payment terms, who plays with finance and with the liquidity of this very autonomy is the Spanish Government. And it seems to me that there are very clear examples of this and we don't get away because we have forgotten them. And who's galling—and what's galling—to want to anoint the Government of Catalonia in order to get to what's rightfully near it, by law, and because it's not the Government of Catalonia, it's the Government of Spain, and it's the Lord Montoro. Therefore, the problem we do not have in the dialog, the problem we do not have to try to agree on the conditions of the financing of the Government of Catalonia, but the problem has absolved it – it has absolved it – the Government of Spain. Mr. Joan Garriga, of the CUP, who began, therefore, in a large session, almost as I do – seems to me to be carrying a plethora of difference – I also thank you for the tone and that you have highlighted... – in some things I may not agree – but that you have highlighted the commitments we have reached and the agreement to be able to bring forward the legislature. And it's true: you have a high responsibility; that's true. I don't know if it's new to you, but they have it, huh? And I think you'll be able to..., have opportunities to satisfy and demonstrate that this high responsibility has been understood, internalized, and know how to return to the country in the form of compliments of the agreements that we have reached to bring forward the legislature. It's not... it's true, you're not an anomaly. It's true. I call a certain change in the country's political and media culture to hear what the CUP is. Those of us who have known them years ago, in the assemblies, I think we have a vantage point to try to understand what the political reality of the CUP – and social – is. And, therefore, from my point of view, I am sure that I do not regard them as an absolute anomaly, because I know well the relation they have in certain social sectors, but I was very pleased that they did not ask for the moon. Thank you, because that also suits us. Today... it's a few months, a period, let's say, relatively short, how we have to show people that we have the greatest ambition and the greatest realism. And if you mean it this way, I buy it, because it seems to me that I respond to this objective of trying to think of a republic designed for people. If we deviate a thousand degrees from this, we'll be doing something wrong, and we'll deviate from what's the full route and what's the deep sense of the full route. He was talking about elements of understanding and elements of concern, and he was talking about energy, housing, etcetera..., betting. I believe that the elements of understanding are as solid as they are because the elements of concern to us conjure up the length of the parliamentary relationship. It's true, gambling, we don't go out..., if we take some aspect of the government in part: secretaries general, photography is out of focus, right. If we take it together, the picture is already clearer; we're not where we want to be, we're not where we definitely need to be, but we're better. There are more counselors than ever, the government is more equal than ever. It is insufficient, and we will not make it a flag to say: "We have already arrived... It is not true. But if we take the picture, we take it all, we don't just take that part that allows us to present it out of focus, huh? We look at the government's action and look at it in this sense, so how we have given women's policies the import and relevancy they have, by placing it, for example, in the Department of the Presidency. He told me about the concept of "stabilized". It's true, we're here, I'm here because there's a guarantee of stability, and the people on the street expect that what we're going to do is count on that stability we've committed ourselves to. I have already said before, in some previous intervention, that this is a handicap that we do not see reduced, but that if we can extend it to other groups, I am convinced that you first will be interested in this, but we need this parliamentary probation that you and we signed is vaguely explicit, and we can gather to make the jumps before we do in this legislature. You are aware of this and I thank you for restoring the key in your intervention, and we have occasion to demonstrate it in the next few days. Reference has also been made to the issue of whether they have withdrawn, if the causes have not withdrawn... I would like to reiterate what the Councillor of the Presidency and the Government's spokesman said yesterday: we will always defend security, and security is not an object of negotiation, negotiation or political change. We've already shown that, don't play. It is more, I think I should reiterate another time that in those cases where there is damage to public servants – police or you will function –, in those cases where there is damage to public good, the Generalitat is not withdrawn from anything, it seems to me that it is quite clear, that. Now, do we have an attitude, say, to go into what moment determined actions, if appropriate, can always characterize ourselves in cases that do not affect public benefits and public servers? We have already said that yes, that we are available, but that I have made it clear, firmly clear – and above all a special message to the police and to the servers that may have some elements of anxiety for some informational confusions – we, the Government of Catalonia, do not withdraw from any case that affects public servants, public good or public interests. That said, a final brush stroke in relation to the comments that Mr. Iceta and Mr. Albiol addressed to me in relation to my personal life or my professional life. You see, Mr. Iceta, I already thank him that you said – I seemed to feel it with a lower view than the rest – that there was no irregularity. Well, yeah... at least, right? You know I don't do politics many years ago, I don't do it. I started in 2006, I had never dedicated myself, and when I started, Mr. Iceta was already engaged in politics for many years. So, this is a situation he doesn't know about, but I do, and all my life I've won, let's say, in general, in the world of communication. And my experience, in this sense, is public and notoriety, not only now that I am engaged in politics, but before, because I also had public vocation activity, which required to be very clear in this sense. Therefore, it is normal that I had participations. Why? Because I didn't just count..., I mean, I haven't devoted myself to politics, I've done private work, and I have a vain claim to continue – the day I can – to private life; I don't want to stay in politics forever. Surely, when I pray, Mr. Iceta will still be, surely, like the count of Monterroso. [[relays]] But I don't – I don't. It's a personal, ethical compromise, I don't want to make politics the only way to win my life long enough for my life. I've already demonstrated it in the past and I'll prove it in the end. And, therefore, I always have an eye to the world of which I am professional, which is the world of journalism. I can give you a lot of policy advice, I will – and above all, expert people like you – but journalism could not give you any. I'd make him a couple of recommendations. The first one, which you don't care about – and I think that this is the journalists..., or at least the press journalists, that's what we're very clear about – from that tempt that you say: "That reality doesn't give you a good headline. You don't care, that's why. It's a lot to call, I know, but you don't care. They give them rigor. Rigor, why? Because he confided or wanted to confuse – and Mr. García Albiol, in this sense, also insisted – as if I had had some kind of benefit. The company of which I was Director General until 2006 – I am sure that I quit at the time of entering politics – participated, like all the journalistic companies of this country, in the contests of programs that opened a government that you knew very well, among other things, because the project of which I speak, I came to present to you, when you were responsible for Parliament. And you don't have to remember, because you had to see a guy there who was presenting a project to you. And I presented projects, as they presented the set of journalistic companies. And they got subsidies – published in the official newspaper, with all transparency – until 2010. 2010 is no longer a subsidy. Did I remember who ruled 2010? I, especially, who didn't rule, 2010? Do you know that since 2010, from 2010, there is no subsidy? Not one of them. Do you know that I left the board of directors in June 2010, even though in the business register the 11th generation of 2011, a few days after the president took possession? Do you see any irregularities in this? Do you know that I have always declared my connections in the Register of Interests of the Parliament of Catalonia, without exception, and that I have not hidden a given single? It's public and notoriety. Therefore, neither the type of deception in this sense, nor the type of irregularity. It's more, I can defend myself with a very high head, that my professional activities are the ones that have done me as I am, they are the ones that have made me appreciate the profession to which I feel very attached, which is that of journalism, and they are the ones that will allow me – God wants me to be that way, because I have a long life – to be able to dedicate myself to my profession, which I cherish so much. [[Greetings.]] About this, tell him that I'm not surprised that these things appear – and other things that I'm going to read now – because I know I'm an object of scrutiny with a magnifying glass. I've been four years and a half from the mayor, I haven't had a problem with anything – with anything –; I know I'll have them now. Someone will look and say: "When that mayor did not know what, now it turns out that, looking at today's light... All right, I've been accounting for everything that I've done in the plenary, in the electoral campaigns, in the audits that we've put on the march, impeccably. I told you the other day that the only time I had to go to court was because I rented trains to facilitate people's mobility to go to the day demonstration; it's the only time I had to go to court. But I'm already willing to have someone rip us off to get what I told him wasn't a good tip, which is that the reality is that you're a good headline. And the second advice I give him. Do you know what the reporters say? From going to the font; before you say anything, let's go to the font. Because, of course, I'm not going to tell him that I've read, these days, about me or my wife, and he's going to let me, but I've read a lot of barbaric things. I mean, anecdotal things, right? Ever since I've got a long hair because I have a scar that I don't have. But, of course, what does he want? That I've denied you every barbarity that's said about my person? I don't give the abast – I don't give the abast. Even the reference to my article, to my statements about the article by Carles Rahola... I forgot to say one essential thing. The reference coming from a newspaper that wasn't Catalan to this had to be rectified, because I sent a bureaufax. What happens, that the rectifications appear a couple of days later, small, and, if it's not a job to go to the font and look at the entire information sequence, there's an important part missing, and maybe some of you wouldn't have made the mistake of trying to stuff me with some non-existent statements, and especially in the sense that they gave them, if they went to the font and made it happen since that day they liked to believe it was a report from someone who wasn't there, and who explained to him that there was a mayor who had become a fool and said that they had to expel the invaders, actually had to rectify, because I called them demanding rectification. But I don't get to the whole place; so they read very strange things. I don't know where you found that I lied about my résumé. Do you know what's going on? I wear, as I said, four and a half years of mayor's office, and since the first day I've had the web; there's my biography. Go to the font – go to the font. And if you don't want to go, you can go to other sources before that. I will read literally – and they will allow me, and I hope that it will be the last time I have to mention it, because there are aspects of this past that for me it is not very gratifying to remember – which I declared in an interview, the year 2011, consultable, certainly, to the network, eh? He said: "When he studied philology in Girona, did he continue to live in Amer? And I reply: "Yes, until I installed Girona. First I combined the studies with the work of correspondent until my first contract, which was to be corrected, to the daily El Punt. By the way, I've never done anything in El Punt's paper, and I won't have it, have I? I'm saying that because someone associates, I still don't know who you're helping or who you don't know... there's a lot of sympathy, and I've worked on it, but I'm not a shareholder, and I never did. "This forced me to make various decisions, the first of which, combining the work that I was passionate about with university hours. That's on condition. And then there was an important fact that still conditioned me more: I had an accident on the road, the generation of 1983, returning from work, which forced me to be a few months down and disconnected myself from the studies as well. I had the need to take it all back and made a decided bet for journalism, because at that time I incorporated myself as the editor. The hours of the faculty were incompatible..., I left the race and concentrated on the professional, and I went and came from Amer, after the experience of the accident, became very happy. I think I was very clear about respect. Therefore, I would ask you, please, for personal respect, that if you want to know anything that affects my life I ask, and go to the font. And it's me, and what they rely on me directly, not what they rely on others who can put in the mouth of I don't know who said I don't know what and what to you – or someone else – allows him to steal what is a lack of personal respect. Therefore, with this I hope that I have given the acclaims that some of you have asked me, I trust there have been answers to some of the questions that the groups have asked me also regarding what we have come to do here, which is to talk about the structure of the government and, I insist once more, to make myself available to all of you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.36.0	Then has the word the illustrious lady Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.37.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, of course I believe that we can give of course that we will respect in all the interventions that we will make in Parliament and, for our part, absolutely predisposed to hold it. More than that, we have shown one thing, and it is that we are not only opposed here in the Parliament of Catalonia: we are also opposed to other places in Spain, to other parliaments like this. And we have shown that it can be responsible opposition, that it can be opposition that, without entering the government, without asking for cadres, without asking for re, we, after all, facilitated various times that can start the legislature, that can have an investiture. Why? Because we have one thing very clear, and we don't want to be a new policy that means institutions are blocked. And I think it's something that we need to put together, because it's really compatible, new politics, regeneration, with being able to pull forward a legislature, being able to start working. And we, in addition, have been very criticized for one thing, and we have come to terms with very different parties. People criticise us: "How have you been able to reach agreements with the Socialist Party, with the People's Party, even with many parts of Spain and in many punctual agreements? And we always say the same thing: we've been able to do it because it's what needs to be done. It is to be done, it must be able to reach agreements between parties that are so different between them – like the People's Party or Podemos – and so different from ours. Therefore, what we would like is for this to be a parliament, as we can see in other cases in all of Spain, where the opposition can reach agreement with the government; where the opposition, from the clearest ideological discrepancy, can even facilitate an investment. Because we have shown it; this is not just a mouthpiece, we have shown that we are capable of doing it. And also in one thing: that we are a realistic opposition. Because those who demand that governments do things as if when you enter the government you find a machine to make money we're not ourselves. We have been able to recognize that the accounts are to be squared and that governments, when they come to govern, sometimes do not have enough resources to meet all the needs, and more so at a time like this, that is a time where there are more social needs and when there are fewer public money. That's being realistic. Now, what we can ask is that while money is spent on things that are not necessary, while money is spent on things that are political structures, while money is spent on things that we don't even have the competitions, like external matters... Mrs. Rovira, we don't have competitions in external matters; we have competitions in external action. External matters are from the states; external actions are from the autonomous communities. It's different things. So, if we devote resources to it, we won't have enough resources to meet the social needs. This I think is very clear when we also propose to detail some parties, such as political structures, parliaments, county councils, embassies, subsidies to certain entities related to separatism... There are groups that say: "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We haven't done this. We ask for social increments and the day from which money can be drawn, and, in addition, we propose job creation projects. Therefore, our ability to oppose loyal and realistic has been demonstrated in other parts of Spain, and we would love to be able to prove it here. But there is one thing that is obvious: we are not in a situation of democratic normality in Catalonia right now; we are not in a situation of democratic normality, because its layout, its full route, starts from a base that is out of legality and out of the constitutional framework and out of justice. Therefore, we would already like to be able to make this opposition, but we fear that here it will be a more complicated little bit than in other autonomous parliaments where I recognize that it is very complicated, sometimes, to explain why we are able to arrive at certain agreements so as not to block the institutions. And I'm telling you one thing about the dialog: its layout, its full route, already has the consequences of closing the dialog, we already see, the rest of the opposition in this Parliament, and with the Government of Spain. So, its layout, you have to recognize that it is absolutely contrary to a dialogue and negotiation. And respect the counselors, who spoke to you about Mr Junqueras as well, I did not say that all counselors have no experience or personal and professional trajectory; I mentioned some that it is obvious that they are not characteristic for their trajectory. I, respect Mr Junqueras, the problem is not that he is independent; the problem is that he has said things that are irresponsible. Because, as far as I know, you're all independent, and who doesn't agree that I raise my hand. It's not Mr Junquera's problem to be independent; it's that he can't be a responsible economic advisor while he's planning to take a week's break to paralyze the Catalan economy. And besides, just one thing I asked you, I think it's the third time, and you didn't answer me: will you negotiate a better financing system with the Government of Spain? Because we're right about those who think we don't have a good financing system, which should have been negotiated in December 2014. If we're right! But you're giving it up. We don't want to give up. I ask you again – I know I won't have another reply – whether or not you are going to ask your Economy Advisor to negotiate a better financing system? You'll ask him to negotiate better terms of the FLA, yes or no? Because if they don't, and I honestly believe they won't, because their political trajectory isn't characteristic of calling for negotiations with the Spanish government, that they don't want to negotiate independence. So, it's very complicated to negotiate a better financing system...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.38.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.39.0	... – now I'm finished, Madam President – and they want to negotiate independence... Hear that it's a contradictory little thing? Therefore, they are putting the self-government of Catalonia and the Catalans in danger, because if you act out of the law, out of justice, this will have consequences, and we expect you not to arrive, but we are afraid you will arrive. And they are putting you in danger of the self-government of Catalonia. And, respect your person, I didn't get in there today, but I did say that I did comment on the communication media. And with all personal respect, because, more than that, we don't know each other, we didn't agree with any committee – and it's already strange – nor with any motion in the last legislature, I'll just tell you one thing: if Mr. Rajoy, Mr. Rivera or Mr. Sánchez have the facts you have, the subsidies you have rejected, that your partner is appointed head of the public radio in Catalonia..., if that, if all was a matter of Mr. Rivera, Mr. Rajoy or Mr. Sánchez, I think you'd be the first to criticize him. So, you understand that I'm not saying it's cool, but a little weird...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.40.0	Madame Arrimadas, it's been five minutes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.41.0	And, therefore, I finish – yes, thank you, Madam President – I think this was the first plethora of many and, as I say, more extensive to negotiate, more extensive to improve management, but, obviously, firm to fight against policies that are outside the law and that are outside, moreover, the social majority of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.42.0	The word has the illustrious Lord Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.43.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll try to adjust exactly to time. I thank the Councils, President; so much so, I thank them, that I began to apply them before I was given them. Because you say, "You have to go to the font. So, who's more direct than asking you? So they do it, as you said, it's you. Just as I said to him – and I take advantage of it to repeat it – he said: "I would like to make them come to terms with the convenience of having response instruments and immediate acclaim to escape doubts and avoid controversies that may affect the good image of the government and the presidency. I say this because it provides a quick answer on issues such as your own personal résumé, your business relationship with the new director of Catalunya Radio, or the rebuffed ingenious subsidies for a press release for you and whose wife is an editor. Giving in fact that there has been no irregularity – and I may push the voice so that you don't tell me that it's down there –, "in these questions fit the highest celerity in the explanations that follow the case to avoid any doubts about respect. I think you did. I must ask you, therefore, not to disfigure my interventions. Perhaps it was my answer, which I did to Mr. García Albiol, because, demon! I, on line 10 of my intervention, thanked him for the layout of the dialogue with all the groups. I have finished, moreover, giving myself a little more, for what it means: the loyal collaboration of our group. I thanked him for his commitment, again, to put the social agenda at the first point. I, for one, man! , in which we agree, we make efforts. Go on, I do them all the time. Now, it's true that there's always the storm on the part of some, from the government, to examine the opposition. It's still free in this life, but a good distribution of papers... and the good countries have a good government and a good opposition. It is up to you to make the best possible government, and to us to make the best possible opposition. Some concrete questions. The issue of legal certainty. Look, here we have a discrepancy, and we probably will not resolve it, but all that is based on the resolution adopted for this Parliament on 9 November, from our point of view, will be lacking legal certainty. And here, it is true, there is a discrepancy, but that's why ours, we would say, insistence is not to put it to you in contradiction... no, no, no, it's from the observation that there is a full route that we don't share. And I know that when I recommend readings to him, he always tells me that I am expanding them, my own, and it is true; fortunately, in these of the lawyers, there are not all colors and, moreover, they have that formula, there, "except for a better opinion based on law, it seems to me that they always want to say, "There will come another who will say otherwise, and so much goes. Well, all right. But yesterday there was an article that I think was worth detailing in La Vanguardia, by Xavier Arbos, which speaks about this topic, which I humbly recommend. By the way, you were also talking about my long political trajectory. I beg your pardon, I wish yours too, that it is not limited to split_months. I'm not mad. Because I, a president who only lasts a few months, so it's not much of a president. And, therefore, I wish for it, that it be longer. It's true; you and I have some things in common. You were explaining the circumstances in which you stopped studying. I, for a passé, which I also have explained on a web, passed it from politics, precisely, and which, therefore, stays there and there it is. It's passed to me too; to me I've been decorated with various licenses. At the last election campaign someone decided that I was licensed in history, that it must be from the few faculties I didn't climb, but... And, therefore, this can happen to us. But when a president of the Generality is the first interested in getting rid of this type of questions, we can focus on what matters. He quotes from the Bible: "By their deeds you will know them, Matthew 7,20. We'll try to practice this maximum. You say: "You will not give us... No, yes: the thirty-seven days you will have them – you will have them. Now, asking, dubting, questioning, even criticizing, is the function of opposition. And, therefore, it is up to us to do this. Now, we'll be delighted to see the appearances of the councillors, the vice president, to know who his plans are. And with those of us who agree or look good, we'll say they look good, and with those who don't, no. You say: "Environment: the important is politics. It's true. But there's always a risk – and I've known it through others – that the stone is slimming green, to say the least. And, therefore, it's a risk that we've wanted to put on the table. Last but not least, and why I might be clearer than at other times: we want the best for this country. And we, therefore, want the best for your government and your presidency. Now, look, it will allow us to fear that our loyalty to a full road, which we understand is unfeasible and dangerous, may misrepresent the hopes that the country legitimately has in a new president and a new government. If we understand that, we'll hear what the role of the government and the opposition is and we can establish many dialogs that are beneficial to our fellow citizens. Thank you very much. (Applause)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.44.0	The word has the illustrious Lord Lluís Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.45.0	Thank you, President. Very briefly, a couple of things according to the answer of the very honorable. I would say that, as in a good way, the president will end up printing a small piece of junk to the Government of the Generality, which will seem to be debating 'between the realistic Pla and the surrealist Dalí. And it's a bit of a debate that they're trying to do, actually, with a full route that we've also considered questionable, and the while. And here the place, actually, that we have a discussion with all the implications that presuppose the assumptions, huh? , which is not an accounting exercise, but is the policy with capital letters, because it is not merely a matter of quadrupling accounts, but rather of defining policies. First, to define priorities; to define the way to go to seek resources, the way to discuss the conditions in which we move. And here, indeed, there is a whole debate and a whole political battle in which the Government of the Generality will always stand alongside us, when it comes to defending the Generality's ability to spend and act. That's why you don't have to doubt it at the moment. But also the rationality of spending and the way to act in certain areas; for example, in matters and with the capabilities and potentials that the Government of the Generality has in the struggle, for example, against tax fraud, because in this land we may say that we are very Spanish, huh? , and that the level of tax fraud in Catalonia is exactly, has the same proportions as the rest of the state. And, of course, some assumptions are also..., and I wouldn't want to extend it, because it's not the topic of the day, but they're also accompanying policies, they're accompanying laws; they're policies that they don't just have to see with the input indexes, but with the priorities and management of the departments; for example, certain health managements that have translated..., for details that have affected the number of beds at the hospital have been translated later into referrals to private management centers that don't assume, in the global import, a reduction in spending. Therefore, in the assumptions we talk about many things, we talk about many aspects of politics, and this is where we will have to..., as the others would say, the fight in the mud; we will have to go down to concrete and land. Well, so we're stuck for this fundraiser. Just saying one thing to finish, because it came out before and I would know it would be hard for you to stick around like this. Look, I'm part of a..., I come from a tradition of social movements, in concrete terms of the vein movement, which has always worked and struggled to give to protests and social mobilization democratic, peaceful and organized formats, just to avoid – to avoid – that the legitimate protest of citizenship at certain times is transformed into derivatives of violence or into situations that are not desirable. And, uh, some of us have tradition, and for years, we've done it all the way down the street, huh? , used to people organizing and protesting in a certain way. And that's cost us a few times... I've never been cut off by the glass from my boot, but they did scalp my ribs, because you already know that sometimes there are situations in which entities like Brimo act in a very democratic way, that's to say that when they start to spread claws there isn't for everyone, right? And, from this tradition and from this culture, I want to claim the honor of the companies that have been prosecuted and that I have previously mentioned, members of the Workers' Commissions, members of the Veinal Entities, members of the Association of Progressive Students, who are people who have characterized themselves precisely to contribute or organize this social protest in terms of democracy, who have defended the rights of society, who I am proud to say are my people and my companies and companies, and that insinuating that they can be assimilated to terrorists is an evil that I cannot tolerate. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.46.0	The word has the illustrious Lord García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.47.0	Mr. President, I haven't missed it, not much less. I did criticize him, but in my intervention I didn't miss him. I'll tell you what, too, huh? , with all cordiality: if every time the criticism from the People's Party of Catalonia is less likely, it will have a very serious problem of emotional balance; I tell you, it will have an issue of emotional balance. We have criticized him, and we will continue to criticise him, because his intervention has been more his own, so someone who reads the Official Diary of the Government of Catalonia than of the President of the Generality to whom, after three months without government, Catalonia, he has to expose the master lines of his Government, explain what his Government is, but we also understand from the People's Party that he should have made some brushstrokes of which are the most important priorities to pull ahead of the full run of Catalonia. And you insisted very much: "Listen to me, what do you mean? That the government of Catalonia does the ridiculous thing when it comes to alienation? So, look, I have to tell you that when the Government of Catalonia is dedicated to explaining and selling a hypothetical country project to the rest of Europe and the world together they are making the ridiculous – they are making the ridiculous. And when the president of the Generalitat d'alhores, the mayor, sends a letter to all the prime ministers of the European Union explaining the independence project and the adventure that they want to start and the president or prime minister answers them, it means that they are making the ridiculous. And when you insist that an independent Catalonia should remain part of the European Union and come from the President of the European Commission until the last speaker and tell them that this is not possible and you are wrong, you are making the ridiculous, Mr President. And the problem is not that you're making a fool of yourself, the problem is that you're making a fool of all Catalans, and many of these Catalans, most of them, 52_per_cent, are not for this adventure of the independent Catalan Republic. So, they're doing the ridiculous thing when they're acting this way. The Government of Spain is not playing with Catalonia, among other questions because Catalonia is part of Spain. This is the first important nuance. And the second – and the second –: because the Government of Spain has shown on repeated occasions in the last few years its sensitivity to the economic problems no longer so alone of the Government of Catalonia, but of the conjunction of small and medium-sized enterprises, of the conjunction of the autonomies that the Generality was not paying its bills, and that it must be through exceptional aids, such as those of the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, eh? , the FLA, and the Supplier Plan, which serves to pay the suppliers of the joints, of the Generality, which do not cover. What kind of government...? Why not explain, Mr Puigdemont, that the Government of Spain is financing the Government of Catalonia its debt at 0_per_cent– at 0_per_cent? Is that less government? Is that less land, less funding at 0_per_cent? Yes, Mr Junqueras; we know that your solution, that your contribution to Catalonia's finances is to put an end to the Catalan economy. We already know that this is his contribution. But I'm telling you that from the People's Party of Catalonia we'll be marking it, politically we'll be marking it, huh? But we are very concerned about this attitude and this situation. Because, Mr. Junqueras and Mr. President, escort, it is not the Government of Spain that came out this week announcing that if Catalonia, that if the Government of Catalonia were to follow with the same direction, the guarantee given before international investors could lower it even further, and go further, under what is, as is said in the castle, the good garbage. So, this week came out, which still some international investors were willing to lower the confidence of the Government of Catalonia from a point of view of international investors. That's not what the People's Party said, that's what the international investors said. And look, I want to end with one last question: the issue of what happened with street terrorism, because it's street terrorism, even though they don't like to listen to it. That the lady... that's exactly what she meant. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Rovira said that now what is being done is to review why there are more democratic criteria at the time of characterization in a process against people on the street. This seems to me to be a genuine lack of respect for the Mosso d'Esquadra and its Convergence companies. To say that now they are reviewing the criteria so that what is applied in the actions is based on more democratic criteria, do not offend me; to me I am offended as a citizen and as a political leader, to whom it is due to his companions, to those responsible for Convergence and Union in his day, who are the ones who were at the head of the Government, of this Government which, according to you, did not apply these criteria, which were democratic, as they will now apply. And, Mr. Rabell, allow me to say it, because it meant me, allow me to say it; say: "The companies that were prosecuted are our companies. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I tell him, listen, I tell him... I don't talk about the absolved; I say about those who are prosecuted. I'm telling you, my friends, they're not. Those who are dedicated to scraping trimmers, cremating urban furniture, destroying everything they find in the street [[Funnel veils]] These...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.48.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.49.0	...these aren't our company.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.50.0	...respect the word tower, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.51.0	...these aren't our company. We are on the side of normal lives, of the citizens who, beyond the discrepancy and criticism, are able to behave without breaking urban furniture and without destroying the protectors of a poor, working, late seven. And our positioning, as it can't be any other way...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.52.0	Mr. García Albiol...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.53.0	...and finally, Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.54.0	It has to end...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.55.0	...it is at the side of those who defend the freedom of all folds, that in this case they were the Squadron Mosses. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.56.0	There's a word from Mr. Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.57.0	Thank you. Because in front of this cliff, every one is set to its height. Well, in response to the President's reply, we'd like to do some brushes, huh? , quick tweezers. One that, as far as the... well, we are glad that there are various groups that have a stake in social policy applications, because we understand that we do not need to be involved, because these requests correspond to a social majority that is the same social majority that has to lead us to independence in this country. The other is the compromise of the President expressed as to the terms, also important, because we think that the terms, the 'times, in politics have their own importance and, more importantly, they lead us away from what could be a process, that is, this process that would never be completed. The transversality in policies, obviously, has already been said by some group here, yes, whenever the transversality is, therefore, irradiating these intentions to all departments and not that the dissolution or that is dissolved in the falls of the departments the political intentions on a matter in concrete. The dialogue with Spain..., beyond the telephone, whether you have called it or not, I would not be more concerned, the truth, I mean, the « encounter is great, it will not come from courtesy, I believe that the dialogue will have to be done as we emerge from this « disagreement, according to the democratic mandate with which we have been endowed in this Parliament. As for the social fracture, the social axis, therefore, that it is a vertebrate axis of the assumptions, delighted to discuss them, enchanted that it is so. And, as for stability, what it said about stability is certainly important, and we also wanted to highlight it in our parliament. We understand a little more, to draw this... because we have to work on it, the goal for us is not the result so alone, we have said, of the agreement, but that it is the construction of an entity with which we have to hold the wills and sensitivities of each one, not so alone as to describe them, but because we understand that they are the reasons for which we can make government action possible. As for parity, we are in a hurry, the truth, President, we are in a very hurry; they are politicizing and willing against patriarchy, and that the woman is not relegated one more day. That's why we won't get tired of being blunt in this case. And, as for the fact that we appreciate asking for the moon, so, yes, we did: we don't ask for the moon as to the requests of the rock plan, we think that... – I won't repeat it – we think that they are urgent requests, necessary and possible, and that they also have to see with instability. As for the high responsibility, if it is new the high responsibility, it is obviously new in this Parliament, but not at every moment and in the compromise we have acquired before the people; and, in fact, for the CUP getting the moon is a utopia in which we guide each day. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.58.0	The word has the illustrious lady Marta Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.59.0	Thank you, President. To answer some of the things that have been said here. I said, in no case, that we have competition in international relations, in no case; and, if not, I repeat the intervention. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I didn't. I said that we have the skills that are reflected in Article 193 and later of the Statute of Autonomy. That the name doesn't do the thing, if we want to go to outer action, and we won't talk about outer matters. Because the external aspects to which we refer do not imply an external inaction, it would only be lacking; therefore, let us give them external action. The problem that you have is the interests that we are planning, because these interests cannot be any more than the interests that reflect the democratic mandate that we have on the table today. And so it will be. But this is a confrontation, a controversy, worthy of the democratic game. Therefore, we will do external action – and so much! – and we will do so, because we will put the institution, in this case with everything that is at hand and at the disposal of the external action department, in favor of this democratic mandate. That's the problem they have. I..., would like it to be asked, and to look into it – there are many studies in the Generality to this effect, and there are also in other autonomous communities, can you look at it – which is: what are these external offices of the Generality returning to outside? And what's the cost? What cost and what return – what cost and what return. Because then, if you want to defend Catalonia's interests at the economic level, at the social level, at the progress level, you will also defend these foreign offices. What cost and what return – it's a healthy exercise. A lot of things have been said, too, about whether we are going to negotiate a fiscal pact, if... I have a preja-vu here, I have a screen in white and black almost, because 2011 in this Parliament, where Citizens also had a parliamentary group, has already debated whether it was going as an institution or as institutions of the Generality to negotiate a new fiscal pact, just and worthy. Where was 2011? What did you vote for in 2011? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And as long as it's voted 2011! And that led to a few new elections. And that certainly caused the new political context that we are living in our country, that so many people have come to the conclusion of this indignity and lack of justice that we have towards the financial contributions, the financial situation of the Generalitat, that it is the one that must provide social services to our country, that now defends independence, directly, because in the fiscal pact they closed the door to the hills, like so many other times. We were you? They were here, up there, they had three seats and they voted no. And they were the only ones who voted no, because there were other parties that were abstaining. The only ones, together with Solidarity for Independence, who had come to the conclusion, long before we, who would say no. They're going to be the only ones who're going to vote no. So, listen to me, we can talk about it because I think the government's will is to talk about it and the first thing he'll do is call all the parliamentary groups, explain what the generality's financial situation is. So much so that we can talk about it! And if we share the situation of analysis, which is asphyxiation, then, look, we may come to some agreement and everything, to defend the interests of the citizens of Catalonia, of everyone, of the independenceists and of those who are not – of everyone. Maybe, at least, we'll hear each other, but we need to share the situation analysis. And with this connection to what Mr Garcia Albiol gave us: it seems to me absolutely indignant that he should tell us – let him tell us – « at zero cost, to zero interest, that we receive the money of the FLA. It seems to me absolutely indignant, politically, that someone is going to make this statement here, from the Parliament's Faristol: the interests paid for the FLA three years ago, which cost – which cost – to the citizen of Catalonia, today rise to 1,900_million euros – 1,900_million euros – in three years to pay interest on a money that we have already paid another time. Double splint – double splint – double, double – double. [[Greetings.]] 2015–2015 – we have paid 400_million euros for our own money, to make a difference after the social crisis in our country. You're the one who seems indignant, really. And three times when, on top of that, these transfers from the FLA turn out that, when they have to come to Catalonia they go so little by little, so much that they arrive late. Because then the generality has to go around and pay more interest, not the FLA, out of the FLA and everything. It seems indignant– it seems indignant, it seems indignant. Of course, 1,900_million euros is what we have paid interest for money that we could devote directly to covering social expenses to our country, social investments to our country, and 1,900_euro is what it is worth, what it costs, the Social Welfare Department, for example. I don't know... I, these claims that end up affecting the social services, the schools, the hospitals of all the citizens who live in Catalonia, all of them, I think they don't deserve the citizens who with their fiscal effort try to live decently in our country. And it's clear to you, too, that I mean... that you're out here and you're telling me and I'm trying to leave the generality and its public servants unsecured and unprotected... [[Funnel veils]] "Yes," he said, "he said it, and he signaled directly to me," I also seem indignant. Look, there hasn't been a change in policy criteria because the review isn't about political opportunity criteria, the review is about having jurisprudence criteria in hand – in hand – which you won't do, which you, from the Spanish government, won't do. It's more... you're unable to review any of the jurisprudence, more quickly to warn European or international courts that, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.60.0	Mrs. Rovira, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.61.0	...please apply them. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.62.0	The fifth item on the agenda is the Commissions' resolution proposal. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of parliamentary committees]] [[252-00001/11]] In accordance with Rule 59.1 of the Rules of Procedure, it is for the House to agree by an absolute majority on the name and scope of the legislative committees proposed by the Bureau and the Board of Spokespersons. Thus, Rule 62.1 of the Rules states that the Ple of Parliament may address the creation of specific commissions. Let us therefore move on to the motion for a resolution on the creation of commissions, which was discussed at the last meeting of the Board of Portaveus. As the proposal and the determination of the scope of the committees has been published in the plenary file, I would like to inform the second secretary, Mr. David Pérez, that I read the names of the different committees.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.63.0	Thank you, President. According to the letter submitted, entered in the register with number 3,198, signed for all parliamentary groups, it is created, from legislative commissions: the Commission of Governance, Public Administrations and Habitatge; the Commission of Institutional Affairs; the Commission of Economy and History; the Commission of External Action and Cooperation; Institutional Relations and Transparency; the Commission of Education; the Health Commission; the Commission of Interior; the Commission of Territories; the Committee of Culture; the Commission of Justice; the Commission of Treball; the Commission of Social Affairs and Families; the Commission of Enterprise and Knowledge; the Committee of Agriculture, Ramaderia and Food Welfare; the Commission of Social Affairs and Families; the Commission of Enterprise and Knowledge. With specific committees and follow-up committees there would be the People's Equality Commission, the Youth Policy Commission, the Children's Commission and the Life Security Commission; also, a study committee that would be the Specific Commission for the Study of Measures to Fight Corruption and for Democratic Regeneration. And so, according to the letter entered in the register with number 3,199 and signed, in this case, for the parliamentary groups of Junts for the Yes, of Catalonia Yes it is Pot and of the CUP - Constituent Creed is created, present as attached to the previous document the creation of a commission of study of the constituent process.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.64.0	As there was no consensus on the creation of all committees, we would give a speaking time, for a maximum of five minutes, to the parliamentary groups that are asking for it. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.65.0	We're asking for intervention in this apartment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.66.0	All right, then. Therefore, the word has the illustrious Lord Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.67.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen..., well, in the few five_minutes we have to present and evaluate the various committees in which parliamentary work is to be articulated in this legislature, for I shall refer to four or five points in a short way. The first thing is to say that the CAI, which is this Commission of Institutional Affers, which was the one that, let's say, amalgamated the main subjects that are susceptible to control of the government action, that more powerful commission, which was normally chaired by the main opposition party, in this legislature, we do not know very well why, has gone into three different commissions. Topics have been brought to governance, which will lead to electoral processes, and to housing, which we would have liked to have been in the CAI; the Foreign Action Commission will, in turn, carry other topics and what the CAI will be, therefore, will not be able to understand this, which makes us think that when Citizens accede to the post of leaders of the opposition is when the main of the commission, the CAI, is denatured. Because you are not, I am afraid, accustomed to having a firm opposition, and proof of that is that the one who was head of the opposition in the previous legislature is now vice president of his government, as government of Democratic Convergence of Catalonia and as Republican Left. We must also appreciate what you have contributed, have merged work, social matters and family into one department, which here in this Parliament, I believe, with good judgment, we have decided to separate work, and as Inés Arrimadas has already indicated, we believe it deserved sufficient importance to be marked to the council, the department, by a specific committee, since work is the creation of wealth, and also a committee of environment and sustainability, external action. We have promoted from Citizens the Commission for the Study of Combating Corruption and Democratic Regeneration. We must thank all the political parties that have joined this initiative. We believe that being the second concern of the citizenry we could not remain in profile in this legislature when the scandals of collecting commissions for public works are alive, and we must take care of what measures we can take in the administration and what measures in the world of the enterprise to definitively eradicate these kinds of problems. As for the commission of the constituent process, of the process they constitute, well, here we have opposed frontally to this commission being articulated in Parliament, no matter how much it is a committee of study. Because this commission of what is going to be dealt with is a kind of covert constitutional presentation, and, of course, when we are in a parliament that has certain powers, that there is a statutory amendment commission, then it would go into logic; but that there is something that goes beyond the Statute itself, so it does not seem to us to be logical. And we disagree with this, what you say, of the mandate..., that you with this set in motion a mandate. Look, there's a 52_percent of the Catalan population that doesn't support that mandate from that constituent process that you want to surpass. All the parties that are gathered here today, except the CUP and Ciutadans, which in 2006 we were not in this chamber, agreed by drafting the Statute of autonomy that required two_thirds of the chamber to reform the Statute. And you disobey that; with half of it scratched, with this half of the Chamber, you intend not only not to change the Statute, but to skip it directly and make a new constitution. It is clear that it lacks all legitimacy and that it is a waste of time that parliamentary efforts are devoted to this and not to reducing waiting lists, to dealing with unemployment, to dependence, to improving education..., and that we are spending the energies of this Parliament on something that amounts to fraud for 52 % of the Catalan population. The 100_per_cent of the Catalan population is due to the decrease in unemployment, the waiting lists..., for everything; that does affect us all. This other does not affect us all. We will therefore call for a separate vote and vote against this committee proposed by some members of this House.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.68.0	It has the parable the illustrious lady Eva Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.69.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, this point was usually approved by consensus, but this legislature, which is exceptional, therefore, also raises debate between Members and Members. After months of Parliament's paralysis, we must congratulate ourselves on the fact that today we seem to be doing this exit gun and that the week you see, after the approval of the committees today and the constitution of the week you see, so we can start doing the work that concerns us as Members and Members and be useful at the conjunction of the citizenry. My parliamentary group wants to discuss six questions about the design and architecture of the committees that we have agreed between all the spokespersons, which we believe are of relevance. First place, the name. It is a parliament, a legislature, which makes fifteen legislative commissions – which are many, but which are necessary – and four specific commissions. We had an interest, and so we have agreed all the spokespersons, that you are not left without debate about substance, that all the oral questions are answered by the advisors, that all the motions for resolutions – that there are many who have come to the committee hours – can have space for the debate, for the debate and for the vote. And we therefore believe that these fifteen legislative committees should allow us not to debate whether we are staying, and I think we should not congratulate ourselves. There is one issue that..., while we have won with the fact that every councillor, every councillor, will have a legislative committee reference, and that is good for straightening Parliament's work, because, if not, there was a distortion with the calendars and agendas "pressed by the councillors, yes it is certain that the government's design, that sometimes, much as the president has explained to us, we have not just heard the fit of some competition in some councillors..., this is also reflected in the design of the areas of competence of the legislative committees. Now the citizens' spokesman was commenting on it, but it is certain that the CAI, as we have known so far, is empty, empty enough to contain it; that Habitatge is strange that he is in Governance – we have even commented on it to the spokesman of the groups that support the Government – or that relations with Parliament are in the Department of Foreign Relations. So, all this, which is what's in the government, it also seems strange, but it's what we have to have a counselor for each legislative committee. I do want to fill in the autonomy that this institution exercises at the time of designing the commissions. And a subject that we have criticized, which is this macro-counsellory that we have, where we are afraid of the SOC, there are the themes of dependency, the themes of families, the themes of childhood, which is very big and which we believe has a lot of focus on the opposition, especially on control of the government..., so we have made two legislative commissions. I think it is a good decision, as in the case of Medi Ambient, which has also been called for by a couple of parliamentary groups and has also been accepted. And, therefore, I also believe that we will do a good job with these two commissions. There's another question, the fourth, that I wanted to move them, that you have to see with Childhood. Childhood is a commission that has constituted the last legislature, that is to follow, and that this legislature, from the zero minute, therefore, we have it as the follow-up commission, and I think we must also congratulate each other. Here you will need to think that perhaps there are other subjects that are very cross-cutting, with different councils, and that maybe at the length of the legislature we should also create some other commission of these follow-up. I would also like to put in full the Commission's agreement, in the last few hours, for the Study of Measures to Fight Corruption, where we will follow up on the conclusions of the committee of the last parliamentary meeting to fight corruption, but it will also allow us to address issues that are in the newspapers lately, and later every day, which have to do with the financing of the parties and foundations that are linked to them. And lastly, and the minute I'm left, I mean... all the committees would vote in bloc, except one, because there was one that didn't generate consensus in all the groups. And it is one that does not respond to the general interest of all citizens, but rather that responds to the interest, in electoral programs, of some options that are presented in this Parliament. The same president said to his intervention, that the aim of this government is to complete the process and bring Catalonia to the door of a new state, and, as this cannot be done with a legislative commission, they have proposed, some groups, to launch a study commission that will talk about this, this process constitute and this democratic mandate of 27 September. My group does not share this democratic mandate, nor does it believe that the solution to Catalonia is a Catalan constitution, and that is why the president of my group, Miquel Iceta, said so a moment ago. We have precedents in this Parliament; the Committee on the Right to Decide, therefore, decided very little, because it did not come to any conclusion. And, therefore, we also ask, President, for a separate vote, because we will vote against the creation of this committee. I'm done. MPs and MPs, let's start the job. I think it's up to us to approve commissions, start working and be useful, which is what we're dealing with as Members of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.70.0	The word has the illustrious Lord Joan Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.71.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my intervention, on behalf of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, by making a positive recognition of what the exercise of political autonomy that this Parliament does in relation to the execution entails. I could have moved here a proposal for committees that mimic only the structure of the execution, and the Parliament has decided to exercise its political autonomy, and that is good news. It has done so, accepting the proposal made by our group and which has been agreed by everyone, to create the Employment Commission and the Environment Commission, specifically for the same reasons that our company Lluís Rabell explained a moment ago and to try, to the extent possible, to mitigate the negative impact that, in our view, there will be no such two councils. Let us think of its scope, of trying to build spaces not only of social control, of parliamentary control, but also of legislative initiative, that allow to situate the occupation, the sustainability and the environment in the center of the political action of this Parliament. Second of all, what I wanted to talk to you about is pretty obvious. Our group has signed the proposal to set up a committee which we call 'proceedings'. They ask very well all the groups in the chamber to see exactly the areas in which it is laid and to take note of the advice given by journalist Carles Puigdemont to deputy Miquel Iceta: you are not fixed in the headlines, you are fixed in what they say the original fonts, which are from this Parliament, about the areas of this committee. This is not the process commission for independence, nor is it the process commission for the federal state. We believe – at least this is the case for us – that it has a much broader vocation and that above all it has the vocation of being a space of finding and dialog. We have proposed this because for us the process is, for Catalonia Yes, it is Pot the process is not in itself, the portavem in our program. But it is based on an evidence that today I believe that you have a lot of people in Catalan society and in Spain: it is that we are ahead of what we could call the exhaustion of the socio-economic, environmental, and political model of the 1978 Transition. And this exhaustion requires the political initiative to set up new foundations; not only in the state model: also and functionally – and this is our vocation, to bring it to this commission – of the society model. We want to debate whether it is normal for us to continue with forms of political participation in which, when the citizens give their vote to some government, this government, or some of these governments, I regard it as a blank cheque. We want to put forward models of political sovereignty of the citizens that allow this mandate to be reversed; for example, discussing the possibility of revoking references. We want to discuss whether it is normal that this society does not make it clear that sanitation and education are right and not merchandise, and, therefore, policies need to be addressed in this sense. We want to discuss whether environmental policies are a disaster, as some say, for development or are the best guarantee of this sustainable development. All these are the aspects that we also want to put on this procedural committee. I insist on that. We want – and we are responsible for the terms in which it is proposed in this Parliament – to set up certain areas and contents that are open to the dialogue – at least it is our vocation, and I hope that all the members who propose it – because we are deeply convinced that in the terms in which this committee is set up it can be an area in which we put into practice what is politics, which is the combination and the intelligent balance between conflict and dialogue and agreements. And this, at least when we hear it, is an opportunity to do it. From this point of view, we are aware that Catalonia Yes, it is We may have risked politically that we are reading from this committee and that we are saying: "You are already with this block or you are in the other one. Unfortunately, this report is impossible to fight; we will prove it with our facts. It therefore requires all the groups in the chamber, who already know that they have decided to vote at these times, but that above all it is very receptive to their position around their participation or not in this committee. I honestly believe that until the parties prove otherwise, this commission is set up from the will of dialogue and of seeking bridges, and it would be incomprehensible for anyone to know it before it is proved otherwise. From this perspective I renounce to convince who has a stationary position in relation to all these things; I renounce to convince, a little, Citizens and the People's Party, how with this immobilism. But let me from the friendship that joins me with many of you tell Miquel, the PSC's company, that you, who have worked so hard to generate a culture of dialogue, that you have practiced it so much, and I agree, that so much you have done... I understand what Miquel says, I understand what Eva Granados says: the warm cat, from the leaking water. I know that the experience of the previous legislature, with the issue of the Commission for the Right to Decide, was very hard; this feeling that some manipulated the initial objectives and posed the partisan servant of his concept of politics was very hard for some. But now we're in another legislature, at another time, and we need to give a new opportunity. You'll tell us naive; they tell us so many naive people that we don't care anymore. It is an opportunity to bet for the dialog, and I ask you, please – please – to participate all in this commission. Time to prove that some have not done the calling with which it is planted, that it is generating a dialog space, will no longer have; but let's not kill it until you start working. We've got an exclusive. I wouldn't have heard that who talked to me today about the dial – and this is Miquel's favorite word; I already know he's not here, but like he knows everything, I'm sure he's listening to it at some point; if not, you'll say it already – so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.72.0	Mr. Coscubila, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.73.0	... – I finish, I finish – that the person who most, and with the most authority possibly, or at least with the authority recognized for everyone, today has asked for dialogue, dialogue and dialogue, when he offers himself a space to establish dialogue and complicity in something as important as a process constitute, to set up new socio-economic, environmental, political bases for Catalan society, he renounced to participate in this dialogue from the first moment. I hope, at least to you, I've convinced you. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.74.0	There's a word from Mr. Enric Millo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.75.0	Thank you, President. Many honourable Presidents, members of the Government, Members, Members, I believe that there is a first word of praise for everyone, and it is that, finally, after a few months of inactivity, this Parliament will start to walk – it will start to walk – and it will set aside its legislative, study, follow-up committees, and I think it is good news, honestly I say. Seventeen legislative committees, well, fifteen more than that of the Rules; we had fourteen of them, in the previous mandate, which means that there will be more work for everyone. I also welcome the fact that, since Parliament, we have been able to make a composition of commissions that are not mimetically suited to what the structure of the Government is, but that it also allows us to work in a more concrete way on some aspects that deserve a differentiated treatment, such as the case of work, occupation and sustainability. We will also create four specific, follow-up committees, which all seem necessary to us: the Commission of Equality, the Commission of Youth, the Commission of Childhood and the Commission of Life Security; follow-up committees, as I say, which are necessary. It is also a commission that we will create today, specific, of study, also necessary, which is the Commission for Measures to Fight Corruption. An important element, and I also congratulate myself, together with the rest of the spokesman, for having, therefore, reached this agreement to give support to the creation of this commission, which would also be necessary. But you will understand that you spend a little more time with that committee that you want to create today and that in our hearing it is unnecessary. And here's where we're convinced that it's created..., it's made, better said, a mistake, if it finally ended up creating, as he points out, they already listened to the members of Catalonia Yes, it's Pot, but they also know who is the will of the majority group, Together for the Yes, and the CUP. And I'm referring to this commission that you push today, that I call the commission of the breakup. You may not like the title, but a commission that intends to pull forward an initiative, a full route that is outside the normal mark, outside the existing legality, outside the Constitution and outside the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy, which is its objective, is a commission for the breakup. We will vote against the creation of this commission for three reasons, and I will explain myself: the first, because I understand that it is an anti-democratic fraud and a deception; the second, because it is an instrument that only serves to generate conflict and social confrontation, and the third, because we understand that 52_percent of Catalan voters deserve to make their voice heard. You have given, in the first..., in the beginning of this legislature, the idea that would create a legislative commission on the process constitute and the national transition, but in the last minute give a shot of steering, march back and say no, that it will not be legislative, but it will be a specific commission, of study. I see that they are, knowing perfectly well that to develop the content of the resolution of 9 November cancelled by the Constitutional Court you will be committing an illegality that would place you outside the normal market, and that would obviously imply the automatic suspension of this commission, you take a flying shot, you apparently walk away and you create a study commission. They take advantage of it to incorporate those who are embolized, those who are entangled. Disappear from the object of the commission that you initially presented..., disappears the development of the democratic mandate to which you always refer – and which is another fraud – of 27 September, and also disappears that phrase, in the scope of the commission's action, which spoke of the formulas of legal transition. I imagine that it is the conditions that lay those, to whom we obviously recognize the right they need to be deceived, that is a right that everyone has, but the question that I ask is, Who else do they want to deceive? – who else do they want to fool? It will not be legislative, but it will have as its object to prepare everything that is necessary to pull forward this full road that is out of legality. And what is this commission for when we hear it? So for this: to generate conflict and confrontation, instead of ensuring stability and progress, which is what we need. Catalonia, in our view, needs a government that guarantees economic and social stability and progress, that works for the interest of all Catalans, and not that it is dedicated to generating problems where there are no. But what you propose is this: generate conflict and confrontation to divide and break society. This is, surely – and I make a prognosis a little risky – the commission to which they will devote more hours. Someone told me that they want to gather her every divender. They will not gather each other's commissions related to occupation, work, health, education..., no, these will gather from time to time, because it is not the objective; the objective is this, and this will certainly be, as in bad news, the most work will give. The Parliament, in my view, must be a working group in the right place, but you want to turn it into a working group in the right place in order to dialogue and solve the problems that we have, only, as an instrument for conflict and confrontation. We cannot accept it; we will not accept it. And, before this proposal, there are only three possible positions – and with this I will end. There are only three possible options. The first is to vote in favour. Obviously, to vote in favour is to bet on the breakup; to vote in favour of the breakup commission is to bet on the breakup and confrontation, is to abandon the path of the dialog and deepen the division between Catalans and break the society; it is to impose the will of the 48_per_cent of voters who want segregation. There's another second option, which is resignation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.76.0	Mr. Millo, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.77.0	I'm done. Those who raise a passive opposition. And a passive opposition is resigning, it's voting against but passively, giving up making opposition. To give up being present is to look at another band, to give up land to the one who wants the breakup and to stay in ambiguity, is, in short, not to mull. And, finally, there's a third option, which is what we practice, which is the defense of coexistence. To actively oppose the commission of the break is to bet on coexistence; to actively oppose the break is to defend individual freedoms and equality between all Catalans; to actively oppose the break is to defend democracy and the state of law. That's why we, the popular Catalans, know that they are the voice that will defend the majority will of 52_percent of voters who want to be Catalans without being Spanish, and that's why we'll oppose, face and leave no free space at a thousand...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.78.0	Mr. Millo, it's been five minutes, and it's not set.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.79.0	...for those who want to break up and divide our society. Many thanks for your kindness, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.80.0	It has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the CUP... and Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.81.0	Good morning. I think I'll be talking about a lot of fraud all along, according to Mr. Millo. I prefer..., or if we mean to "comply with it, and complete the electoral promises, we will disappoint them during these divided times as needed. There are no others who commit tax fraud and live so calmly. Today, in total, there are twenty-six committees: fifteen more legislative committees, more follow-up committees, more study committees, more creations per law. So, we need to give a little thought: the Parliament of Catalonia can be converted into the assembly of delegates for the society in which we debate, money for movements, for people, to respond to the needs, to the debate of the street, to the longings, or the Parliament can be converted into a bureaucratic instrument that lives from scratch to people and a species of competition to see who presents more things. This is why we are very clear and we want to remember – before compañero Joan Garriga said it and we have repeated the times that have been needed – the bases on which we face this legislature: the disconnection agenda with the State; the configuration of the process is, and the essential and never sufficient social rescue measures. And that's why we understand that all these commissions have to respect them and they have to get old because these bases are complete, and that's why we look at all these commissions with the will that the huge number of jobs that will carry us don't make us forget what we've bought with Catalan society. And it is that today we are living a paradox, a paradox more than all of this long and long process: those who systematically deny the existence of a clear will of the people of Catalonia place at the center of the debate of the creation of commissions the commission of the process constitute, a commission of study to respond to an existing social reality. Denying it in here, between these walls, it won't make the movement disappear, it won't wait. As everyone knows, the CUP - Creed We have always aspired to go face-to-face, not to take away the debates that sack and sack the foundations of a legal and perverse political framework, which is the fruit of the pact of 78 among the elites. For this reason and in order to respond clearly to the mandate of 27 September and to the declaration adopted in this Chamber on 9 November, we want you to create a legislative committee that gives the necessary rank to the construction of the Catalan Republic or to the debate that can be addressed to define the model of country and society that we have to build among all. Despite this, we have also understood from the first moment the need to be inclusive, to approach it also with all those people who still believe that the change to the State is possible. On 9 November, in the debate on the approved declaration, we said that we had hoped to find ourselves, and today we find ourselves to facilitate the Commission of Study on the Constituent Process, which, indelibly, we all agree that we must begin. Let us, however, ask ourselves: Until we have to wait for some to see that the political will, translated into a parliamentary arithmetic at the Congress of Deputies, is necessary for the right to decide and denies us the political ability to initiate a process that is and popular to define us political and legal marks? For the moment, we follow the table, talk, debate, listen and learn. But no one is relaxed, the compromise to push three new bills will not go away. The countdown has already begun, and before the term "we" has ended and we give an answer. For us, the CUP - Constituent Creed, today we approve twenty-six commissions that will accompany us in the building divisions of the Catalan Republic. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.82.0	The word has the illustrious lady Marta Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.83.0	Thank you, President. Well, very quickly, to explain, as we were asked to make a proposal, what were the criteria that we used to present this proposal, as they did not explain themselves and some were referred to throughout the debate, in this room, in the morning. The criteria for making a proposal respect the legislative commissions was the decree of the scope, which was approved by the Government of the Generality. It seemed to us that it was a good way to follow up, control and, at last, a political impulse that the legislative commissions of the Parliament of Catalonia reflected in the spheres of government of the departments of the Generality. From here, as the majority group asked us to make a proposal, we made a proposal based on these criteria, the environmental decrees. Then, at the meeting that we had all folds, the spokespersons were sensitive to certain observations that were placed on the table. The first observation came from Ciutadans, didn't it? , and it makes clear the debate that we have had on whether external action or external matters; the Commission in Parliament will say 'external action and cooperation', and as long as it does, and we will talk about everything that is going to be done to the Government as well. The name doesn't do the thing, we've said it before. Therefore, we are willing to debate everything, to talk to it all and to make Parliament's groups do their job, which is democracy. The second change came for observation on the part of..., if I do not recall badly, the PSC, Catalonia Yes it is Pot, that it seemed that the legislative commission that made reference to the Department of Social Affairs, Work and Families was extensive and that it could not give follow-up to the work that is ugly from the government and, therefore, we assumed, with this good criteria, to create a commission of work, independent, separate, autonomous, that can debate over all the reps that leave us on the table the situation of the country respects the work and occupation. The third new committee, which we did not propose, was the Environment and Sustainability Committee, also taking into account the observation that many groups were made to us over the table that it would be good for the Parliament of Catalonia to have a committee that in an individualised and autonomous way refers to all aspects of the environment that could, in the end, derive from the own parliamentary initiative or from different government departments, and so we ended up assuming it. Regarding the discussion of the CAI, tell them also that our first proposal, when we put the proposals of the legislative commissions on the table, to look at the decree of the government's spheres..., we were told that it happened that the spokesman Carlos Carrizosa explained; it seemed that the CAI lost many sub-assemblies or areas that had traditionally been held in this Parliament, until we left the Committee on Institutional Affairs as was and created the Committee on Governance, Public Administrations and Habitatage, a commission that joined with the department corresponding to the government, but that prevails, that it had, from the CAI, all those areas that refer to public administrations, above all from the administration. I'm sensitive to this, too, and Carlos Carrizosa and the rest of the spokespersons are witnesses, we offered to change the criteria. In other words, it seemed to us that the commission that might be larger, it was more extensive than the one of Governance, Public Administrations and Habitatge, was named the "first commission, the CAI". We didn't have any kind of inconvenience. Finally, there was no agreement on respect, and we left the committee proposal as it is today. But I like the fact that it is also explained: we have no problem that the Committee on Institutional Affairs has appointed itself as the "presidency committee" and that it refers only to those areas which the government decree attributed to the Presidency Department. That said, I don't know if I can hear what Carlos Carrizosa has publicly said here that you no longer want to preside over the first committee. If that's the case, there'll be more opposition groups than I understand they'll want to do, or we'll all decide who presides over it. And if you want to preside over another, if you have the ability to tell us - I'm sure we'll agree. Because here no one is looking – no one is looking – for the opposition, or the first opposition group, to do their job. We will defend every time all groups in Parliament do the work that surrounds them, plus the first opposition group. Therefore, I would also like to make it clear. I think I can talk about everything. This tradition that the first opposition group chairing the CAI is an unwritten tradition in Parliament, which is agreed by parliamentary groups since 2006. And so, next week, when we talk about how we distribute all our commissions, you can put everything back on the table, no doubt. With respect to what... I will only refer to what Mr. Enric Millo of the Constituent Procedure Commission said, which was a flying shot and a backtrack. Let no one suffer, let us say, that we have a mandate and want to go to the end. On the contrary: it is opening the doors because we follow many more than we can circulate along a path..., which seems to us the way, as now said the Eulàlia Regant, to take over the citizens, the citizenship of this country, to decide in which country they want to live. Thank you very much. [[Applauds in a hemicicle sector.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.84.0	As a separate vote has been requested on the proposal for the establishment of the Constituent Procedure Study Commission, we will vote in the first place on all the other bulk committees. I'm calling a vote. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.85.0	Madam President, to clarify. Now we're voting the full share of all commissions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.86.0	Now we are voting for all the committees – all of them – minus the Commission of Studies on the Constituent Process, which we will vote for later. Okay?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.87.0	Perfect, thank you. Clear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.88.0	Now yes, the vote begins. With the result of the vote, the creation of these committees has been approved – of all parliamentary committees other than that of the Constituent Procedure –, and has been approved by 128 votes in favour, 0 abstentions and also 0 negative votes. Next, we vote on the proposal for the creation of the Constituent Procedure Study Commission. The vote begins. The creation of this committee was also approved, with 80 votes in favour and 51 against. And now we suspend the session until... [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Four-quarters. [[Widow's remorse.]] Four-quarters. And we're all on time, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.89.0	It's part of the session. [[Pause.]] [[Proposal for a resolution setting up a specific study committee on industrial policies in the automotive sector]] [[252-0002/11]] It is the sitting with the sixth item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution creating a specific committee to study industrial policies in the automotive sector. Since this motion for a resolution has been submitted jointly for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, yes, it is possible, in the first place, to proceed with the intervention of the two groups proposing so that they can present the motion for a resolution. In the first place, has the parable the illustrious lady Alicia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.90.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Members and Members, I would like to greet and extend a cordial greeting from here to the representatives of the Commissions and the UGT of the industry sector, who have come to accompany us today in this plenary, in this – let us hope – approval of this committee, which seems to me to be – to the groups, at least, proposers – and therefore a need and a priority for this own legislature. Mirin, this proposal comes from a crisis that we found all September to the Volkswagen group, which affected the SEAT, which affected the SEAT plant of Martorell, one of the most important plants of industrial policy in Catalonia, which has more workers and which really, therefore, generates a high occupation in our country. We were really surprised that the government, at those times in operation, reacted late in this crisis, reacted late, it took almost a_me to find itself with the unions to open up – and with the business –, so what was happening, what was going on with the future investments that had been bought and, therefore, we, concerned about the situation, we found ourselves with the representatives of the workers of Seat to see what was the situation, as we could help them overcome this situation, as we at least pressurized because the government is set to work as it had done, for example, in a much faster way, the president of the Government of Navarre, for example, no? Well, we met with them, the president of our group, Miquel Iceta, our spokesman, and at this meeting some proposals came up. One was to create an urgent working group, which we know only met once until today, and a committee that you are trying to go a little further than the specific crisis situation of the Volkswagen group, that is, the SEAT, which was talking about the car in Catalonia. And why the car? So, look, because automotive is one of the world's leading sectors of the economy, not just in Catalonia, it's world-wide, it's a strategic sector. In the times when we're in crisis, so also worldwide, as you know, it's a sector, the sector that's betting on research and development, it's one of the sectors that's betting on added value. Here, concretely in Catalonia, it generates 10_percent of the total trade of the industrial sector, has 100_000 direct places of work, almost 230,000 if we count the indirects and, more than that, an ample supply of manufacturers, of sub-ministrators to the sector and, therefore, to us seems that in industrial policy caldria not only see as the sector is, but also to lay backs of the future. Because it is true, Catalonia has a very powerful ecosystem for what it does to the automotive industry and we believe that we can give it, so around it, shelter it with industrial policies that the reinforcement, that the reinforcement so that we do not have a crisis that allows us to destroy jobs, as has happened in the past time in the industrial sector. And I said, and we're a little skeptical. And it's true that the government that just presented us today isn't the government we had a few months ago, but the outgoing government, let's just say, was a government that gambled a little for the industry. There was civil society, so escorted for a few things, that it approved a pact for industry, with one hundred and thirty-eight concrete proposals. The government did not do so in any case; it approved an industrial strategy without a timetable, without some actions, without a presumption, which is important at the time of believing in policies and, therefore, it seemed to us that, before a scepticism that we have seen in the industrial policy of the country, calia – or we believe it to be – therefore, creating this committee of study on a sector, automotive, which is constantly changing. And it is, among other things, because there is a strong global competence in this area, too; because the application, the injection of information technologies, not new technologies, of innovation, is, therefore, very important in this sector and is transforming it, and we see it, for example, in proposals to Catalonia such as the electric vehicle or the hybrid vehicle, isn't it? Therefore, there are changes that are transforming the sector and that to us it seems that, with the ecosystem that we have here, with important centres of vocational training like that which was opened to Martorell ; as a powerful cluster of entrepreneurs in the automotive sector; as search groups; as clearly established companies like SEAT or Nissan, we believe that there is work here to ensure jobs, to guarantee this industry that has so much potential for our country. Therefore, we make this proposal, to create this committee, we want to give it a term, which is a year, is to say, not to speak without any kind of result, but to find conclusions in a year. To try, therefore, to put thread to the needle in a sector that is strategic, that we want to follow it and, above all, we want to strengthen it, we want to do it, therefore, even more important for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.91.0	The word has the illustrious Lord Joan Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.92.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, good midday. I don't think they've got 15 seconds to explain the importance of the automotive sector in Catalonia. It is not just a quantitative import, in terms of gross domestic product, volume of trade, enterprises and workers involved; it is a qualitative import, in function, basically, of some parameters. The automotive sector, many other sectors, is a sector which, in a positive sense, has a lot of influence. The medium size of businesses, 380 businesses in Catalonia, is more of a medium-sized business type, which is not bad for us. For its technological diffusion, this sector..., take into account that you approximately manage some five hundred different types of technology, that you have a great ability to reach other sectors and to pour innovations from the technological point of view, and also – it is worth saying – for an important issue for Catalonia, which is the subject of its territorial extension; this is also territorial order. It is true that it is very concentrated in the metropolitan area, the first metropolitan crown of Barcelona, but we have important companies: MetalBages and Denso al Bages, in central Catalonia; we have the Lear of Valls; we have Teixidó, a mixed company, but well, in Riudecols, at the Baix Camp; we have Robert Bosch, at Penedès; we have the Mahle at the Conca de Barberà; we have Hutchinson, in Palamós..., I mean, which helps a lot at this territorial extension. But, well, this is not a novelty, why are we presenting this proposal, the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Catalonia and Catalonia? Apart from the reasons given by the company Alicia Romero, I wanted to add some more: In the next five years they will produce, in the automotive sector worldwide, more changes, transcendent changes, than have occurred in the last fifty years, and this is a global consensus. Change in relation to the type of products, i.e., in relation to both hybrid electric cars, autonomous cars, i.e., without a driver, car connected to cities and their surroundings. Also during these five years, which is calculated, there will be changes in technological issues, especially affecting the component industry, which is an important industry, it is not only the two companies, Nissan and SEAT, which affect, it is this volume, which has 70_percent of the total value of the vehicle and which in Catalonia is very important. It's settled that almost all the fish in the car are reinventing themselves at these times. Change, too, in the uses of the vehicle and, above all, those that affect the relationship between customers and businesses. Soon we'll see people, businesses, who are no longer vehicle salesmen with the property of mobility managers. All these changes will be produced within five years. In summary, the cards of the automotive sector are being redistributed worldwide and it is not guaranteed that in this new distribution of cards, which we now have, Catalonia can continue to maintain them. And proof of that knows a few countries. Until recently France and Italy were on the list of the first two countries producers, manufacturers and automakers; today they are no longer there. Spanish, and within Catalonia, is kept in this plantation. But this is not written, there is no certainty and, therefore, we must be able to anticipate ourselves to this truth. And it is a reality in which it is certain that the big decisions will be taken by multinational corporations and by us, unfortunately, we do not have any, neither Spain nor Catalonia. But that doesn't mean that political power can't do anything. I can do the European Union, I can do the Spanish State and I can and I have to do Catalonia. From here on, it takes them all and especially to the affected councillors, Counselor of Work and Occupation... – well, this, this is so long – that it has all the responsibilities of the country, practically, located at its councillor, and also with the Councillor of Enterprise, which has already been justified, he said that he wanted to be here but can not, we understand it perfectly, ask them that above all you do what Councillor Felipe Puig did to us a few months ago, when, before the theme of Valeo and the involvement of the workers, his answer was: "If Valeo wants to go, he will go, we pose ourselves as we pose. So, no, this is the only one who can't make a government. Fortunately, the workers and the unions did not do so, and today we have a situation that is not finally resolved, but we have a chance to give continuity to the Valeo factory, possibly with other activities, with another capital, but with continuity on a good part of the work places. That's what we put them up. From this point of view, the Catalan Government must be very clear about what will happen in the key sector of our country's industry, which is the automotive sector, and we understand that one of the objectives of this committee should be to agree, to agree on the identification of that type of policy that we need, because in that new distribution of cards that will be made by the automotive industry at global level, so we do not remain completely watered down. And if that was important when we put forward this proposal, it's more important today. I suppose you, with all the trouble of talking about politics, politics and among us, will not have missed a bad news that we have today, which is what is happening on the topic of SEAT: With the good news apparently from 2018 another product will come, another model, the A1, turns out that will come the A1, but the Q3, which is the basis of SEAT at this time in Martorell, will go to Hungary. Because you are making an idea, the Q3 uses twenty-seen hours each vehicle and the A1 will only use said. That means that... a reduction in the needs of these people's staff. All of this we need to be able to get ahead of ourselves, and this is one of the key elements we want to raise. Many things can be done; for example, to ensure that resources directed, public and innovation-oriented are not so far, only for the two big companies, but that they are fumes for all 380 companies in the component sector, which is the only way to help our country's industrial fabric. Ensure that the public infrastructure of this country anticipates this change in the car model and adapts to the possibility of autonomous, driverless car. For example, ensuring that vocational training continues to be a key factor, as it has been so far, to ensure that there is no reversal for lack of qualified people. That's what we got, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.93.0	Mr. Coscubila, you should be done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.94.0	I'm done. But it will be tremendously difficult to keep it in the future. For example, promote the adaptation of some of these today's companies, of components, so that we don't get back to something that happened to this country – and some of you know it. There was a time when the Lear of Roquetes, back in the Ebre Lands, was manufacturing electrical wiring when practically no car was no longer using this technology. What happened? He's going to lock up, obviously. Anticipating all events is essential and the Government of the Generality has a great responsibility. We want to work together in a position, through this committee, which we are proposing at this time. Unfortunately, the division of this government between the Department of Enterprise and the Department of Occupation will not help us. We shall try to resolve this issue in this committee. Let's hope this doesn't end in terms of inefficiency on this issue, but that's why we're here. Let's leave it, Madam President, only with one question: also, also, this committee can do one thing, identify five aspects of the legislation help a sector that puts up for innovation or helps a sector that puts up for precariousness. Two examples. If the labor reform agreed for the People's Party and Convergence and Union brought forward an element such as the disappearance of the previous administrative authority for the crisis senders – certainly, president, one of the few state structures we had in the matter of work, and which you gave it, in 2012, thanks to the votes that were made with the PP there at the Congress of Deputies – then this also helps with relocation. There's another example. If labour reform continues potently...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.95.0	Mr. Coscubila, it was five minutes, in door set and half...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.96.0	No, he's not worried they haven't woken up yet. [[Rialles.]] I'll be right there. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm done, I'm done... once we talk about people's things... [[Widow's remorse.]] Two seconds, President. [[Pause.]] They were told that if, for example, it continues to drive the business agreement under the industry agreement, as with labour reform, what is going on at these times in some car companies: that clean and logistics companies have to opt for a business agreement to end up paying eight hundred euros. And that's... that's what we don't care about. All this is what we want you to identify with this commission. And we offer them, as you can see, a clear attitude of collaboration. Our opposition will be like this, criticizing when we do not like it, but above all by presenting proposals. And with this commission, we want to prove it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.97.0	To express his position on this proposal, the words of Mr Antonio Espinosa, of the Ciutadans Group, are given.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.98.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know – and the previous Members have put it clearly – the importance of the automotive sector in Catalonia, in the Catalan industry, and, naturally, and as a result, in the Catalan economy and occupation in Catalonia. It is not strange, therefore, that we are concerned, throughout the room, not only the present, but above all the future that this sector must have, because it is a clear source of wealth and occupation for all of Catalonia; it gives employment to thousands of jobs and accounts for more than 12,000 million billings each year. Faced with this reality, it is obvious that Ciutadans, as it cannot be otherwise, has to give recollection to this commission, which, logically, has to put on the table an analysis of the current situation, but above all – above all – it has as its end, and I believe that, as an objective, to establish a strategy for the future; for a future that does not only guarantee the continuity of the sector but also does more, seek a growth and an enhancement of this one. For Ciutadans, this strategy towards automotive is the framework between a policy, a very ambitious industrial policy strategy across Catalonia and across all sectors, and that for us it passes so that industry has a significant, very significant, more, including, than it has now, and that it reaches, if possible, 25_percent of GDP in the next four years or five years. The Catalan economy has a good future if the Catalan industry has a good future. And here's where I think that we as legislators, we as deputies and the government of the generality have to lay down all their powers, all their tools. And why? Because it has to put into practice public policies that allow to generate an industrial fabric, in general, and a automotive sector, in particular, solid, competitive, high productivity and – very important – prepared to compete in the international market. If we want to have a high-productivity and competitive automotive sector, the first task we have to do is to facilitate – facilitate; many times the policy has to facilitate, above all – and to promote the transformation of the same sector, which will be..., and is now facing, in the future, still more, enormous challenges of transformation and adaptation, above all, every time more demanding measures to protect the environment. If we want to have a competitive sector we need to have human capital, workers with more technical training than add value. We must offer this; Catalonia must be able to offer this. The multinationals that come, or those that come, including our companies, from here, need this added value. And, naturally, we have to have infrastructure, infrastructure that the sector needs, and that, like, I want... some infrastructure that, logically, aims to reduce logistics and transport costs. And, naturally, I am thinking, as it could not be in any other way, of the importance that the Mediterranean Corridor has for Catalonia in this sense and that the SEAT center of Martorell has the full European route because its cars, its goods, in the background, arrive without complications and in the most direct way to the rest of Europe. There's a few clicks I want to reschedule right now. About three hundred_euros would be spent per car manufactured in València, Ford, and a hundred_seventy per car would be spent if we had the European width already in the Mediterranean Corridor. It is important, therefore, for this task, to facilitate this infrastructure, basic, also, for the transport sector. On the part of the Government of the Generality, support must be given to industrial plans. I think that the Generalitat has to put money, it has to co-finance certain plans, but not any plans; naturally, those that suppose a better degree of competitiveness, that bring innovative technologies, that increase energy efficiency, and also have to co-finance those projects that suppose we are centered in Catalonia, huh? It's either the fruit of novelty, or it's, it's really us, or it's the fruit of a relocation of industrial centres. And, naturally, all this, conditioned to stay in the territories of Catalonia. But let's be clear, the work of this committee, the resolutions of this committee, the studies of this committee can be remedied if...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.99.0	Mr. Spiny, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.100.0	... – yes, then – if we have, if we continue to have a government that is taking part in a secession process that would place us outside the European Union and that, moreover, would prevent, for example, co-financing, through the European Investment Bank, of what was before, the same Corridor of the Mediterranean. Therefore, in Ciutadans we are convinced that the Government that has now generated uncertainty, insecurity, anxiety, and this clearly puts at risk the possibility that the announcements – announced – investments for groups such as SEAT or Nissan can be repositioned, but totally, if partially, the investments that, as I said, have promised us. They just said that we in Ciutadans would want to – even though we really have a lack of confidence in this – that the Government of the Generality change, being more realistic, change its priorities, and, logically, as a consequence of this, of this change, so I favored the welfare and prosperity of the Catalans today and, above all, tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.101.0	Next is the words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Parliamentary Group Popular Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.102.0	President... MPs, MPs, the extraordinary impulse that the car industry in Spain has had in the past few years, with a leading role in Catalonia cabdal, is one of the most surprising and uplifting phenomena in the European economy of the past few years, especially if we are aware that it does not happen, from 2006 to 2010, left-wing economists and right-wing economists spoke openly, in a pessimistic way, of the already irreversible displacement of the Spanish and Catalan car industry. So, well, it wasn't like that, and in the last four years, today, we are leaders in growing production in Europe; second in tourism production, only after Germany; leaders in industrial and commercial vehicles, and leaders in increasing exports. But it is that, moreover, we have been able to achieve this by overcoming two of the structural problems that our industry had in this matter, and that it was already coming from a very long time ago, from that legendary stage of Barriers, from the beginning of the SEAT or from FASA-Renault: the inadequacy of our auxiliary industry and foreign technological dependence. This caused us to have a car park for decades – just remembering our infantry – out of date, ancient. And now it's over. We are leaders, today, in innovation – explained here – in auxiliary industry. But that didn't happen by magic, that didn't fall from the cell. Here there have been policies at state level, by the Government of Spain, which have helped: the so-called labour reform. I'm not saying it, I'm not saying it's the People's Party's policy; I'm saying it's the manager of the companies. Basically, for a reason. It is not a matter of a radical fall in wages – we still triple and double, in wages, potential competing countries like Turkey or Brazil –; it is above all for flexibility in contracting. The left has the habit of talking a lot about flexibility at the same time, when, in reality, if we look at the aggregate, it is contracted much more people than it does not. Secondly, a determined policy of recollection in foreign trade, which supposes that today we export 85_per_cent of which it is manufactured. And, finally, also a policy decided with the PIVE plans, from raising to domestic demand, which means that in the last years we have beaten car sales figures also to Catalonia and Spain. Who was, in correspondence, the attitude of the Government of Catalonia and the policies of the Government of Catalonia? So, well, his attitude – not to be cruel – we could say that he was contemplative, as explained before; they were in other things. And, therefore, this commission, welcome to follow, if it serves above all because the competencies that fall within the Generality in this matter, which are very much – said the motius exposition – can be developed as it has not been done so far. Now, a point. And what I'm going to say right now is bound to look like a pain in the ass, but I've read some of the electoral programs from some parts of this hemicicle, and then it's not that much pain in the ass. This commission has to be used to raise the Catalan automotive industry, not to make it the guitar. And I'll explain. A part of the left has the habit, bad habit, which was manifested in a palm at the time of the tripartite, of applying to that which brilliantly economist Carlos Rodríguez Braun called "the radars to the productive activity of the left, which basically means that, in an implacable, insatiable way, these radars are dedicated to the scanning of any industry that works, it was not the case that people progressed and their lives went well, which they would never forgive. There are three types of radars. The first radars are fiscal radars. They have lived many times; we remember the time of the tripartite. There was an industry that worked very well, which was the tourist: ecotax. So, well, we already argue that in the conclusions, in the conclusions of this committee, we will not accept, we will not share any conclusion that it involves the creation of a new tax on the Catalan automotive industry, as some parties have already defended. According to radars, legislative radars; they also lived palmarily in the time of the tripartite, hard way. We remember, for example, the legislation in the matter of the Catalan coastal system, which makes virtually incompatible any type of economic activity. So, well, we won't share, we won't gather any conclusions that it involves imposing on the legislative model of the automobile that imposes on the industry the type of production. And, finally, the most perilous: the radars... (fons voice), yes sir, the radars, the radars to the product model. Miri, before we talked about secular problems. The Spanish and Catalan industries have a long-standing structural problem, which is the lack of productivity. So, well, if there's an industry that's been able to overcome it in Catalonia and Spain, it's the automotive industry, which has increased productivity. So don't spat it out. In short, I wanted to tell you – because I already know that these things bother you a little, although I haven't named them – is that we have to be able to apply a common sense. I already know that from the moral cuttings of his bicycles, therefore, this from the automotive industry [[remorse of the voice]] I didn't just convince them too much – it's very nice about the bike, which I like very much, huh? I share it. But above all – and with this message I finish – we don't have any – we don't have any – in Catalonia an industry that works as well as the automotive industry. As a result, we are not spatling with this committee since the People's Party is well-grateful and, therefore, we will be collecting it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.103.0	There's a word from Mr. Benet Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.104.0	Good afternoon. We, from the CUP - Constituent Creed, will give support to the creation of the study commission on industrial policies to the automotive sector. And, as you know, we have always oriented our political action, or so we have understood, from being on the side of mobilizations and, in this concrete sector, from mobilizations against corporate bonds, corporate bonds, and so on, which have gone through a lot precisely in the automotive sector. And, therefore, from this perspective, we think that the purpose and object of the committee should be far beyond the very concrete economic facts that have passed away, because we do not forget, for example, that the mobilising network against the closure of companies was created more than twelve years ago. And so it's been a long time since there are people in this country who struggle to keep their jobs, from unions, from workers' assemblies, from all the mobilizations we know, and, therefore, from this point of view, we learn from all these years of work and struggle to keep our jobs. It is precisely from this learning that we don't think you feel like doing what the Socialist Party does at the time of proposing this committee, in the sense of voting for the creation of this committee, but not in favour of the constituent committee. That is to say, talking about the closure of businesses today in Catalonia, the year 2015, and not talking about capitalism, and not talking about crisis, and not talking about the devastation of the existing economic system is simply, in a way, a certain political hypocrisy. Because the shutdowns of companies, the ones in our house, too, are not natural catastrophes, nor the fruit of chance. As the Valeo workers and workers reminded us, who have done a very important job of unravelling all the arguments in order to justify the relocation of their company, in Catalonia the justification of the tanks can never be a malfunction of the productive plants, because, as the Commission's own proposal for a resolution says, we have a good industrial ecosystem that favors the proper functioning of this sector. Moreover, in the concrete case of Valeo, precisely, the first half of 2015 had achieved a 34_per_cent more benefits than during the whole year 2014. Nor did it seem that it was possible to justify the displacement from a logistic perspective, because the entire production or the majority of Valeo's production was precisely aimed at SEAT and Nissan, which were located less than thirty kilometres away from this company. And from an efficiency perspective, if any, the Valeo company, therefore, was one of the most efficient of the group. Therefore, the problem or the cause of all this is not, much less, the efficiency, the logistics, or any of these reasons. The problem is said to be capitalism and the problem is said to be to look for more business benefits bringing production to other countries where working conditions are more precarious or to look for more business benefits seeking a reduction in wages and working conditions, many times under the threat of displacement. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the parliamentary initiative and think, therefore, that all the initiatives that vagine oriented to preserving work places and to shielding the occupation and growth of work places in our home will count on our support. But let us not forget that this committee will not be more than the vanguard of the really important discussion, which is the one that will take place at the end of the process, are that it will live in this country in properity, in the proper months. Because only if we can discuss the rules of the game, the structural rules, the rules of truth that regulate this economic system so unjust, can we actually give a solution and create occupation. We bet, and we have always said, that on the side of national sovereignty, on the side of recovering national sovereignty, we can recover a whole range of sobrieties that we do not have: energy sovereignty, residential sovereignty, reproductive sovereignty, etcetera, and also productive sovereignty. This is the debate that seems really important to us and it's the debate that we think will be addressed in the process. That, or we're going to approach my process is or really all the rest is nothing more than political hypocrisy and dumb paper. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.105.0	The word "il·lustrissim" is written by Mr. Joan Ramon Casals of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.106.0	All right. Thank you, President; thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies and deputies, and also, as has been said before, representatives of the Workers' and UGT Committees who are also accompanying us today, as we will support this motion for a resolution to create this committee to follow up the industrial policies of our country's car, and we do so because, above all, the same motion for a resolution places in value the work and the initiatives due to end for the Government of the Government of the last few years, against what they say the same ones that propose it. And, yes, we also believe that it would have been good to have created a commission of these characteristics in 2008, 2009 or 2010, when the crisis was very intense throughout the country, but especially in the world of automotive, where we unfortunately lost a lot of jobs and where we had to close many auxiliary companies or components. We all know that it is a sector in which we always have to be on alert, and we all know that there are now positive data. We can talk about the xifra remember that there was the 2015 year of production of the Martorell factory or what was spoken before the announcement of the new construction of the model A1 to Martorell, all and lose the one of Q3. And, therefore, we also need to be aware – and it is the one that proposes and the one that generates this motion for a resolution – as well as the crisis..., we could say that it generates confidence in the diesel. We therefore fully share the objectives of the Commission. So much so, as I said, that the one that fills in what the same motion for a resolution says... the one that was made to achieve a better ecosystem that clearly favored the sector. The same proposal is made by Martorell's Centre for Occupational Training, the impulse of university degrees or the impulse of clusters, such as the automotive industry, which took place in the last three years, which aims to help our country's peppers on the subject, and above all to support investments in the centres for the design or manufacture of the car's peppers. Catalonia is a country of flames, we need to be aware, and these, in the field of automotive especially, at these times are making a great effort to be able to be ahead in the technological field, especially in what you also have to see with the field of the electric motor. These small and medium-sized enterprises in our country, at these times, too, are leading the investments of productive centres in the world, we need to be aware, and also innovation centres in our country, and this has also been thanks to the support of the Government of the Generality in the last few years. Here is the key, for example, to the work that has been done by the Action or the External Action Offices of what was being spoken about this morning and which some call 'embassies' and tell us that they do not serve for anything but precisely serve for this, to increase the export of our country, in which we are heading. The Government of the Generality is fully aware of the key role played by this sector, and that is why it has not stopped initiating initiatives. I had a prepared intervention of fifteen minutes, but in a few minutes; we could be on to initiatives that we haven't stopped doing in the last few years. At these times there are, for example, those who have to do with RIS3, research and innovation strategies in intelligent expertise, which leads Idiad and which will just generate a lot of investment in this sense. And lately, too, and this is very well-known, what Eurecat is, as the great innovation centre of our country, which is primarily directed to the peppers and which is especially helping the automotive sector, and all the work groups that are specifically doing, such as what has recently been created by SEAT, or what is done with the cluster of the automotive industry, to analyse precisely the problems and who are the future challenges of the sector, which, as has been well said, is constantly changing and we must always be there. So, especially this government, what did he do? He has a stake and put money and invested in everything he has to do with innovation and sustainable mobility, which is one of the seven main axes of our country's industrial policy and which includes, as the resolution proposal itself says, not just the automotive sectors, but all those who have to do with alternative energies and electricity. We therefore agree that we must discuss all these proposals. But I also need to be aware of the trend, as has been said, of the automotive industry, especially of the automotive auxiliary industry in this sector, where it is precisely the fusion of large multinationals and where it is at risk, it is the small and medium-sized enterprises, as it is in our country. That is why what the Government of the Generality is doing at these times and what I hope we can do in this committee is creating enough synergies because our country continues to feel that country of small and medium-sized enterprises that is aiming at innovation in these aspects. But they will also want to talk about something else in this committee, because it is also important and basic – important and basic – for the automotive industry..., which are those strategic aspects. For example, we hope that the Barcelona City Council or the Metropolitan Area will continue to invest, as has been done recently, in the last few years, in bringing electric vehicles up to date, because not only are cars to be manufactured, but we must encourage our use and sales. And in that it's basic that we coordinate with the Metropolitan Area, in which you, huh? , who present for example the proposal, are at the forefront, and the small gatherings, as I represent, we have asked to do so. But also the bet for the Mediterranean Corridor, because we all know that the great Spanish matches have never bet for the Mediterranean Corridor. If there really is anything strategic in this country because the automotive industry pulls forward is the Mediterranean Corridor. Welcome back, and I'm still betting on it and we're starting to see that it's a reality. Inversions to the port of railway connections or by road. It's a shame the state they're in and the lack of investments the Spanish State has left us. And this is lost from work places in my region, in the Lower Llobregat, just where there is more in the automotive industry. He knows it's hard for us to lose jobs for this reason, and this lack of investment penalizes the automotive sector. The same with connections to the Prat airport. Everybody knows, huh? , the traverses that always possess from Madrid because we have these international connections. All this also needs to be talked about in this committee, because, if not, we wouldn't be talking about the whole truth and we wouldn't be feeling right...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.107.0	Mr. Couples, you should be done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.108.0	...capdavanters. So what I hope for is that this commission, and in the end... is that we are convinced that this commission will serve to replenish, a little more, that the best for Catalonia and its workers and its automotive industry is to be an independent state. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.109.0	Let us now proceed to the vote on the proposal. I'm calling a vote. [[Pause.]] The vote begins. The proposal to set up the committee was approved by 129 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Proposal for a resolution on the recovery of the 2012 overtime and other labour rights of public workers]] [[250-00021/11]] The item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the recovery of the 2012 overtime and other working rights of public workers. In accordance with Rule 165.1 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposed resolution may be submitted by the group or parliamentary groups which are the authors of the proposal. As this motion for a resolution has been tabled jointly by five parliamentary groups, we shall proceed, first of all, to the turn of these groups for a maximum of two minutes each. The parable is given by the illustrious Lord Joan García, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.110.0	President... Members of the Government, Members, Members, President, for me it is a pleasure to make the first intervention today to confirm an agreement, or so thank you for having been able to enter and combine with this fate. Even though, on the other hand, I have also proven that today I can say that you, Lords of Together for the Yes, are the champions of suspense. So, in some ways, let's start with two statements that, for me, therefore, are an experience that I may remember. A joint motion for a resolution was presented today which was intended to be a review exercise of the past, thanks to an effort and correction to some governments. What we brought most of the political forces to this point in the order of the day wanted to be a challenge to the totality of the retail policies of the last few years, and I think I still feel it. We hoped, without optimism, that the group that supports the Government would be able to correct the forms and admit certain errors explaining the use that has been made since 2012 of the figure of public officials. In fact, we believe that they will be able to respond to the assumption that this group has already set up, in its day, with which we questioned whether the best way to balance some assumptions in time of crisis was to use the workings as the method of financing when there were other paths. We recall that in the application of Royal Decree 20/2012 of 13 July 2012, in order to guarantee fiscal stability and competitiveness, a major individual effort was required of public workers and, among other labour rights, the 2012 extra payment was eliminated. Especially indicated was the name of the decree: of presuppositional stability and competitiveness; that is to say, it left on the spaces of public workers good part of the efforts that our society had to make to restore a desperate situation, conceived in the past, suffered in the present and that it had to determine a way out for the future. It's not bad people. And what is worse, again, were the public workers who had to pay for the good part of the greas that the state and the generality had been accumulating the last few years, and, again, instead of taking on real receipts of approval – eliminating duplicates, changing priorities from public spending or renegotiating debts–, using past formulas that reduced the muscle of our welfare society and left intact political and structural privileges. As we meant, we do not need to reduce the number of teachers, teachers, firefighters, police, but the number of administrative structures, duplicates, inefficient and unnecessary, which the current government seems to want to continue to create. And it's that it couldn't continue to increase spending on embassies and say no, at a time, to the recovery of labor and economic rights of the public workers of the Generality. Execute retail policies, we arrive at the end of 2014, and the Government of Spain decides, by means of a royal decree, the return on one side of the suspended pay, and on September 2015 decrees the return on the rest of the 2012 pay in fiscal years 2015 and 2016 and thus opens the door to the restitution of other rights. We thought that a few months ago it was time to thank the efforts made by the public workers, and to do so not only with words but with facts. But while other local and autonomous administrations from all over Spain..., and negotiations have started positively and voluntarily – and thus demonstrate the results that these other administrations have achieved in the months of negotiations – the Government of the Government has, meanwhile, gathered the Public Service Bureau on 6 November and, after two meetings, rose up without a plan and without a proposal. And it's true, in Catalonia we are different, at least at the time of dealing with our public workers we are. The Generalitat was one of the first administrations to apply detail; pioneers, therefore, in policies of precariousness; and, once applied, the Generalitat has done it with an unparalleled intensity: relating beyond that pay of 2012, eliminating payments in 2013 and 2014 and a whole series of labor and social rights. The Government of the Generalitat has continued to be a field of detail, a field of extra effort to our officials and champions unable to dialogue, to more outstanding champions, which I have already said before; but well, it was beginning to speak of an agreement and we will put it in value. First of all, we must congratulate the work of trade unions and workers, who are here today – a greeting – and their continued willingness to persist in a complicated, but possible, objective. We must congratulate all opposition parties, in particular us as opposed, for having built a report in the form of a resolution proposal that has served as the platform for a positive agreement for the workers and that leaves out of play the famous health cord. We knew from different feelings, some very recently, that the waiver of the March 10, 2015 government agreement was more than necessary. In fact, that agreement did not have much recourse to the future. The opposition here has shown a greater degree of accountability, as it has shown by accepting Juntes' proposals for the Yes to allege the terms of recovery of suspected economic rights, as well as labor and social rights. All this has to be done to allow the Civil Service Bureau to work on other aspects such as 2013 and 2014 payments, which should also be returned. We have, therefore, a payment agreement with dates and commitments, to which we give... in this case to which the unions support. And it seems that, from the opposition, we can open up areas of debate for questions that are essential for the city, questions that are really essential for the city. So, even though we've gotten another shot at the thriller feeling of success, we think we're starting to walk towards the targets marked for the resolution proposal. We will follow this motion for a resolution and this agreement very closely. Citizens will continue to work and act as a driver to reach agreement on aspects that are really priorities for our society. Thank you, Members of Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.111.0	It has the parable the illustrious lady Alicia Romero, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.112.0	Thank you, President. Nice late, again. So yes, now Congressman Joan García said that we are..., we are putting forward a proposal that we are moderately satisfied. I don't want to be very positive either, because this is a topic that we're working on from the moon and it seems to me that we could have, so, come to other situations in other times; but, well, anyway, I'd like to take a little rest because we're where we are. In 2012, the Generalitat began to apply details to the collection of public officials. He did it long before the state government. It's also worth remembering, because often, we look, we look at Madrid to blame them for many of the things that happen to us, but here the Government of the Generality began to detail how you would work long before Madrid. When the Royal Decree of the Government of the State arrived... and as long as it did, read well the decrees of the Generality, which are long before, a few months before, not more, but a few months before that of the State. When the state was up, it was necessary to add these details to what the Government of the Generality did... (Remorse continues.) So, he was already on the skate, and he made it worse...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.113.0	Respect the word tower, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.114.0	Yes, above all, I am looking at the dates of what the Government of the Generality approved, because I have it here, and the dates of these public service detailes came before they came from the State. When they arrive from the State, the situation worsens – the situation worsens – for you to function Catalans, and in this we see as in the next five years the sum of the purchasing power that you have lost this function, so it is already around 20_per_cent. It is one of the collectives to whom we have asked most effort during the economic crisis, and to us, therefore, it seems – and we have always been claimed in this Parliament, too, so – that this situation should be reversed. Because we do not forget that the rights sunk through collective negotiations and through many years of negotiations are not lost, are relaxed, are maintained and what it is, in any case, to recover them. And this has been a bit of a lot of parliamentary groups, our task is to try to get these rights back as soon as possible. 2014 was a certain recovery, not all of you would work, on the one hand of the 2012 pay, forty-four days, but not all of you would work it the same way; and on 2015, September, as the deputy of Ciutadans said, above a real decree of the State in which it is proposed to return the rest of the 2012 pay, 2015 and 2016. At this point, the majority of autonomous communities, of deputies, of assemblies – i.e., the totality of state administrations –, begin to negotiate with their workers' representatives the return of this paid with calendars that are set up and that each one of them negotiated. What's the surprise and disappointment here in Catalonia? So, there isn't really – or we didn't know it was us and I don't think the unions – a clear intention of the government, at that time in operation, to reach a certain agreement. We already understand that the economic situation is that of the Government of Catalonia, also of other autonomous communities, we are not the only ones we suffer; but there was a will of dialogue, a will to reach an agreement, to establish a calendar that here in Catalonia did not exist. There was the first meeting of the Civil Service Bureau on 6 November. And that's it. There were two more, where there was no agreement. And remember, you, that there were demonstrations of the unions, sealed in yours of the Generality, to say: "Listen to us and negotiate with us. They were not, either, asking that it is already solutions without problems or that there is a reversal of labor rights beyond pay per minute. They were saying: "We are, please, and we are negotiating. This did not happen with that government in office and, finally, the unions, the representatives of the Civil Service Bureau, who are UGT, Commissions and the IAC – to whom I want to greet because, so, today, obviously, they accompany us – asked us for help, a certain recovery, a certain support to try to approve a proposal or to present a proposal in this Parliament that you allow them to realize a little more this reversal, this recovery of lost rights, which, beyond the payments – 2012, 2013 and 2014 – are also: social rights, days of permits, holidays, etc. Well, the proposal that all the parliamentary groups made except for the Yes, which I have to say that he attended the meeting and, therefore, knew, also firsthand who was the attitude, which was the feeling and dissatisfaction of the unions, therefore, in that meeting was to make a motion for a resolution, which is what we have tabled and which is what should be discussed in this plenary. This has happened, all these months, this proposal was put forward on November 11th, it's to say that a few days ago that it's on the table, that the Juntes members know it for the Yes, and the fact is that until a few hours ago we haven't seen an attitude of wanting to negotiate or of wanting to resolve a situation like we found ourselves in what it might be like to have this proposal approved, and so the government has moved. I'm saying that clearly because he's been there. It's hard for me to know that we have to arrive until the last minute to reach an agreement, to make a deal, and to try, therefore, to make some things come true. Because, in the end, we don't want to go into the mood either, so what we like is to move forward and be able to wake up a few things. But the truth is that the first proposal that the government makes to us does not satisfy us and the second proposal does not satisfy us at all, but, well, we understand that we have advanced – we understand that we have advanced – that we have concretely. Why do I explain this? So why, finally, to the proposal that we will submit and that we have traded all the groups, what is proposed is to recover the 2012 pay between 2016 and 2017. We'd have liked it sooner. But, listen to me, we already understand that things are very complicated, and therefore, with the agreement of the unions, so this pay is going to be able to come back in these two years. And we'll get back all the rest of the social rights – days of permits, holidays, etc. – by 2016. That this also seems to me to be an important and interesting issue. Therefore, although we would have liked it... – man, always try to be, therefore, more ambitious – we believe it is a good proposal. We know it's hard for the government to move so late in the last minute. This could have been agreed at the Public Service Office in November, or in the month of December, or on principles of generation. No, they've had to wait – they've had to wait – to keep the water at the neck, to find themselves here perhaps in a complicated situation to negotiate. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Listen to me, it's my vision; you push here and explain yours. I'm just saying I know this hard. And I want to add – and I want to add – that what would please us most beyond this agreement that we are coming to today and this deal that we will vote on, I suppose, so all the Members..., is that I would like the new government to have another attitude, to have another attitude than the one that the government had out, because it has sat down in months of negotiation and has not negotiated, and has not dialogued, and has not agreed. And the collective negotiation deals with this: to dialogue, to agree and to agree; and this has not been done by the former Government. And we'd love for this new government to have this will. In this government there are two different sensitivities, there are different groups than the conform. So, we would like the whole government – everything, not one department on one side and the other department on the other, that we already know that this is very complicated –... so that we simply can go to one, have this sensitivity and this attitude of pact and agreement with the unions, that we believe there hasn't been in this time. Therefore, yes, we are finally satisfied that we can approve this transaction, that concrete things are taking place, that progresses in the reversal of workers' rights – which are theirs – and, therefore, we accept this transaction and we will vote in favour of it. But I already have to tell you that we would have liked this sensitivity, this will, this ability was enough before today, before we could debate and approve this motion for a resolution in the House. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.115.0	It has the word the illustrious Lord Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.116.0	Thank you, Madam President. Many honorable president – the vice president is not there – counselors, advisors, ladies and gentlemen, after the master's degree from Congresswoman Romero, I think you will feel the same things again twice, but well, let's give it for good. Anyway, let's make a little variation. Look, some misconceptions like me believe that the government of Junts for Yes is a government that in the form is different from the previous, but that in the background will end up making the same policies as the government of Convergence with the support of Republican Left that we have suffered until today. And, look, this resolution is a resolution that will allow us to judge if what I think will end up feeling certain or will be denied with time categorically – that there is nothing I would like more, look. And you can allow them to explain to everyone that this is no longer the Convergence of Business, that you are already the cross-cutting thing that they explain, independently, with various variants of politics..., in short, everything that you explain and that leaves us in a merry-go-round or..., I don't know, something that you know how to explain. And it seems that, for the time being, with this transaction that they explained for a long time, that we will approve – I hope – and that if there were any negotiating attitude as it was said, probably they could have done it before – because it is the 1st of September, this motion for a resolution – and given the need for virtue, it allows them to save the furniture from their fragile governance agreement – it seems, I say, that with this transaction the misconceptions of mena as I do, we can hold them to the benefit of the doubt for a longer time. Because, as you know, the issue of resolution is not new. Talk about the use and bust of the country's officials to square the government's debts and accounts. He talks about the use and the abuse that the former government made of staff salaries to his service, in contrast to the religion with which they paid concessions of highways, builders, banks and other friends to whom they represented Mr. Mas's business friendly. He talks about detailing the rights acquired in the collective negotiation at the length of a bunch of years and, taking advantage of the fact that Madrid opened the door a little more, becoming the most advanced students of the detail and transforming what was to be – as the decree says – an exceptionality, for the moments of the crisis, into a sad normality. There's more than that, the rumsa as much as they can, which are from the past to return to this normality; from the past. He is also talking about confusing a real collective negotiation at the sectoral table, where we should come to an agreement, with so much Spanish in the order and command, or, in another way, he said: "I present facts consumed and we give it by negotiation. Talk about all this, the resolution. Even serves to remember that in this chamber some aspects have been approved that today appear to the resolution and on which the Government of the Generality has acted with a certain filbusterism in order not to complete them in its totality, as is the case of the forty-four days deserved of the payment of 2012. And if not, let's make a little memory: the fever and the May of 2012 – February and May of 2012 – in a government agreement, you – there, you forgive, your predecessors –, like the first of the class, retaliate before no one pays when you work in two parts, June and December. But it turns out that, in July, the Government of the State approves the Royal Decree-Law for which, among other questions, an extra payment, in a totally evil way, is retaliated, because then you would have worked and employees had already worked and, therefore, deserved forty-four days of the second half of the year for this pay, and it was earned wages. What is the Government of the Generalitat doing then with good criteria this time? It subsumes its detail to the state's detail and, therefore, leaves its own detail without subsequent legal effects. But, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! When they begin to feel in favor of collecting And it is not, finally, until the approval of the previous assumptions that it is committed to paying firmly the famous forty-four days: three years, 2015– three years. But then – ai, las! , another time –, the March 2015 agreement is drawn from the maniga they explain how they will pay them, but also when they recover, in an attack of a certain trilerism, their first agreement of 2012 of detail of the extra pay, which had already fallen legally, and there are left of the money that they receive from their workers and workers with a unique attitude of the topical and typical of the Catalan shepherds of Folch and Torres. And that's what we want today to be withdrawn, because the state is already charging everyone. Because even at the meetings of Girona and Sant Vicenç dels Horts is already well dealt with as it will be charged, and, therefore, we will not make today a law to the president and vice president of our government who, according to the mayors, have given for good what we propose to them today – I suppose this must have helped, too, to reach an agreement. The previous government has repeatedly used the functions and functions as ostats of its accounts; it has acted with them as Mr. Esteve's aca's love; it has lost collective bargaining while constantly repeating that it was much appreciated, because they were the basis of the new country, but it did nothing to prove it. The serious question: Will you do it too? Or, with some misconceptions we believe: Are you the same? Today they have the opportunity to demonstrate to the country that they are beginning to be something else. And they'll have two opportunities to do it. The first, today, with your vote in favour of this resolution, which I would like to remind you that we presented all the groups in the chamber less you and that, therefore, it prospered with your votes or without, and that I suppose that, for this reason, you have had to espavilize yourself to seek a reasonable exit with a return calendar that satisfied the union representatives, which take a long time – too long – struggling to return to what is undoubtedly an unfair situation, and to which it is obvious that you can recognize their persistence. He resolved that, in summary, he only said two things: one, to leave the March 2015 agreement without effect, and not to prevent with new legal arguments the recovery of the entire 2012 pay – I would like to recall that they were exceptional measures for an exceptional situation and that you proclaim to them that we are emerging from the crisis, if they are indeed serious contradictions with the fact of maintaining this exceptional situation. And another thing you say is that they negotiate, that they negotiate in truth with the representatives of the workers and workers at the Public Service Bureau. That they negotiate deadlines and timetables to recover salary breakdowns; that they negotiate deadlines and timetables to recover the related rights. And as soon as we're as we were before the government of the best faith in the best detail, we draw a line, a fine line, and start again. But this time, it's good. Because probably you – this time yes, you – must have plans to reform administrations, just as the previous government tried to do. And in these reforms, you can hold the people who will have to apply them face to face, in a willingness to negotiate, because they believe that what is done is not only good for the country but that, in addition, it will favor them, or ass, and with an open war, because they will hardly be able to make them believe and benefit from their proposals those people who feel deprived of their government and misled by their boss. And they'll have a second chance to prove that they're something else; they'll have a fire test later. It's very simple: I am completing what we approve of today. Because, as you know, the previous government, to which many of you supported, has been characterized by a large amount of resolutions approved for this Parliament, with an extraordinary show of respect for some of the political agreements that represent Parliament's resolutions. But you're different, they say. So go ahead, make me look bad, please, vote on this resolution and then complete the other agreements, and then maybe we can start hearing each other. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.117.0	The parable is given by the illustrious lady María José García Cuevas, of the Groupe Parlamentari Partit Popular de Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.118.0	Thank you, President. First of all, we would like to welcome the trade union representatives who are with us. Honourable Councillor, councillors, ladies and gentlemen, in an event in the last election campaign an economist from the PP, a high office of the Government of Spain, explained to us how the FLA and the Plan for payment to suppliers worked. At the end of the exhibition a person from the public, official of the Generalitat, asked him why the pharmacies could charge what the Generalitat owed them with these mechanisms and they could not charge the extra payments owed them by the Generalitat. My government partner replied that the officials are not suppliers of the Generalitat and that is why they do not make bills that the State can take care of and pay for. And it is true, but the concern of this official goes beyond, because what he was looking for was a serious, rapid solution to the economic damage that is causing him the abandonment of functions of the Generalitat, because one of the most obvious functions of a public administration, in addition to paying bills, is to pay his staff. In fact, if this Catalan official had depended on the State, he would not have been cut off from the 2013 extra payments, nor from the 14th, he would not have been reduced by 5_per_cent, he would have already paid half of the 2012 pay and would have a reasonable guarantee that throughout this year he would have paid the remaining 50_per_cent. Good, but let's remember the context of 2012: the country on the verge of rescue and many Spaniards losing their job. All those who at that time were earning a salary, a public salary, we collaborated with wage and benefit reductions. In Catalonia more than anywhere else why our government dropped in, by budget law, a 5-per-cent salary to officials in 2012. Then came the state decree of retention of an extra pay in 2012 as an exceptional and reversible measure, decree that the Generalitat scrupulously applied increasing the drop to 7_per_cent. What the Government did not respect so scrupulously was that the measure was exceptional and reversible; unilaterally, it expanded the exceptionality and cut the extra pay of 2013 and 14, and already without state alibi. And as for reversing the cut, when at the end of the 14th the State decreed the return of the first 25_per_cent of the pay of the 12th, the Generalitat recovered the decrease of the 5_per_cent by absolutely distorting the application of the state norm. And when the state has now decreed the return of the second 25_per_cent of the 2012 extra pay, the Generalitat ignores it, maintains its cut, 5_per_cent, and hinders as union bargaining can. As we see in this issue – as in others – the twisting application of the rules, sovereignty at the letter and if you can blame Madrid, better. Fortunately, the rule of law is working and we were last told yesterday that the 5_per_cent cut approved by Government Agreement 33/15 of 10 March has been declared null and void by judicial order of 22 December. Here you go. [[The speaker shows a full.]] In this order, the judge classifies the approval of this Government Agreement 33/15 as a case of disguised disobedience, strategism or arrogance and, ultimately, fraud of law, with doubts about the good faith in the performance of the Administration. Thus, judicially annulled Agreement 33/15, is ineffective, has no legitimacy, although the Government has decided to progressively repeal it. And it is that the Generalitat has acted with discretion when it comes to cutting to adjust the deficit. Nothing to cut or apply to manage the debt he inherited from the tripartite and that the Government of Convergence with Esquerra has doubled in four years. No cuts in the public sector, the most expensive, heavy and inefficient in all of Spain. No, the important thing has been the process, a process that is based on propaganda, clientelism and internationalization. And here to cut, nothing; for this there is no misery. For example, the new Foreign Office, created to internationalize a unilateral secession process that is illegal and to launch a parliamentary resolution annulled by the Constitutional Court. Just as the Generalitat de Catalunya is the most competent regional government in Europe, because what matters to our government is not to manage decentralization, it was and is important to focus on and spend on the political project of a few, even if it is not within our competence, spending on the wrong at the expense of itself. And, of course, autonomous funding will never be available to cover decentralized and non-decentralised competences as well. We argue that a new, fairer, more supportive and equitable funding model needs to be articulated. And it should be remembered that the People's Party voted against the current model, the model of Zapatero, Montilla and Mr Mas, which solved the problem of autonomous financing. Of course, the first thing that needs to be done is to manage what you have well, to size the Administration to the resources available and to spend on what is important to people. To check that this is not and has not been the case, there is nothing but to enter the website of the Generalitat, Budget Portal 2015: total budget of the Generalitat, 36,942_million_de_euros; budget that reaches the departments of the Generalitat, 21,700_millions; the difference, 15,200_millions_de_euros that remain on the way. Where? For, mainly in paying the debt– 7,000_million_of_euros– and in sustaining the most expensive autonomous public sector in Spain. Here we have it: autonomous entities, entities governed by public law, commercial companies, consortia, foundations, which cost more than 8,000_million_of_euro per year consolidated. According to official data, Catalonia held in July last almost four hundred public entities, the highest figure in Spain, followed by Andalusia, with three hundred_thirty; and then came Madrid, one hundred_fifty; Galicia or Valencia, one hundred_fifth. Between Catalonia and Andalusia we are maintaining 41_per_cent of all public entities in Spain. And all this without counting the part – impossible to know – of the budget of the departments of the Generalitat – the 21,000_million – that are dedicated to subsidies and expenses that have nothing to do with the competences and the priority commitments of the Generalitat, as would be, for example, to pay the salary to the officials. We say that it is impossible to know why we are still waiting in the People's Group, for example, to clarify the expenses of the Independent Diplomat or to facilitate the Generalitat the agreements for which it has been paying Ómnium Cultural for a long time about 1_million_of_euro per year. In parliamentary appearance we asked her president how she could know what was being spent on promoting Catalan, which we supported, and what was being spent on political action. And her president told us that this was impossible to know, because it's all political action in life. That is, we have been subsidizing separatist political action without being able to know the conventions or the justification for how this subsidy was being implemented. It is curious, for example, how the invoices are not paid to the pharmacies but all the costs of the Tricentenary were paid; how the Councillor Romeva announces to us seventeen new embassies, which we assume will be equipped with a staff who will be paid a salary, but there is no money to pay to the officials who are already on the payroll of the Generalitat. In the end, the excuse is a bad one, because the Government of the Generalitat has continued to fund its separatist process, for which it has no competence, with the public resources that, for example, corresponded to these officials. This government has turned its officials into capitalist partners of its strategy, despite the protests, the closures, the opposition of all the unions. It must also be said, from what we have been able to know, that we do not approve at all the attitude of the government in office since last September regarding trade union representatives, avoiding and delaying the convening of the negotiating table, coming without proposals, without any spirit of consensus, leaving the unions planted, even using in a partial and biased way the portal Atri. We denounce it here publicly, but we also ask the newly confirmed adviser to change her mind and strategy, because it is urgent and it is possible to find a solution, as has been done in the rest of Spain, and also in the rest of Catalan administrations. And it is that the Catalan Government bears the dubious honour of being at the head of the cuts of the officials and at the tail of the returns. All autonomy, except Catalonia, have sat down to negotiate how to return the cutback, have reached agreements and is beginning to pay; autonomy that has also been called for a great effort to reduce the deficit, autonomy that demands more resources, and in addition to all political colors. The situation in Catalonia is unjustifiable, unique and peculiar. All because we have an autonomous government that prioritizes expenses where neither the pharmacies nor the officials enter; that strives to pay for structures of a state that is not, while not paying the payroll that touches it; that distracts talent, resources and dedication to the effective and sensible performance of the competencies that touch it. For all these reasons, which we understand to be of the utmost justice, we have put forward this proposal. Because we believe that the fundamental thing is to listen to the citizens and reach agreements to solve the problems, we have supported the transaction that we have been negotiating this morning. We thank the Government for making its position more flexible, even as a result of political pressure, as well as the unity of the trade unions and the opposition. And we also want to thank the unions for their confidence in our parliamentary work. We, in short, demand justice, stability, good governance and common sense. This is where we are and we will continue to work. Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.119.0	The words of Mr Benet Salellas, of the Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.120.0	Thank you, President. We, well, in the first place we would celebrate that we have reached a consensus with all the forces of the chamber, and above all, with the union forces, that they are the ones who have been working all this question and that they are the authentic, I believe, protagonists, right? , of this resolution that we are discussing today. But with CUP - Crida Constituent we want to make some reflections, if you allow yourself, in this sense, don't you? In the first place, another time, we cannot accept or we cannot understand that it is about the question of the pay of the officials and the whole question, in a way, of the presupposition of the Generality of Catalonia and that it is not about Article 135 of the Constitution. It's a little bit – I say it again, I said it before, I used the phrase "hypocrit" – I think it's hypocrit or contradictory at least. PSC, PP, please, Article 135 of the Constitution: you are the ones who amended the Constitution to ensure that it is paid before the market debts, than the social rights of people, and also the salaries of public workers; so now you do not come to use an absolute chicken-flying strategy to come here to stand up for public workers, because this does not have any type of credibility when you are the ones who impose on the whole of the State, constitutionally, via Article 135, which first are the markets, first are the interests of the debtor, and then what you can pay. Therefore, I would ask for a little coherence and less, let's say, political hypocrisy in this sense. This, the presuppositional question and the question of Article 135, was totally linked to the presuppositional situation of the Generality and to the shame and humiliation that the institution of the FLA supposes, that the company Marta Rovira, therefore, has explained perfectly before and that it has left us Catalonia no longer as – I don't know how you say it sometimes, right? – the most decentralized of Europe or with the most quasi-federal existence in Europe, but in a mere Spanish administrative autonomy, with an economic margin absolutely insufficient and minimal, right? However, in any case, these are macro-political questions which we do not have on the table and which should be put here today, but in all the speeches which have been made, we have found that we do not know that, in the band of talking about the salaries of the employees, it is also spoken of the salary situation of the remaining workers and workers who are not working, who are a mass, many of them invisible precarious and who have been triplely affected by the crisis, in the sense of the reduction of wages which has been good for the workers and workers in the private sector of this country; the plague of invisible ERO which we have encountered in the sector of peppers and which, unfortunately, by its obvious invisibility, therefore, has not been seen in the political and political parties of this country. We do not forget this and we do not forget it, in any debate I have to see with the situation of the workers and workers, we have to put it on the table. And we have to put it on the table because it seems unworthy to us that the question of the undersides of public workers is used as a weapon between political parties. We think that the question of the salaries of public workers is a question that deserves a national approach and that deserves more country visit. And in this sense, both the parliamentary left and an important part of the unions, I think we should make some self-criticism, right? , because at a time like this pose as the only subject of debate the recovery of the extra pay of the employees at a time when we give a subsidy of 426_euro to the people who have nothing to live for, without making a general reflection on the public debt, without making a general reflection of what is the minimum salary of the non-staff, of the minimum income, of the guaranteed income, without making a general reflection on those cures that are not remunerated, on the unrecognized work, on the immigrant workforce, is to say, without making a general reflection, in which it seems that it is a strictly partial and totally insufficient vision. We bet because all the parliamentary groups that have subscribed to this proposal today and all the unions that have also participated in this negotiation, we think we have to face this whole set of problems and face not only the front of the question of the extra pay of public workers, but also all these issues that are essential in relation to the labour market. That said, we obviously bet to get the pay back, we do it in defense of the public sector. Catalonia is... there's a lot of data on this, we don't know who the right ones are. What is clear is that we have lost thousands of public jobs since the beginning of the retail trade. Some data speak of 6,000 places of work; of others, 10,000; even Pimec has come to speak of 15,400 places of public work that by means of depreciation and reduction of places of work..., which occurred in the public sector in Catalonia. This detail of thousands of jobs has been accompanied by a situation, which is what we have in Catalonia, which is the lowest public worker ratio in Spain and Europe, isn't it? In Catalonia, at least from the data we have, we have a public worker for every twenty-five inhabitants. And this, for example, compared with Extremadura, where there is a public worker for every so-called inhabitants, or with Germany, where there is a public worker for every divided inhabitants, or with Sweden, where there is a public worker for every eight inhabitants, so it shows that, obviously, our public sector today is still smaller than it should be. And it is smaller than it should be for a policy that has been completed, therefore, for the Convergence Government, but also for the former tripartite governments, which have not somehow known how to develop this public sector sufficiently and which has somehow ended up generating, as we think, public services of less quality than we should have. In any case – I will not enlarge –, right? , you know that since the CUP - Creed We are betting for an economic model change; we bet, somehow, for, while this economic model change does not exist, build certain dictates against this saving capitalism, and we think that some solid public servants are precisely, can be a counterbalance to this saving neoliberalism that we live in. Therefore, we are betting to strengthen the public sector, thinking that it is an authentic counterbalance to the situation of inequality that is experienced in our society; as more public sector, major social policies and greater equality and greater social justice. And we think, therefore, that in the end the debate is not so much what we have, but how we distribute it. And that's why we're thinking – and we're putting forward a first proposal in the area of public salaries – that we might start thinking about a maximum of public salaries, accompanied by a minimum topall, and so, little by little, correcting these unders so scandalous, so scandalously high that they exist in such small parts of the Administration. In any case, we are betting for this strong public sector, for these public services that allow us to vertebrate the country territorially and guarantee universal access to basic services and to the guarantee of the rights of the people. And, therefore, we, accompanied by the people who are mobilized, the unions and the collectives of public workers in this country, will defend this public sector until the end, we will defend with our nails everything that is necessary, and we think, therefore, that defending the public sector must also include defending the working conditions of these public workers, because they are the guarantee that public services exist and remain of quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.121.0	Next, for the defense of the emena presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, has the words of the illustrious Lord Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.122.0	Too late for everyone. Very happy, because I think we have a very powerful agreement, and I find it hard that most people have come out to explain it angry. I mean, in any case, I'm convinced, because we've all signed it, that we'll approve it unanimously, and I don't think we'd have to be angry with good things, but in any case, everyone can feel like anyone. We are talking about one of the most affected by the crisis, the most affected by the effects of retailing in the most difficult times. It's obvious that they've been very complicated years for what he does to the public service, not very fair. But I think we've tried here many times to explain that they were inevitable for the migration of resources we've had. We couldn't let him go back until 2015. 2015 is the first time that public workers recover all payments, and all payments are not the same as all rights, but all pay them. And today, and I believe that with the generosity of everyone, we make an agreement that starts to make possible the return of the pendant, with a realistic calendar, which is what we explained yesterday, that until we have made this agreement impossible; that leaves its space at the table, because it is at the table where we will bring the realization of this agreement – we do not want, we cannot, nor do we need to replace social concertation; therefore, there is a space where this has to be done –; an agreement that adds, in addition, to the hope of yesterday of '1_per_cent. It was a long time ago that we didn't feel like we were talking about sou increments. So, where were we yesterday and where are we today? Yesterday, with a motion for a resolution, which involved a direct expenditure of EUR 450_million and which, moreover, spoke of one_second, we were talking about the external payments of 2013 and 2014, of 620 each; therefore, three measures totalling EUR 1,800_million. And we don't stick our hands on these rights, boss; now, it was obvious that we should put a dose of realism on it, because everyone we are here today knows that the Generality doesn't have 1,800_million euros to deal with this situation today. But it's not like I don't have 1,800, but I don't have 450. And we know that so much if we're closer to or farther away ideologically. And, for that matter, yesterday, what did we ask for? Seny, you're going to make a deal, which we were able to make a calendar that was actually possible to complete. Because this will be the government that will make independence, but in the band of this also has to be an honest government, that what it is committed to can be completed with truth. And today we can't get out of here with a parliamentary agreement that you come to an agreement that would make it impossible for the government to complete. Therefore, today all this situation has been corrected; we avoid that there is this increase in the deficit of 1,800_million euros, because we remember that, if this was approved, it would go directly to counting on the deficit; that it would also force us on the priorities of the Treasury, and, therefore, it would move any other type of social expenditure, because it would go to the front. And, therefore, we now have an agreement that allows us to keep our accounts in balance, which starts to take the form of this return operation to the workers of the pending days, which allows us to start turning to these austerity policies of the past years, and we avoid approving something that we cannot complete. So, we don't have many more things to explain, what we want to do is thank everyone for their good will. In the departments, I think I need to do it especially, both in the Department of Governance..., that they have been in front of this situation in the last few days and that today, therefore, I think we must congratulate everyone that we can take a step forward. Also in the Department of Economy, where there are a lot of people who are just today taking on their responsibilities, starting to see what the state of affairs is, and to which, therefore, a little we have put them between the span and the wall in order to start from the first day taking a step forward. The majority trade unions at the table, which we have all three of them here, because I believe that without their views it would be impossible to reach this agreement with the six parliamentary groups which, therefore, are in line with the whole parliamentary arch. But above all, we must also congratulate the workers, the public workers, because this agreement, basically, benefits them. And I'd like to add this room too, because at the end of this is the first ordinary agreement of the legislature and I think it's very positive that this first ordinary agreement today takes it for granted and that it starts with an agreement that is social. And I think that's why we don't have to congratulate each other. I make a very brief summary of the interventions of each of the groups that have done so before us, graced, coming out of the inician, graced everyone to all of their interventions. It seems to us that Ciutadans well did not conform to the truth, that he drew from the usual topics, and, therefore, we have heard about the embassies; we have found it missing during the last months, we have found it missing in this case TV3... Listen, we, I say again, thank you for agreeing. To the PSC, to Mrs Romero, to remind her, because she has obliged us, that the first detail is of May 12, 2010. Therefore, here there has been an imbalance in the data and in the authors, and it is May 12, 2010, it is Madrid and it is Zapatero. But nothing happens– nothing happens. [[Widow's remorse.]] And you say to us: "Home, this we could have done with time and before. I'm sure yes, I'm sure it can always be much better, but I think it was a lot more legitimate to make this deal with the incoming government than it was in the outgoing government's situation. Therefore, I believe that in the end we agree and that we have done it in the best way that we can do it. To me, Vidal... I understand that they don't like us saying they're angry, but you come out here with something that you signed, that they voted for, and they explain it as if it was a disaster, right? And the deal's his, too, and they signed it. And so, I just confirm that they're going to be sick. Says: 'You make'mquedar ill. We'll make them stay badly, because we'll complete what's approved. So leave him here. We'll make them look bad. And to the lady caves, good summary. I think he's made a good summary of what the retail situation is in the case of Catalan public workers. I think he's gone wild. And, therefore, he has also made a good summary of how the workers are not the retailers... – now I see it – the public workers, but all the Catalans in general. And he's just asking for a little thought, huh? Maybe this could be one of the motivators that you're making the Catalans today in their major amplification remain independent. But anyway, this is a reflection that you have to do. And at the CUP, just thank him for his good will. I think good will is the main thing to be able to come to terms with. I think we've tried it since the first moment, and finally, we've done it. There's already a topall, a topall at most, but that's what we'll have time to talk about one day with Mr. Salellas, because we've given it many times – many times – the last term, and that topall already exists. I ended up making a summary of what we have, which is very much: an agreement respects 2012 that ensures that, as very, very late, the first quarter of 2018 will have recovered the full pay – nor is it very innovative, I believe that today all communities have agreed to it, and for example what the Balearic Islands has to do with it – a commitment to work at the Public Service Bureau to set a date for the recovery of the 2016 period of leave and vacation, and a commitment to schedule the return of payments for 2013 and 2014. Therefore, we approve an agreement, but we leave a lot of work to the Civil Service Bureau. We encourage all who are part of it, therefore, to pull forward this work, this intense work. And I end up, therefore, giving thanks again, once more, to everyone's effort and generosity; to Chakir, a racing companion all morning. And above all to thank the public workers, as we always do, as always, his pocket to the service of the country and understood that they have had at this stage of adjustment that is now beginning to reverse. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.123.0	In accordance with Rule 165.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposing parliamentary groups have a final two-minute turn to indicate the text they put to the vote and the documents they accept. On behalf of all, has the parable the illustrious lady Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.124.0	Well, in two minutes, a lot of things can be said. We accept..., that is to say, we have submitted a compromise to all the groups, which, as we have said, we have all said, the one that sets out is a pay schedule for 2012 2016 and 2017, and the reversal of the majority of social rights for 2012, and the rest of the payments, 2013 and 2014, to negotiate with the Bureau of Public Service, that we hope, therefore, that, as Mr Sabrià said, this proposal is complete that we expect today to approve and that the Government, therefore, will hardly make us remain a little skeptical with what we are today. But let me tell you something. Home, the opposition groups are not told what we present or how we present it; the opposition groups are doing our job. As long as you agree with what's coming here today, you haven't reached November or December, or the 15th generation, and we wouldn't have needed this debate. If the government has sat down and had a willingness to negotiate, we won't be here today; that's it, with it working or not working, because. As Mr Sabria said very well, many autonomous communities, many together, many deputies, have already made the reinstatement of part of the 2012 pay. Therefore, we do our job, we listen to many citizens who come to see us, in this case the unions, who carry many months fighting to get this reversal of rights, we have listened to them and we have put forward a proposal. This is the work of opposition; they will like it better or they will like it less, but this is our work. And in any case, to say that the groups that conform to the government and support the government are the ones who have to face the challenges and we try, from the opposition, to help them as far as possible. We think that this measure that we approve today achieves this, so good we don't have to get it, but we did, and so good, so we can get it in other things. We are satisfied because it improves, it will improve the conditions of the workers of the Government of Catalonia. And let's hope that this is complete and that it follows the negotiations to agree schedules that allow the reversal of all these rights that have been discussed here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.125.0	Call it a vote. [[Pause.]] We will now vote on the motion for a resolution, with the incorporation of the two transactional items submitted to the register and which have been signed by all parliamentary groups. Mrs García Cuevas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.126.0	For allusions and contradictions, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.127.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.128.0	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.129.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.130.0	Thank you, President. Well, to make it clear, for the record, that article 135 of the Constitution does not say that officials must be stopped paying. I understand that some, therefore, feel in need, and will feel the whole legislature, to go saving the face of the Government of the Generalitat, but the truth is that 135 applies to all Spain, and all administrations, except the Generalitat, are paying. This is what is evidence, not a slogan to distort reality and confuse people. Thank you, President. [[Marc Vidal and Pou ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.131.0	Mr. Marc Vidal?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.132.0	For allusions, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.133.0	Okay. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.134.0	Yes; thirty-seconds. Miri, Mr. Sabrià – that I don't see..., ah! , you're there–, I'm not angry– with the smile, the revolt, and forgive, Lluís, that I'm grabbing you–, nor do I think it's a bad deal– I think the deal is good–, I simply show my mistrust of you. And that's why I'll thank him, and I insist, that you make me look bad to regain that trust. Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.135.0	Does he ask for the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.136.0	Yes; he asks for the word for allusions to answer the lady Caves very briefly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.137.0	Okay. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.138.0	I won't have a chance to be told here anymore, but I'll accept to be told outside the room. If it wasn't for that, why was Article 135 introduced and why was it done for a procedure that wasn't democratic? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-20-0701.139.0	Let us then proceed to the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 128 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Thank you all very much. And the session goes up.
