ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.1.0	The session begins. Very good morning to all of you. [[Widow's remorse.]] The list of questions to answer is included in the Ple's file – please, we have started the session –; according to Rule 161, they will be replaced this morning. Why ask me the word, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.2.0	Madam President, it is in order to request that the item on the motion submitted by the CUPs, item 16, should not be included on this agenda. I would ask this group to put this item on the agenda to the vote of the plenary because we believe that this item contradicts and violates the ruling of the Constitutional Court on the resolution of 9 November of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.3.0	Mr. Millo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.4.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. In the same sense of the intervention that preceded me, and since Rule 81.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia requires that there be at least two parliamentary groups calling for it to be excluded from the agenda of the day from a point previously admitted to the Bureau, we call for the inclusion of a point on the agenda of the day to be included in the vote which, when we hear it at the front with the content of a ruling of the Constitutional Court, cancels a resolution which claims to be developed through this motion presented to the CUP and negotiated with Juntes for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.5.0	Mr. Iceta, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.6.0	For a point of order, President. [[Pause.]] I see that two groups have called for the alternation of the agenda, and therefore this will have to be substantiated, but our group wanted to raise a preliminary question, because indeed the motion that is the seventh item of the agenda was admitted to be sent conditionally to the Bureau and even announced the possibility that the Speaker of the Parliament proposed to the plenary that was voted out, we would say, or separate from the agenda. Since you have not done so, do we suppose that the Bureau considers those elements that make it, we would say, inadmissible to proceed in the first instance?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.7.0	As you say, Mr Iceta, this is a decision of the Bureau; it is the Bureau that decides the agenda, and therefore we will decide it. And the announcements that it takes this afternoon, at the end of this session, we'll make an extraordinary meal. Let us continue, then, with the order of the day. I remember them too... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.8.0	Yeah. I believe that a regulatory request has been made by two groups in this House to put the amendment to the agenda to the vote. And I believe that, as has been stated in the Rules of Procedure, this vote should be taken.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.9.0	Okay. We'll suspend the session for a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.10.0	Let's resume the session. In response to the Ciutadans spokesman's petition, as this point of the order of the day does not affect today's session, this vote in any case will be taken tomorrow morning at nine o'clock. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, it doesn't affect today's session; it affects tomorrow's session, because you're referring to a... [[Widow's remorse.]] Before we substantiate this vote, we'll do it tomorrow morning. Okay? And, besides, how late we'll have a table... this late we'll have a table and tomorrow – tomorrow – before we substantiate this point, this young man, we'll make this vote. Okay? [[Marta Rovira and Vergés ask to speak.]] Mrs. Rovira? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Rovira...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.11.0	To position us, too, with the group. As this debate is not new..., we discussed the two sets of spokespersons who respected it, where even yesterday legal reviews were discussed with respect to the point that affected this motion, and in the two sets of spokespersons the Bureau communicated to us what would be the way to proceed to the vote on this point, applying Rule 81.3, which was just before the substance of the point. Therefore, we would ask that we continue as predicted, that it is just before, in any case, the substance of this point is able to vote whether or not you stand, therefore, to change the order of the day, as predicted and as nshavia said. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.12.0	Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.13.0	I understand that Mrs Marta Rovira is seeking to see a kind of tacit agreement prevail over when to vote if this, that prevails over the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. And what I am asking is that the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber be applied, which is that, at the beginning of the sitting, at the request of two parliamentary groups, the inclusion or not of any item on the agenda can be put to the vote, and it is at the beginning of the sitting and not in the middle of it, as it would be if we did tomorrow. I therefore believe that if the President considers that this should not be the case, I would ask, at least, that it be based at least on what rule of the Rules of Procedure they are based on to deny something that is contained in the Rules of Procedure and not on the wishes of the House, of the parliamentary groups, on the Bureau itself. [[Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.14.0	Mr. Coscubila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.15.0	Thank you, Madam President. As we have all been able to prove, we have never thought that this point of the order of the day, among other things, because we legitimately understand the views of other groups; we will never do anything but prevent a debate, much as we seem to be clever, like what we are going to do around this young man. That said, Madam President and members of the Bureau, I would like to remind you – and I have already done so yesterday at the Board of Spokesmen – that the Bureau of the previous week adopted a surprising decision, such as that of the conditional admission, a creative interpretation of the Rules, if not, which conditioned the final admission of this motion to certain conditions laid down by the Bureau, which were that I did not suppose a contrary fact, a contradiction, an incompliment of the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Who was submissive to this condition and the ruling of the Constitutional Court was the Bureau. At the meeting of yesterday, of the Bureau and of the Board of Spokesmen, it was said that it was not possible to make the decision because there was still time to present an alternative motion. The alternative motion is presented – yesterday, at six o'clock. We have had time to read it all, and all the groups of this chamber and all the Members have the right and obligation to ask the Bureau to tell us, before the beginning of this session, what is the Bureau's opinion with regard to the criteria of the previous week. And pardon, Madam President, pardon, members of the Bureau, it is obvious that this is a single plenary, with two sessions, and the agenda is one, not two. And, therefore, the approval of the order of the day must be made today. Therefore, we have not asked for its exclusion, we will not ask it, but, if you please, Madam President, members of the Bureau, do what you have to do, but, if you please, do not contribute any more to the degradation of the first institution in Catalonia, which is Parliament. Please ask them on behalf of our group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.16.0	I would ask you to refrain from making these comments. [[Widow's remorse.]] I shall now read Article 81.3, to which I refer: "The order of the day of the plenary may be altered if the plenary agrees, on the proposal of the president or at the request of two parliamentary groups or of a part of the members of the Parliament, and may also be altered when it requires the compliment of a law. If an undertaking is to be included, it must have completed the regulatory procedures which allow it to be included, with an explicit agreement to the contrary, by an absolute majority. I, in this article, do not see that the plenary is to be suspended at the beginning of the session, but that it can be suspended at any time of the session, as there are precedents in this chamber. And, therefore, it can be altered at any time of the session, and we already have precedents in this chamber. And so we will do; we will do it tomorrow morning, as I said before. Do... [[Anna Gabriel and Sabaté ask to speak.]] Mrs. Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.17.0	Yes; very good morning to you all. What seems to us to be absolutely sceptical is the little democracy that this chamber endures, and what seems to us to be absolutely unacceptable is what the Constitutional Court says about popular legitimacy. And we are very concerned that we have the Constitutional Court, the National Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office here. That's what you should be worried about. [[Some applause.]] You act democratic, and you don't do it for the debate. [[Marta Rovira and Vergés ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.18.0	Mrs. Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.19.0	I only wanted to read or ask the Bureau, if you please, to read Article 81.3, because in any event at which time it may be requested, according to the requests, to alter the order of the day of the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.20.0	That's what we read. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.21.0	Well, I would ask the CUP to be able to accommodate the application of laws and regulations also in this Parliament and please do not give us rallies, that we do not need lessons in democracy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.22.0	Let's continue the Plea. The record, also, the delegation of vote that, according to Rule 93 of the Rules, have made the deputies Alicia Romero Llano, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and Àngels Martínez Castells, of the Catalonia Parliamentary Group Yes, it is possible, in their respectable spokesman, Mrs Eva Granados and Mr Joan Coscubiela. So, I would also like to greet the new Member of Parliament, Maria Francisca Valle, who joined this plenary session today and held a Moguda session. [[Ask the Government about the closure of P3 lines]] [[310-00037/11]] The first point of the order of the day are asked to the Government. The first question is about the closure of the P3 lines. The question is posed by Mrs Pilar Castillejo, of the Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.23.0	Yeah. Good morning to all Members and Deputies. We address our question to the Councillor of Education, Mrs Meritxell Ruiz. Tomorrow the school pre-registration period is over and for the next course already closed to the pre-registration sixty-six groups of P3 – the councillor announced it in a press wheel –; sixty-four of these groups, from the public school, and only three, from the concerted school. What criteria explains that, before the pre-registration period, and therefore, without waiting to know the real will and bet of families for the public school, you have access to all these public centers, if you do not allow to offer places, but, in change, to the concerted centers, you do keep the offer?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.24.0	Counselor Meritxell Ruiz responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.25.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member, what we have to explain is that the programming that it does is to give response to the need for schooling that a country has; it is to say, as soon as you know the standard of P3 and as soon as you know the evolution of the first ESO students, you have to make the offer that gives response to these needs. We find ourselves in a situation that we have never encountered in the democratic history of this country, which is that there is a decrease of seven thousand students at the entrance to P3. And, therefore, what we've done is take those decisions that don't involve a long-range injury. You explicitly asked me what these criteria are, and I explain that. If the only one we're doing is making numbers, we divide these seven-thousand underage students into P3 by 20 or 20, we'd have to offer about 350 smaller groups. And that's not what we did. What have we done? In those municipalities where there is danger that we will end up shutting down an education project and a public school, where there is danger of ending up stigmatizing more schools, where there is danger that families..., it is clear that after asking for their pre-registration, if there is not enough, we will have to send them officers, we have these decisions. And that's what we've done, in most cases, with an agreement with the assembly. Because we have to bear in mind that, before a flood of seven thousand students, if we do not make a decision what we would provoke, at length, if we left it only to the offer and the demand – the law of the offer and the demand –, what would cause is that there would be many educational projects that would end up closing and stigmatizing schools. And that's why we have this decision, pre-registration. Despite this, there is a final offer that depending on the pre-registration, so this demand will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.26.0	I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.27.0	All right, thank you very much. What we are asking, concretely, is this difference in criteria between the public school and the concerted school. It is true that it lowers the birth rate and also lowers the demand, but this demand lowers to the public and lowers to the concerted. And say they're not... say they're doing it with this intent, not to close schools and to defend the education model. We are not saying that nothing is done; we are saying that what is being done at these times is to shield the concert and protect the concerted centers. You know, you know how close... [[For technical reasons, some words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] , by way of departure– forgiving–, you know that close-out groups to public schools will keep the groups from the concerted schools. That's why it's called privatization, and every time it's less covered up. That they are enhancing the concerted school above the public we see in examples as, for example, to Lleida, where the territorial services have communicated..., because the course 2016-17 tank a line of P3, for example, to the Ciutat Jardí School, tank two in this city, arguing the low birth rate; but to the same area where this school is operating a new line with a concerted school, only that the fulcrum with came requests. Another example that is potentiates the concerted over the public, it can have, for example, Arenys de Mar or Malgrat. In Malgrat we have two lines of public school and five lines of concerted school. Our reception to face the demographic decline of the school population is clear, and it doesn't mean we don't make anything or make decisions: we bet to reduce rates; it's an opportunity to be able to better serve the student and increase the educational quality of our public schools. The countries, at this time, in Catalonia are over the middle of the Spanish State, and it is one of the highest in the whole of the European Union. The Government expresses the need to expand the social base and make a better social policy. The choice between reducing rates or closing public lines is a clear indication of whether this is really the will and what is the model of country we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.28.0	Mrs. Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.29.0	Thank you. Madam MP, no, we're not doing anything private. What we do is act, like the title that we are from the public school, to try to avoid what we are telling them. I give you an example of a municipality in Baix Llobrega where we have various centres. If we haven't made any decisions, the most likely is that there have been three educational projects that need to be closed. Therefore, before this is what we have done is to reduce a line, to lower the rates in centres of maximum complexity... They know that this is also a decision that has this government, that in the centres of maximum complexity where there is agreement and the assembly also agrees to lower the rate, precisely because it is in these centres where most need we have to pay different attention to these students. And, therefore, with the drop-off in groups to the public that we know would not reach twenty-five, and this line lock that we have made, prevent, we will certainly avoid locking two and a possible third. Finally, tell him that the Lleida center that you tell me is not a concertation, it's not a new concertation, it's an administrative authority, that if they fulfill the requirements we are obliged to do it, but we have to tell him that it's not...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.30.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.31.0	...is not a new line of concertation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.32.0	Second question to the Government, about people in a situation of dependence. [[Ask the Government about dependent people]] [[310-00038/11]] The question is posed by Mr Raúl Moreno of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.33.0	President... From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we want to know what is the government's understanding of the people who are in a situation of dependence, concretely, for what it does to those people with disabilities and those who are found to be pending a benefit linked to residence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.34.0	Answer the question Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.35.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Member, and many thanks for the question, because how much government we want to explain to us. As you know, or as we have had occasion to talk about it, we are working hard to resolve the problems with dependent people. We are deploying the 2006 law and, therefore, we are holding work meetings with the whole sector. At these times there are 142,900 beneficiaries; therefore, we are giving a total of 180,333 benefits. At the valuations of the degree of dependence we have solved a 97,1_per_cent of the people who requested it, and in the revisions of the degree we are at a 93,7_per_cent. So, you see that what we're doing is work; work, one behind the other. In these moments, grade 1 of dependency has entered in order to be able to value it. We're making this great effort to maintain the system. And above all, remember that the details of the Spanish Government in Catalonia have caused us to stop collecting 336 million euros, which would have allowed at these times to finance the Law of Dependence with 18,150 new places of residence, which is what you ask me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.36.0	Thank you, President. Madam Councillor, the Socialist Party of Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is possible to present in the past Ple d'emergència social a motion for a resolution calling for the withdrawal of the order of co-sponsorship of the year 2014; a proposal that was rejected for the votes of the Junts parties for the Yes and the CUP. Just a week ago, the Committee on Social Affairs and the Family approved a new motion for a resolution, which now calls on the Government to withdraw this order, which is particularly hard on people with disabilities. Accumulating their assets and rendering them has increased the co-payment of the service by 40_per_cent, and in many cases they have left people with disabilities with a little more than a hundred euros a month. But that's not the only problem with dependent people. In 2013, the Government eliminated aid to those families that, because of lack of seats, could not access a public residence, a private residence had to be paid. They eliminated the benefits linked to their payment and, therefore, the universal character of the law. In view of the disaster of this decision, it was then decided to give aid only to those large dependents who complemented with restricted economic criteria, and later it was promised to include grade 2, which did not occur. Parliament is the best place to remember that the vast majority of families in Catalonia are unable to pay between 1,300 and 2,400_euro per month for a place of residence. Remember also that the Law of Dependency is underfunded by the Government of the State, but you with your orders are making the situation even worse. Just one example: yesterday the Valencian Community announced that it would allocate 28_million euros to pay all the debt pending against the six_ thousand dependent people; a government with an economic situation and will finance very complicated, but also with other priorities. Will you advise, guarantee, as you approved last week's Social Affairs Commission, the residency-related benefits to all those who seek them? And, in relation to the co-sponsorship, will this Parliament's mandate that it will withdraw the co-sponsorship order of 2014 be carried out?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.37.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.38.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Congressman, we are working, as I said, to solve the issues that are pending. Anyway, it is important to know that as for the co-payment, of the 10_euros that correspond..., of every 10_euros, 1.46 is paid by the State, the user pays 1 and mig– so, the State is paying less than the user – and the Generality is putting 7,30 cents. Therefore, the topic of co-sponsorship is very clear as it is. Tell him that we are working with the help of economic services, economic services linked to residences. In fact, by today's day, last year there were 6,725 performances and today we have 8,720. As a result, it has increased, basically, progressively very much. In the residences, the waiting lists, we are trying to reduce them. We are working to create new places, both on the part of speciality, and in the last time we have created 775 with specialized social services, and with the general we are working. And we work to increase the amount in each person's personal expenses to the residences, from 20_per_cent they hold now from IPREM to possibly 50_per_cent, as regards intellectual disabilities, and from 30_per_cent to 60 in physical disabilities. We're still working with the people in the sector...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.39.0	Counselor, he's run out of time. [[Ask the Government about bilingual schooling]] [[310-00040/11]] Third question to the Government, on bilingual schooling. The question is posed by Ms. María José García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.40.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Education Advisor, we have learned that the families that decided to take their children to private bilingual schools because the Generalitat denied them bilingual public schooling are receiving letters signed by the General Secretariat of the Education Council. They are informed of several bilingual schools close to their home, the Servei d'Educació and that they have a week to apply for a place, with the threat of losing LOMCE support. Several questions. How is the square guaranteed? Are these families going to pass in front of others who have more points in the barem? Do bilingual public schools really exist free of charge? Is it that immersion will no longer be the public universal system in Catalan school? Or are you cheating on these families?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.41.0	Reply to the Teaching Councillor, Mrs Meritxell Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.42.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, it is true that we have sent a letter to these families, because what LOMCE says, its law, is that we have to make a sufficient offer of places where there is also the castle in a non-linguistic matter. So, what we've done with these families, which we have to remember are families... the approved consignors, who are already moving to a private center, are saying that in the fund we are paying their schooling in a private center, that they have a plaza to the Education Service of Catalonia where, by linguistic project, they have some non-linguistic matter in castle. And, therefore, we have informed them of this option.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.43.0	I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.44.0	Thank you. Honourable Counselor of Teaching, the first thing that is surprising is that now, suddenly, there are so many public schools that give non-linguistic subjects in Spanish, when a year ago, and after nine months asking, it was impossible for them to give us this information, neither to us nor to the ministry. It is also surprising that you did not offer these schools to parents when they asked for them. Has language policy suddenly changed? Or is it not, counselor, that you are lying? Look, here's the written answer to a family from one of their bilingual schools. And, look: « 2,75_weekly hours of Spanish language, and the rest – it says here – « Catalan as a language of learning. A typical Catalan immersion school. And he's not the only one; there's more. Neither do they have free places, nor are they free of charge, nor are they in the municipality of the family. Look, we find it very serious to offer bilingual public schools that are not, that have no places, that are not free, forty kilometers from the homes of families, girls' schools for children; and, in addition, threatening and pressured families to inform and decide in less than a week. So far you have imposed immersion in violation of the law, and now that you have all the court rulings against you resort to deception, confusion and coercion. Honourable Counselor, are you already applying the Koiné manifesto? , an infamous manifesto already signed by two former education counselors. One more insult. Is this your policy of imposing language against the law, common sense, social reality and the will of families? Honourable Counselor of Education, did you know these letters, signed by your secretary-general? Who will answer for this fraud? Who will assume political responsibility for deceiving, fearing, harming and mocking these families? We are waiting for your answers, because the People's Party is not going to allow you to make fun of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.45.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.46.0	Thank you. The honourable Member, in any case, who is mocking the families is LOMCE, because she imposes a system that does not exist and, moreover, does so so well that she does not..., or so, what you asked us at the beginning, to say: "Listen to me, will this place guarantee? , is that the LOMCE, in Article 84, does not set a point to sort language; it is to say, the same LOMCE recognizes that there is no more point to sort a language. In change, he did change it by the theme of nombrosian families. Therefore, if this was an interest that LOMCE held, what is very strange to us is that Article 84, in this, is not guaranteed. Therefore, he gives them or supposes that he gives them a right that he does not recognize, because this does not give them any more points. Madam Member, they are not bilingual schools, they are schools that have a linguistic project where the educational community has decided to make a non-linguistic matter in castle, as in most or many centres, more than 58_percent of the centres, is done in English. And what have we done? Our obligation, which is: to inform these families that if they want a square in the Education Service of Catalonia where you are making a non-linguistic matter in the castle, they have centers in their area where this is done. And if that's not what they want to do, and what they want is for us to continue paying for private schooling in centres that are already there..., because that's not families that have asked for a place in centres of the Education Service of Catalonia, that they haven't found it going to the private service, no: they were families that were already in private centres and took advantage of this additional provision to go there. The thirty-nine cases recognized for the ministry are exactly like this. Therefore, what we offer them is a place for the Education Service of Catalonia, and if they don't want it, then, obviously, they have all the right to sort out another center. But the Education Service of Catalonia does not have bilingual schools, has educational projects that have other languages in non-linguistic subjects. And this is the offer we make to families. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.47.0	Fourth question to the Government, on the selves of the high charge and the directives of the public sector. [[Ask the Government about the high levels of government and the public sector guidelines]] [[310-00039/11]] The question is posed by Mr Albano Dante, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.48.0	Thank you, President. The year 2013, CIU decided to retaliate the extra pay to the Generalitat officials, as it had done in 2012, with the difference that 2013 needed the support of Republican Esquerra. And Esquerra Republicana gave support to this detail when you worked, but he said that, when I changed my support to it, I had obtained the Convergence compromise to fix a maximum wage to the high offices of the Generality, that they could not charge more than the son of a counselor. CIU accepted, and this was collected on Law 2/2014, but today, two years after that agreement, the only thing we know is that you'll be able to get rid of the flap from the first day, but the undersides of the top ranks haven't got rid of this flap. For example, we have the director of Barnaclinic, who charges 122,000 euros; we have the manager of the Consortium of the Port of Mataró, who charges 132,000 euros. These are just examples. And the question is if you could tell us what the government has planned to solve this problem at once.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.49.0	Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.50.0	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, the 2014 Law of Measures established, therefore, what was to be the sum of the executive staff of the public sector. And he was setting up two situations. One was for those persons who, in the case of director, staff of public director, once approved the law. In this case, therefore, from the outset, his salary had to be lower than that of a counselor. What happened to those cases where the contract was prior to the law? So, it was time to pull a rule forward – a rule that has its own difficulties, we would explain – and from here, there would be three_months because you can pose in that rule. Which, logically, this rule, as you can imagine, will establish that the topall is that of the counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.51.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.52.0	I insist: it makes the effect that it's very quick and very easy to retaliate when you're working, but it's more complicated to retaliate to what they're covering. And I'd ask you to tell us the exact date... – because we've been dancing with this theme for a long time –, the exact date, when we solve it, because it was two years ago. And they ask you for the exact date because, besides, you said that this was how we regulate retroactively, but it is that last week the Ara newspaper warned us that, today, people continue to engage that exceeds the legal topall, and, therefore, it continues to deepen in this topic. Another thing I wanted to ask you: I tried to see how much the director general of the Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, Josep Maria Campistol, and to the web of transparency says that there is no information. We want to know the answer to that. I'm done. A few weeks ago, here we made a plethora of social emergence. I'm sure all the problems we put on the table at that time will not be solved by completing this law. Now, I have the feeling that if we make these laws complete, we'll have a little more sense of being in a country where you charge them to everyone, and not just to some, before the government's inaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.53.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.54.0	Thank you, Madam President. Miri, the decree..., there's..., the decree we're working on. This is a decree that must be worked together by the Department of Economy and History, and also by whom it is spoken of, the Department of Governance, and logically it must be debated and approved by the government itself. This is a complex issue, it has to take into account many things: the premise, the volume of activity of the entities, the name of the workers, the external competitiveness, etc.; but it is obvious that this is an issue to which we must give priority and, therefore, I can advance that this decree soon, in a form, therefore, rather accelerated, can be definitively approved for the government. And, therefore, in three months, therefore, it will have to be applied in the case of the higher charges, to the direction of the public sector. Tell him, too, that all the funds that have been established from the approval of what is the law must complete this councillor's topall. And, therefore, everyone – and when you say everyone wants to say everyone – must comply with the rules in force. In this sense, it has been established recently that in order to avoid, therefore, dysfunctions or to guarantee clearly the compliment of the law, any staff, any pay change must be approved for the remuneration commission, and any one I am who exceeds the secretary general – and therefore with the councillor's top – must be definitively approved for the government. And, therefore, I insist: everyone – everyone – will have to put himself under this mandate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.55.0	Five questions to the Government about the situation of justice. [[Ask the Government about the situation of justice]] [[310-00041/11]] The question is posed by Mr Josep Maria Espejo, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.56.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor Mundó, the functioning of justice does not go through its best time, neither in Spain nor, in particular, in Catalonia. It turns out that Catalonia is one of the communities where congestion rates and unresolved issues are in many cases much worse than in other autonomous communities. And Catalonia has very important competences in this matter which I sincerely believe should be exercised without settling in the usual victimism of "everything is Madrid's fault or, "if we did it, we would do it better, because, in this case, you are doing it, and what is obvious is that you are doing it, I think, badly. And the question in this regard, Mr Councillor, is that how do you explain the resignation of no more than 503 seats, that the evil state, which wants to laminate the competences of Catalonia and always against its interests, had made available to your department and, therefore, and this is the most important thing, of all Catalans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.57.0	Reply by Mr. Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.58.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman, good morning. First of all, thank you for the question because, certainly, we share the interest that the Administration of Justice of Catalonia was better. I can't agree with the statement, that the resolution index in Catalonia is the worst in the State. Actually, if we look at statistics, it's the best. But that's not a good thing. [[Funnel veils]] We don't have to be satisfied with the outcome, because we certainly have a lot of work to do and we all want Justice Administration to work better, and that's why we take decisions that allow it to work better. One of them is to try to reduce the mobility of Justice Administration workers. And, in this sense, despite what you may believe, thinking that calling opposition to this template is more stable, the reality proves that it is not so. Because, in fact, of the opponents who come to oppose Catalonia, three_of_four come from other territories of the State, and the fact is that two_of_three, then they have the opportunity– that is, two years ago– return to their place of origin, and, therefore, the one that ends up causing the summoning of objections is to facilitate and promote mobility. For this reason, our proposal is not to call up oppositions and try, when this is possible, to call up competition-opposition to give stability to the persons concerned, which, in fact, are those who have the most experience and training and which allow us, too, to make the investment in training that we do with these workers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.59.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.60.0	Counselor, what is clear to me from your answer is that you do not want officials from other parts of the State, you want Catalan officials and you cannot move. That is what has made clear to me of his answer; he has not answered me. In addition, the temporary officials, to whom you have referred, can, by calling these places, precisely stabilize themselves and keep their jobs in Catalonia. What the acting officials do not have, at present, working in the Administration of Justice, is the guarantee of independence that an official with his fixed position has, because the acting officials of the Administration of Justice and of any other administration – which, by the way, in other departments of the Generalitat happens the same – is the guarantee of independence. You, with acting officials can do whatever you want, are subject to the will of the incumbent political leader. You could have called that huge number of places and resigned. Do not tell us again, I ask you, that if resources are lacking it is the fault of others or that the statistics I look at are wrong, because they are the statistics of the General Council of the Judiciary. Perhaps, those officials who want to leave, and that seems to you wrong, is that they do not want to work in a collapsed and congested administration, or perhaps it is because the officials of the Administration of Justice do not want to work under the orders of a government that supports disobedience to justice, or perhaps it is because they want to be independent officials, or perhaps it is because they do not want to be the sole officials of Spain to whom they have been taken off the extra pay for three years in a row and have not been returned. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Look, justice is a fundamental public service. Please ensure that you are independent for everyone and do not want to do...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.61.0	Mr. Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.62.0	...that the Administration..., exclusive to you. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.63.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.64.0	I thank you very much for your consideration. Obviously, I can't share the statements he makes, more than anything because they're fake and he makes me say things I haven't said. Catalonia everyone is welcome and what, at least, the government is worried about and the Department of Justice is worried that the administration of justice works. Don't worry about other considerations that you make, that I think are basically to look for an easy headline and a headline out of reality. If you want to help us, and your group wants to help us because the Justice Administration works well, I can give you some idea, which probably you in the immediate future have the opportunity to help us. First of all, the legal fees that the State charges to Catalonia: some taxes that are charged for a service that the State does not lend and that return zero_euro to Catalonia. The State has provided EUR 180_million for this concept and we have seen zero. This would be a good measure to help provide even more medium-sized staff and systems in Catalonia. Similarly, there are new ways to create Catalonia that cannot be created because the government is working. The government can approve a hydrological plan in operation, but it cannot approve the creation of us jutjats, for example. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.65.0	Ask the government about teaching. [[Ask the Government about teaching]] [[310-00042/11]] The question is posed by Mrs Sonia Sierra, from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.66.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Counselor, Mrs. Pilar Castilejo has already given us the data that you made public in press wheel and the surprising imbalance between the closing of public and private lines, which surprise us, and also surprise us. And there's another time that we've been moved, and that's what they've said so far, but they've also said that up to three hundred lines of P3 that is tanky and, another time with an inequality between public and private, there could be 260 lines in public centres and 40 in concerted centres. Who are the criteria for making this decision, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.67.0	There's the word the Teaching Counselor, Mrs. Meritxell Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.68.0	Thank you, Madam President. My honourable Member, I will try to explain myself better, because I see that it has not been very clear. I didn't say we'd lock up three hundred groups, I said if we applied the birth reduction directly to the number of groups, we'd bring this situation. In no case will that be the case, among other things because there will be centers with fewer times, because Catalonia has a different situation and has many centers that are under way. In fact, the middle of Catalonia is already under twenty-five. I insist on the criteria: when you have an exceptional situation, because this has never passed to the history of Catalonia, what you have to do is make exceptional decisions. And what do we do? To look at the situation of each municipality and decide that there can be no more than one line of schools, one line of schools, because we have three line of schools, two line of schools, one line of schools... If this situation is all there is to it, the most possible is that there is much diversity in one line of schools and, moreover, some stigma and some problem, these will surely end up closing. Before we do that, the decision we make is to close a line in three-line schools. Therefore, these schools, moreover, will come with a smaller line, so they will also be smaller, and we guarantee the continuity of educational projects, some of which have long existed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.69.0	I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.70.0	Thank you very much. So, it turns out that the information given here doesn't just coincide with everything you just said, because according to this file, the presentation of the data presented by Mrs. Rigau, here in Catalonia, there are more than 7_percent of students who are in classes where they are over-ratio, and a 0.1 percent with twenty-night or more students per class. How is it possible that there are tank lines of P3 while there are students over legal routes, according to their own data? It doesn't – it doesn't – serve you to advertise, saying that what you do is reduce the rates of the centers that have the most problems, because the only one that does this is to stigmatize even more of these centers. All children in Catalonia have right to a school with legal reasons. Here, at the initial pre-registration offer of the second cycle of compulsory education for children, you say that when there is no agreement between the department and the public administration – before you refer – it must become – it is what I understand with this arrow – to negotiation until a solution is found. The reality is that at least there are municipalities, most of them located at Baix Llobregat, did not agree. How is it possible that I am taking his decision with this obvious lack of agreement with such important municipalities in the demographics? Here we have the map of the tanks; we can see that the majority are in the metropolitan area of Barcelona. Do you know what's going on, ma'am? I have said this on other occasions: education is not a priority for his government. We are the second autonomous community that has reported more in education, in concrete terms, a 26,6_per_cent, while the Spanish medium...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.71.0	Member of the Commission. - You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.72.0	...is 14,53_per_cent. [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.73.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.74.0	We'll tell you a hundred times: this government's priority is teaching, but it'll follow us by saying it's not ours. That is to say, in these years, with the economic situation that we have in this country, we have to ask – and you know, she is a teacher – for a huge effort at teaching to ask for more hours and less. Therefore, we have not reduced your service, we have called for an effort, which we have always thanked, to the faculty of this country. When you say..., I said "middle gear, I suppose you will know that the average gear is, precisely, a medium gear. These years, too, I should have known, that there was a royal decree in Madrid that obliged all administrations to increase the rate by 20_per_cent, and that Catalonia has never applied it to all centres, applied it to those centres that called for it, applied it to concerted centres that asked for it and applied it to certain centres where it was necessary to respond to needs for schooling. But you have to hear that Catalonia is very different and we have, the vast majority of centers are... – you said a 7_per_cent – there are 3,000 centers with a rate of 25. When you say: "Listen, decrease rates in the centres of maximum complexity, stigmatization. Listen, don't stigmatize, it's positive discrimination. Don't we have to devote more resources to those centers that need it the most? Don't we have to give more teachers to those centers that need me the most? Don't we have to try to have a lower rate in those most complex centers that need it the most? This is why it is intended to give support to these centres. If you want to say stigma, I don't think that's what it is. But for us it will always be our priority to help these centres. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.75.0	Ask the Government about the deficit of public administrations. [[Ask the Government about the deficit of public administrations]] [[310-00043/11]] The question is posed by Mr Roger Torrent, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.76.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Vice-President, I would say to the full that the worst form of injustice is simulated justice. I would add that if, moreover, she was accompanied by a certain degree of arbitrariness, then there is another component of immorality. Minister Montoro, last week, claimed that the fault of exceeding the deficit threshold for Europe was from the autonomous communities and from the joint ventures. Let's go over the data, look at the objective facts. The European Commission's share of the deficit is 4.2_percent of GDP. And the State the centrifuge, as we say, to the communities and the municipality disproportionately, because, for example, the communities spend around 30_percent of the public expenditure and, in change, they can only make 16_percent of the deficit. In our case, in the case of Catalonia, the deficit marked for this 2016, the deficit ground marked, is 0.3_per_cent, while 2015 was 0.7_per_cent; therefore, practically half. This happens at home when our economy presents very positive macroeconomic data, in the sense of leading exports, direct foreign investment, visiting tourists, general economic growth, etc. The State, therefore, what it does with this system is to put it through, to put at risk the government's help to boost the economy, and, even harder, to put at risk the government's ability to move this economic growth, these macroeconomic benefits to the families, the main challenge of this Parliament and this government. Therefore, an arbitrary system, an unjust system which, in platonic terms, somehow attempts to conceal itself with a pretext of objectives. We know, however, that the problem is not this, that the problem is the lack of entrances, insufficient entrances. Today, the Catalan economy generates enough resources so that it does not have to fail to meet any deficit limits. The problem is that we do not have our own resources, and we do not have them by political decisions of the State. Therefore, our recourse, our path is to be able to dispose of all our resources; this is our objective. While, however, Vice President, as you will face this 2016, do you take into account this limit of deficit imposed on the State?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.77.0	Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.78.0	Good morning, President. Good morning, deputies. Deputy Torrent, let's start my intervention by breaking a plea in favor of Minister Montoro or any other person who has to assume that responsibility. To remember that the Spanish State has spent, in the last eight years, a social security and security expenditure, from about 135,000_million to 185,000_million. Fifty thousand million more than they are, sense dubte, very difficult to assume. Made this recognition, which is valid for Mr Montoro or for anyone who has to assume this responsibility in the future, another evidence: despite this difficulty, the State Public Administration assumes 57_percent of the public expenditure – 57_percent – and has always reserved a deficit relief for over 80_percent. In such a way that the year you see will reserve 100_per_cent– with 57_per_cent of the expenditure, it will reserve 100_per_cent of the deficit relief – while, as you explained, the autonomous communities represent one_third of the public expenditure and the year you see a 0_per_cent of the deficit relief. Therefore, it is obvious that there is an imbalance here, there is a centrifuge of this remedy of deficiency, which contradicts the recommendations that come from Europe; it is obvious. Another consideration of respect: the Catalan economy grew, fortunately, the year passed a 3,4_per_cent; the last year, the last quarter, was a 3,9; the deficit, in Catalonia, grew a 1,95. It is therefore clear that our economy is growing much more than our debt, while, in the case of the State, debt is growing much faster than economic growth. Therefore, the Spanish State, unfortunately for everyone, especially for him, is much more indebted to grow up a little. The debt capacity of the Spanish State depends, to a great extent, on the Catalan economic growth because the Spanish State already gives a 100_per_cent of its GDP. And, therefore, all that you have to hold more of a debt, you will have to hold on to a growth in GDP that only, or to a large extent, is produced in Catalonia. Therefore, the Spanish State and the Spanish governments, that of Mr Montoro and Mr Rajoy or any other, should have had it present and should have had it in the future, even though, now, this will depend on us..., should have had it present that the growth of the Catalan economy is good for everyone. In an independent Catalonia, the growth of the Catalan economy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.79.0	Vice-President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.80.0	He'll be good for everyone, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.81.0	...has run out of time. [[Ask the Government about judicial and political persecution of mayors and governors to support Catalonia's independence]] [[310-00044/11]] Ask the Government about the judicial and political persecution of mayors and governors to support Catalonia's independence. The question is posed by Mrs Neus Lloveras, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.82.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. Honourable Councillor Borràs, after approving in this Parliament on 9 November Resolution 1/11, of the political process in Catalonia... until today 286 assemblies from all over the country have passed motions for recollection to this resolution. These resolutions, these motions are political positions, they are absolutely legitimate manifestations, without any legal effect. As a result of these political demonstrations, various courts of the National Court have begun to initiate proceedings against five assemblies, specifically for a alleged crime of rebellion and sedition. The majority of cases have been filed, except for those of the Deltebre and Vic joints, to which the number 2 court of the National Court..., Mr. Ismael Moreno Chamarro has opened a general case. With this, 286 meetings are being investigated at these times, the Catalan Association of Municipalities, the AMI, the National Assembly of Catalonia..., to the point where the intervention of directors in the plenary is being heard, as is the case of Mr. Joan Coma, the director of Vic, and he is posing in doubt... He is asking to declare for statements absolutely of opinion girls in the plenary. The Joint Parliamentary Group believes that we are ahead of a judicial persecution of everything that can be linked to the Catalan independence movement and that fundamental principles of democracy are being violated: the separation of powers, freedom of expression, the right to free association. For all this, we would like to know, counsel, what the Government of the Generality will do to protect the assemblies of Catalonia, its governors, its mayors before the persecution they suffer for the fact of expressing absolutely legal and legitimate political positions in the city halls. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.83.0	Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.84.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Lloveras, in the first place, tell her that since the government we regret the persecution of the assemblies of Catalonia, and with these their mayors and governors, simply for their political actions. The focus of the action is currently on the support motions, as you said, of the statements of 9 November, but previously it was on the flags that needed or ceased to weigh on the balconies of the Catalan joints, or on the support that some joints make to the popular mobilizations of the 11th of September. And so the mayors were persecuted at those times, Puigdemont or Santi Vila. The persecution, however, did not remain only in mayors and governors; therefore, as we all know, the criminalization..., in President Mas, in Vice President Joana Ortega, in Councillor Irene Rigau, and Councillor Homs, for the participatory process of November 9, which, in the end and the end, was possible to give a democratic expression to the citizens of Catalonia. Therefore, listen to me, in a clear way I want to convey tranquillity to the mayors and governors of these 286 municipalities that have given support to the resolution adopted on 9 November in Parliament. As you said, it is nothing more than, in fact, a freedom of expression to vote on these motions. And, therefore, in no case does it represent a sedition, rebellion, prevarication, disobedience, usurpation of attributions, or improper use of public funds, the facts of which are accused. Therefore, these judicial actions, as you said, respond to the explicit will of the Government of the State to suppress democratic expressions, and this is where we find ourselves supporting, absolutely, the Catalan consistors. Before this fact, we can say it higher but not clearer, listen: leave the Catalan assemblies alone, and repeat: leave the Catalan assemblies alone. And, by the way, Mrs. Lloveras, the joints will feel, therefore, all the escalph and the gathering on the part of the government. And, first of all, to say it..., or, finally, to say it: congratulations, because it seems to me that this sale you, therefore, will be president of the AMI and, more than having to answer the accusations in order not to dispose of the flag of the State on the balcony of your home, you will have to give support, like the ACM, to the 333 municipalities that the AMI aims to help, before the accusations they hold on the table. Thank you, come on and go. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.85.0	Ask the Government about the refugee crisis. [[Ask the Government about the refugee crisis]] [[310-00045/11]] The question is posed by Ms. Adriana Delgado of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.86.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Regrettably, the world has suffered and is suffering from numerous bellicose conflicts, and as a result, thousands and thousands of people are fleeing violence, hunger and misery and seeking international protection, security and new opportunities. The umpteenth refugee crisis, sharpened in 2015, is the largest migratory and humanitarian crisis since World War II. The response of the Member States of the European Union has been completely inadequate, short-term and shameful. Barriers have been raised, literally; lives have been cut off from legal and secure steps, caused by the fact that more human lives have been lost and that refugees are victims of the mafias; collective deportations are being made, and only a few days ago the agreement with Turkey has entered into force, a shameful agreement ratified by the heads of state and government of the twenty-eight member states, among them the Spanish, an agreement that casts doubt on the right to asylum and certain international and European violations in favour of human rights and on the international protection of persons persecuted or victims of war. In view of the inoperability, rigidity and lack of commitment of the State, to Catalonia Government, joint ventures, entities and civil society work together to collate, but they do not make enough information or resources on the part of the Spanish Government. And they have already asked publicly and on various occasions that Catalonia manages the gathering and integration of refugees, with the firm and united commitment to assist these people. In Catalonia we have the legal duty and moral obligation of refugees; even more so when this land has always been solid and crowded, and has also suffered the flight of people persecuted during the war, many of them family members of some of us. In the face of this situation, Constable Dolors Bassa, what is the position of the Government of the Generality to respond to the refugee crisis and what concrete measures will bring to the end to embrace and integrate them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.87.0	Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Afers Socials, Work and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.88.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. In fact, it goes so far as to say that all you've explained is exactly what we're thinking of as governing. And as the government we have a duty: the duty to get old to make the law complete. In order to be able to complete the law we have to veto the Declaration of Human Rights and, above all, the Geneva Declaration, for conviction. And that means precisely to welcome with dignity all those people who have to arrive in our country, who arrive in our country, without any discrimination. And that's what we're going to throw in front of. You said it very well: we also remember our opinions, that they went to Algerians or, those of the Republic, to Mexico, during the time of Lazarus Cárdenas. There are forty open conflicts, and that's hard. We've done everything. We've demanded the State to open safe lives. It has been done by this Council itself, by our department, together with other communities in the Spanish State; it has been done by the Presidency at European level; it has been done by the Foreign Ministers. So we're working to break this barrier. If we were independent, I can assure you that we would do like Canada, that we would take planes and go look for them. But at this point in time, if we were to do so, it would be trafficking in people, and, therefore, we cannot do so. What are we working on? In three concrete lines. Help create new places. Up until three months ago there were 28 places for refugees; at these times in 250, we are working for 500, for 1,800 in an emergency, and in 4,500 for two years. But more and more we're working because when they arrive we can't just put them together, but they can fit in. We work with the managing bodies. We're studying legal ways against the state. Because our premise is what Kofi Annan said: "The differences, the displaced, the refugees, are the ones that enrich our lives. And so we have it with the government, and so we will. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.89.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political and social situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the priorities in the Government's investments in the city of Tarragona]] [[317-00026/11]] The question is posed by Mr Sergi Saladié, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.90.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. President, say, say, say, say that the year you see, in Tarragona and other municipalities of Catalonia, of the Principality, are to celebrate some Mediterranean games, the year 2017. And I say that of "they say, they say, they say, because it is not clear, today, that they are done. Basically, for three questions. The first is that at the municipal level there is no consent to Tarragona. The second is that the Spanish State, which was initially committed to contributing 15_million euros, at the end of the day will only contribute 3.4. And finally there is a lot of fish that directly affects you, or we directly affect us, that is that the Generality has to contribute 12_million euros – so that it has been bought – to build, basically, a sports club, but in fifteen days, and in less than fifteen days of difference, two contracting companies have given up construction, allegating economic inviability, and that certainly, therefore, has done..., well, it has done, in fact, that the government is suspending the procedure to start it again, and that will certainly entail some presuppostarial increments. The question is whether in this context..., how is it justified that the main reversal that the Government of Catalonia will make to the municipality of Tarragona the own vague time destined for the construction of a sports club, when there are other priorities and social emergencies in the area in educational matter – without going further, the School Ponent, at the same time as one wants to build the sports club, is in barracks–, or in health matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.91.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.92.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, I don't think I can clean things up. Basic services are guaranteed. It is perfectly compatible to assume an investment like you define around the Mediterranean Games and the maintenance of all and each of the obligations that the Generality has towards the lands of Tarragona, in this case, or in the country's conjunction. And I want it to be clear from the outset that this government does not regard the Mediterranean Games as alien, but rather feels them as propitious, and so it has expressed it to the mayor of Tarragona, because it wants it to be clear that the government will accompany it in a project that is strategic for that part of the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.93.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.94.0	Thank you, President. If we, from the social point of view, already seem to be obscenity, that in the context of migration of public resources priority is given to the construction of a sports club over other social issues, from the national point of view, as justified by an independent government that in the process towards independence is valid and is financed a competition in which the Catalan selections cannot participate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.95.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.96.0	Thank you very much. In the first place, at the Mediterranean Games, you do not confound «consenso ab« unanimitate; because outside consensus there would never be. There is no unanimity, but there is a broad consensus – a broad consensus. And, therefore, from this point of view, the Mediterranean Games enjoy the acceptance of the institutions, on the part of the important people, of everything that makes them viable and justifies them. Secondly, of the Spanish State's financial commitments, I can't answer, as I can imagine. But I can respond to the political and financial commitments that the Government of the Generality has to make possible the Mediterranean Games, and why they are a success. And, in this sense, the inconvenience of the withdrawal of the companies that were awarded the construction of the sports club, the resolution, and we are resolved. Because what interests us, above all, is that the end result of the Mediterranean Games is good for Tarragona, and if it's good for Tarragona it's good for Catalonia. And if it's good for Tarragona and Catalonia, it means that it's going to have a multiplier effect, like it usually has these kinds of events, that they share benefits for everyone and that they help us make a cohesive, sustainable country, a country where everyone who wants to bring forward a project has opportunities to do so, not for reasons of territory or ideological reasons. And in this sense, it seems to us that the approach made from Tarragona because the Mediterranean Games are a project of which the country is able to feel in its midst proud and, therefore, contributing to the normality of this country deserves our support, our support, and it is one of the stones that we have to put in because this country has infrastructure and international projection that the deserve to be able to compete on equal terms with the rest of the states in all international sports competitions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.97.0	He asked the president about the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on public health waiting lists and government priorities in the health field]] [[317-00029/11]] The question is posed by Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.98.0	Thank you, President. Mr President, we have a very serious problem in Catalonia, even though we don't think about it or believe it any more than the independence process; and I'm talking about what is affecting sanitation and, concretely, the waiting lists. At this time, there are more than 926,000 Catalans in Catalonia who are on the waiting list for public health. The question we would like to ask you from the People's Party of Catalonia is: is this a priority for you? What measures do they intend to take? Are they prepared to prioritise what are economic resources for public health?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.99.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.100.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Albiol, finally, after I don't know how many control sessions, you stop talking about the process and talking about the questions Catalonia-Spain, and ask a question about a topic that is sanitation and say whether it is the priority of the government to talk about sanitation, I insist, three months after starting the legislature. So, yes, it's a priority of this government. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.101.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.102.0	Thank you, Mr. President. It would be good if, apart from saying yes, I showed it to you, as we have already done, by presenting a bill on the subject and where from the People's Party we hope to have the support of your government. The reality, however, Mr President, is that far from these weeks we have seen your government's advisors come out and present their proposals and priorities. We saw how Mr. Junqueras presented us that his objective is to open 142 new offices in the Catalan heritage; how the fictional councillor, Mr. Romeva, the fictional councillor of Exteriors, Mr. Romeva, explained to us that he wanted to open forty-four new embassies, and when we listened to the health councillor, the health councillor, who said that he presented us with such action plans; but apart from action plans we would not know any concrete measure. On the other hand, at these times, there are 656,000 Catalans here in Catalonia who are hoping to be specialized, of which 200,000 are more than six months waiting, Mr President– more than six months waiting –, 117,000 Catalans are waiting for diagnostic tests and 153,000 Catalans are waiting to be intervened. On the other hand, what we have seen from the action of your government's councillor, Mr Puigdemont, is that they have gone through with private sanitation, you agree that they were working well; there is no better assumption at these times to be able to provide majors and more resources for public sanitation, and we have seen how the hours of primary care centres have been reduced. Mr President, here are the words, here are the facts and oblivions of the separatist process, and there are no real problems, which are sanitation, teaching and education for the vast majority of Catalans. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.103.0	There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.104.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Albiol, from the start, don't get into trouble with not renewing them; they're different things – they're different things. And, in addition, you give a few figures that in their conjunction are shocking, because you know, let's say, present them in a way that generates a certain reading, but that when you enter the small letter and enter the detail – that's what we all have to do in this room – things also have a matte. On surgical waiting lists, you, who let go of your first part of the intervention the 926,000 people..., surgical in are 153; which in are many, but in are 153,000. So, things like that. The councillor has already had occasion to talk about it in his appearances; you will see it at the end of May, when we enter the draft assumptions that this government is developing. They see that there are clear commitments that respond to the government's agenda and the shoc plan – which we call the shoc plan – that one of the objectives it has – of the first – is, among other things, to reduce waiting lists. And you will see as at the end of this legislature, that you know that it is a short legislature, the lists of hope will have been reduced, in time of hope, by the hundred and forty days of middle that they have now, at the ninety days, that it is precisely the reduction to half. Does it look like it's going the right way, that, or not? To us, yes, and therefore, all that goes on the right path to improve the conditions of the Catalans, this government will do for one. Now, said that, I hope that these words that you announce about the importance of prioritizing vaginal sanitation with gestures, gestures in the approval of a premise that, I insist, you will be able to measure and be able to participate, if necessary, the priority of this Government will be reflected in the measures that you want to see with the policy of sanitation. And the second question, that this already says more than you – for the moment – that not of us, is that the Spanish government does once and for all honor its word to pay to what it has signed to pay. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.105.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the position of the Government in relation to the manifesto For a genuine process of linguistic normalization in Catalonia independent of the Koiné Group]] [[317-00028/11]] The question is posed by Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.106.0	Thank you very much, President. Very honorable, a few days ago a manifesto, Koiné, was presented in society, denouncing bilingualism. A manifesto that, for us, those who come from the Catalanist tradition of the left, is very disturbing to us in the terms in which it was formulated, because we think that it poses in question the fundamental elements of coexistence in this country that have gained strength and given cohesion in the last decades. We are concerned, above all, that some meanings of the personalities of the majority of Parliament that support it have signed this manifesto. So, we'd like to..., and we've heard lately, at last, a few days ago, Mr. Turull, that he said that he had to take into account and respect this manifesto. We want to ask you, Mr. President, if you share this opinion and what the result is, or what that respect means in your Government's action and speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.107.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.108.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, this government has to answer for its policies and its commitments, and if it ever signs a manifesto, which it has not done and will not do in the future, because it is not government work to sign manifestos, then explain why it signs and why it has done so. But, of manifestos, in the Catalan society they get a lot, of all the tendencies, and surely this same one that you say will have another, of countermanifest, probably, and that is not why the government has to be positioning itself every time in relation to what a part of the society thinks about a question. But, in any case, if the concern is what the Government's attitude is, what the Government's position is, it is defined in the government's agenda, which goes from the electoral agenda, which is explicit about this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.109.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.110.0	Thank you very much, President. So, I don't think we're going to get away with this and this generality, because we're ahead of a particularly disturbing phenomenon. Particularly disturbing, precisely, and to which the public powers should respond, because it is the first time, or for the first time, in a meaningful way, that within the sovereignist camp appears a racist position – and weighs my words: racist, eh? – cultural speechist, who is somehow the inverted reflex of the many pressures that the Catalan language is coming upon precisely on the part of those who want to dig it up as the vehicle language and of social cohesion on the part of the Spanish right. An inverted reflex. A manifesto, and people who are allowed to talk about immigration as elements – as it is said? , with elements... –, [[Funnel veils]] Intentional settlers of Francoism, when these people have been decisive in the conquest of democratic freedoms in this country, and these people have emerged from the linguistic cohesion and social cohesion of this country, because it is a historical demand and a struggle of the forces that come from the left, precisely from defending unique school networks, from defending linguistic immersion, from defending the Catalan language as a vehicle language, and, at the same time, from recognizing and defending the cultural plurality of Catalonia, precisely, everything that goes to grab this unity, to grab this social cohesion, is a dangerous political element. Therefore, I think that your government should be more responsible, more curious and more likely to be in front of an event as disturbing as this, especially when there are people behind it, people who are signified, who are supporting this manifesto and who are learning this type of statement. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.111.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.112.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, you don't make the manifest say things that you don't say, you don't make him say things that you don't say in relation to what is a thesis that you qualify, I think, in a little responsible way, of racists and..., because I don't think reading the manifest leads you to these conclusions. But, anyway, if you're talking about political commitments, the government's political commitments are defined in the program, and they're defined in the government program that I introduced, which is clear. I want to pass them a copy. There's nothing to see with what you're saying. Because this government doesn't – and more so, they're very responsible – have the repugnant heritage of the previous governments of all colors, the effort they've made to make català a language of cohesion, a vehicle of social ascent, a vehicle, in other words, of normalization of all the diversity that is in this country, and it will continue, as it could not otherwise have been. That said, do you admit or not that there may be a socio-linguistic debate? Among sociolinguists, about the theses there is about bilingualism, about active languages, passive languages... And this is an academic debate in which this Parliament does not have to enter – it does not have to enter – because the position of this Parliament on the value of languages and on the officiality of languages and on language rights is perfectly defined. And it will be perfectly defined because in the vast political majority of this country, there is the conviction and the firm commitment to guarantee all speakers of this country their linguistic rights. And on the day-to-day of this government you will not find a single element that does not only not put at risk this, but does not value the effort that is made so many people that generously and voluntarily contribute to the català, which is poor language, to stay. And this is an effort that they make from the 70's, the end of the 70's, as you very well said, many people, who guessed that the català would actually be a language of freedom, democracy, and that, therefore, the calibre help even though it probably speaks to their families in the castle. This government is on this line. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.113.0	He asked the president about the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about respect for the legality and the judgments of the Constitutional Court in relation to the motion on the exceptional historical moment]] [[317-00027/11]] The question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.114.0	Thank you, Madam President. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.115.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.116.0	Thank you, Madam President. I know it's not a custom, but I'd like to add and congratulate Lluís Rabell on the question he just asked. Mr President, in your investiture debate you committed yourself to keeping the Catalan institutions in the framework of the law. He did so on various occasions and especially when he answered any of my interventions. As you know, the Legal Servants of the Chamber have already said that the motion submitted to the CUP should not be admitted to court because – and I quote literally –"of the obligation that all public powers have to complete the sentences of the Constitutional Court. This is on the record of the Parliamentary Bureau meeting held on 29 March. In fact, the Bureau admitted to handling the motion in a very peculiar way: in a conditioned way, conditioned to a modification of its contents. And yesterday we knew the agreement that the CUP and Juntes have arrived for the Yes, that I must say that in our opinion it continues to present the same defects. I would like to remind you, Mr President, of the report of the Chamber of Deputies, of the Parliament of Catalonia, signed on 15 December last, which literally says: "The effects of the judgment of the Constitutional Court and its obligation to compliment it do affect the processing and adoption of resolutions or parliamentary acts of natural nature similar to the resolution declared unconstitutional and null or contained much coincident or seeming, especially those that insist on the political project expressed in Resolution 1/XI regardless of the constitutional reform. Mr. President, the CUP motion, even incorporating it, if that's the case, the Juntes for the Yes statements, it's natural analogous, content very coincident or very seeming, and insists on concreteizing the political project of Resolution 1/XI. He says, to give just one example – and I quote literally –: "The Parliament reiterates the objectives contained in the 1/XI statement of 9-N. Mr President, do you honestly believe that if Parliament approves this motion, can it continue to say that we are in compliance with the law?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.117.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.118.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, in question to the President of the Generality, you only had the first two seconds. He said: "You told the investiture panel that you would do everything possible to ensure that the actions of this government were taken with the law in mind, and then you started talking about the Bureau of Parliament and the decisions of this chamber. And I don't know how to say it, but the separation of powers, like, at least, a little standard of prudence and modesty, obliges me to tell you that these questions that you are willing to do or these doubts that you have about the legality of a Parliamentary Bureau processing, look, don't formulate it to the President of the Generality. The form to the Bureau, which has a direct line and will be able to answer it. I, for what it does to the government's performance that I preside, can give you assurance of the compliment of what I compromised myself when I was invested in the president of this chamber. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.119.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.120.0	Yes, thank you, President. Look, Mr. President, I've finished the question, asking your opinion of whether you believe that approving this young man is completing the law. That you don't have an opinion on this? Well, it's possible, I won't put it down. Now, about the separation of powers, man, let's keep an eye on her. For example, to me, I have to tell you that the President of Parliament is part of the direction of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes. It's possible, but I don't like it. And what I want to ask is that we make every effort to comply with the law and to make it complete. Precisely, because institutions are...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.121.0	Mr. Congressman, you've run out of time. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.122.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. But it's that, Mr. Iceta, you repeated yourself, in error. You're asking me about how the Junts Parliamentary Group is organised for the Yes, and you're asking me – you're asking me – what does a lady who's a Member, who's also a Speaker of the Parliament, to the Junts Parliamentary Group for the Yes. I don't know what's strange about this. I may see you, for a while now, in the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group or in the parliamentary group I don't know on, if you don't know five government pacts, but for the moment the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group is formed by the Junts per el Si deputies and deputies. I don't know what's strange about this. Now, if you are very interested in knowing who the opinion is, I understand that personally, because, as you can imagine, the Executive Council of the Generality does not agree on parliamentary processing, but if you have a lot of interest in knowing my personal opinion on the motion, I am convinced that what is basic in the workings of any democratic law is respect and, ultimately, the man for political debates. With full freedom. And they can't put borders here, because parliaments must be free at the hour of discussing everything and with everyone and governments must apply to what parliaments approve and, if they don't, they must answer in front of the chamber. But if a parliament in Catalonia needs to be painted in case they can or cannot talk about something, think 'but it's very bad to start – very bad – any political change or political regeneration project that can be made, for this country or for the country you see. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.123.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the content of the transactional emena to the Moció about the exceptional historical moment]] [[317-00025/11]] Ask the question Mrs. Inés Arrimadas, from Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.124.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, a joint motion has entered this plenary, between Junts pel Si and the CUP, which not only does not comply with Parliament's Rules of Procedure – that is obvious – but is a real insult to democracy. A motion that makes politicians have the ability to jump over the laws they want. A motion that calls for a very serious thing, and is that the Mossos d'Esquadra, which are under the guardianship of the Department of Interior of the Government of the Generalitat, do not have to comply with the decisions of the courts. We already know who you have chosen as government partners, an anti-system group, a group in which disobedience is your modus operandi, a group that has always been responsible for questioning and unprotecting the Mossos d'Esquadra. We already know what the Junts pel Group is going to do Yes, and we already know what the President of the Catalan Parliament has done today, which, with today's action, sincerely, has contributed to further degradation of the credibility of the figure and of this Parliament, which has made so much effort difficult for us to recover the Catalans. But I'm not going to ask you about any of them. [[Widow's remorse.]] I will ask you, as Member of the Parliament of Catalonia, as President of all Catalans, of the 7_million_and_average of Catalans: do you also agree with all this? Do you also agree that politicians can do whatever they want, that you can put between the sword and the wall the Mossos d'Esquadra? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.125.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.126.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, man, it does me the effect that it is not the best way to contribute to the work and the good name of this Parliament, in a few seconds to talk about insults, about..., about a whole series of questions that I seem to be able to get rid of. Because the people of the street admit that we can disagree deeply, and we have to do so with many things; but the words of thick traces believe that they do not contribute, precisely, to the part of their claim in that they said that they had cost us so much – so much, so much – this institution. This institution strengthens with the attitudes of every day. That said, I'm responsible for what I'm voting for, and you don't prejudge what I'm voting for from here to one o'clock or tomorrow, when this young man is present. But what I guarantee him is that Together for the Yes, his sense of vote, is a sense of vote, obviously, debated in the group's conjunction, and that he is perfectly respectful of his government program. And my actions as a Member, if you care so much, go exactly in this line, but I add one more: I still have an obligation to respond to the government program that I presented to this chamber, which this chamber approved and before which I will be accountable to the citizen when this mandate ends.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.127.0	I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.128.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, a President of the Generalitat who promises people that he will make independence cannot shake his legs to answer these questions. [[Rialles.]] If you're promising something much harder than answering what I'm asking you. Do not play with the good faith of the Catalans, not even those who voted for you. I'll tell you one more time. And you told me the other day: it seems that we think much more about the independenceists than you do about the Catalans as a whole. And that's the way it is. And I will remind you one thing, when you vote on this motion – and if it is approved, if it is voted and approved – remember one thing: Junts for Yes and the CUP represent less Catalans than we represent Citizens, Socialist Party, Catalonia Yes it is Pot and PP. Therefore, do not speak in the people in the name of the people... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.129.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.130.0	And if you're going to vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.131.0	Please – please – respect all opinions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.132.0	...and if you are going to vote with Junts for Yes and the CUP, you will have to explain it to your electorate. But when the four opposition groups vote against a resolution by Junts pel Yes and the UPC there are more Catalans who are voting in favour of democracy, in favour of respecting this Parliament, in favour of respecting the institutions of Catalonia. Do not go further because the day will come, Mr Puigdemont, who will have to look into the eyes of the Catalans and recognize that it has failed them. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.133.0	Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.134.0	To try to make an acclamation... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.135.0	Later. Mr Coscubala, after the President's speech. Okay? [[Pause.]] There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.136.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Arrimadas – with the permission of Mr. Coscubiela –, to see, on respect for what this Parliament approves or what it represents that it approves this Parliament, you will soon have the opportunity to demonstrate to Madrid when this Parliament comes up with things approved by a very large majority, and we will see what is the attitude of its parliamentary group, or of its Government, at the time that this is addressed to the Courts, and we will see what is the respect that you have for the majority who will have voted those formations that in this Parliament can, for example, send a proposal to the Spanish Government that is calling a reference; that is, exactly, what the party to which you belong to – and that all the Lord Coscubiela may already be represented by you, but that he may not be represented by you. Listen, you've got practice trying to make people say things they don't say. Where have you seen that we ask the Squad Mosses not to complete the law? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] To see..., oh, sorry, you are asking the Government – I was asking the Government – and the Government, you can ask the Councillor d'Interior, you can ask any of the Councillors, the Vice President, me, about the degree of compliment of the laws of the decisions we make. Can you tell me, to me, a measure that we have entrusted to the Mossos d'Esquadra – of the Government, not of the Parliament – that goes in the line of the young man you are teaching at this time? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, but here it says « Parliament of Catalonia, do not say « Generality of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.137.0	Mr. Coscubala, I'll give you the word, I've been told, when the control session is over. Okay? [[Pause.]] The President of the Generalitat is missing a question. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the increase of foreign investment, data on growth and economic growth]] [[317-00030/11]] Ask the President about the latest political developments. The question is posed by Mr. Jordi Turull, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.138.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. With Mr Iceta's permission, I would ask the question, I would ask, of the parliamentary group; I say this because it also seems to tell us how we should organize ourselves. And, with the permission of Mrs. Arrimadas, I will ask the President of the Generalitat, not Mrs. Marta Rovira, because it seems that there is a Junts control session for the Yes and not a control session for the Government of Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] We..., our question goes in the following line: we have always said that our defense and our commitment to the independence of Catalonia answer to two great objectives. The first is that the people, all the people, can live better and have more opportunities, and that we can leave a better country to future generations. That doesn't mean that until we reach this goal, we don't work hard, so, because it's also a vagina produced in this while. And the truth is, on the basis of work, the results begin to come, and we want to put them in value. And we want to put them in value, above all, in contrast, therefore, to some absolutely defeatist speeches, and, above all, in contrast to some speeches as demagogic as false about a supposed negative effects of the process that saw Catalonia respect its economic growth. These days we've known the data of the twilight. None mentioned it, but it's some data that's the best in a March of '96. We've been through the 500 000 barrier, which is still a lot, and that means we can't stop; but we're coming from a lot more cruising, and, more importantly, now we have a new turn that is, as the Department of Treball has said, to break the wall of precariousness. On the other hand, this week we have known a series of data that do not only invite hope, but also confidence in our possibilities, and it is that Catalonia in 2015_was the fourth – coming from the seven – the fourth European region with the most foreign investment located also on an absolutely strategic issue as it is in the industrial camp, right? A very basic industrial economy linked to entrepreneurial tradition, with talent, creativity, etcetera, can make this economic recovery much possible. There is a whole series of data that, for us, do not only invite hope, but also trust, therefore, in our possibilities. And that's why we, president, want to ask you two questions. One, if it has negative effects, then the process that Catalonia sees respects its economic growth and the other, what is its government's understanding of economic growth and that this supposes work places and work places with decent wages. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.139.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.140.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Turull, indeed, has all the data we have, not ourselves, the Government of the State, which knows them; and I've known for a long time that I don't feel like any of the Spanish Government's pilars say that the process is like a bromur for the economy. Just the opposite, huh? So they tell us that the macroeconomic situation is in the right direction. In terms of reducing the number of actuates, the number we have known just a few days ago confirms this. In terms of creation, say, of wealth growth; in terms of export firms; in terms of foreign investment to Catalonia; in terms of positioning of, say, the Catalonia label on the market of future investment destinations of international companies, in this context, Catalonia is not that well, it is that much better than there are, for example, territories that – let it be known – are not immersed in any process of independence, and therefore we cannot attribute the fact that they are to the half of the results that has Catalonia is that they have started some process of disconnection, because there is nothing to see. Or maybe yes – or maybe yes. Perhaps the people think that this country, which considers itself as if it could take on a project that is quite complex, but that it is essential to push forward and consolidate this social, economic and cultural model that we have, is perhaps the project that is worth it. And it's worth trusting a country that trusts in itself; a country that has self-esteem; a country that does what it takes to ensure jobs, to guarantee foreign investments, to go looking for the land of the world – even though the Spanish government intends to prevent us – investments that are capable of generating wealth and jobs. In a country like this it's worth investing in, because there are people who are willing to leave their hair because the people of their country get caught. And what they tell us is that. And we are not to rejoice, with the contention that you have laid, very reasonablely, and that Constellera Bassa has also situated and that the Government, in its conjunct, has present. We have fringes of precariousness that we haven't solved. We have problems, some of which threaten to be structural, which we must be especially alert; but we cannot solve them if we do not have, as a minimum, two factors: u, this confidence that we are able to generate in the economic investments that come to Catalonia, and, two, that it is so much or more important than this, the essential tools because the Administration does the policies that generate the multiplier effects of these investments. And those are the only ones we'll have if we're an independent country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.141.0	After the control session, Mr. Coscubiela can make his acclamation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.142.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, I think this is the third time in a very short time that I ask you and other groups in the chamber to do the favor of not taking advantage of the political representation of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. The votes of the citizens who voted for us are not even our own, they are theirs. But Catalonia's political representation Yes, it's Pot represented eleven Members of Parliament. Certainly, you are not the only one who does it, we are used to it: on September 26, some considered us from the block of "no"; on the night of the 27th, as if we were missing a deputy who was said to be Marc Vidal, we were already from the block of "yes". No, we're from Catalonia. Yes, it's Pot, and that's all. How it seems that you don't understand it... – pardon me, Mr. President, I'll use that groller language of fishers, huh? , of the street, maybe it's too sudden for you – ‘fish with fish and real with real. Do you understand? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.143.0	Mr. Iceta, why did you ask me for the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, Mr. Iceta, that's why we're done with the control session... That's why I gave the word to Mr. Coscubiela once the control session was over. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Mr. Iceta, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.144.0	For an allusion of Mr. Turull. [[Rialles.]] I gave him the opportunity to do well... [[Voice remorse and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.145.0	See, it seems to me that it is: now Mr. Turull asks for the word, Mrs. Arrimadas... That will be the count of not ending, eh? [[Widow's remorse.]] So... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But it's you... but it's that there's been a direct invitation to a parliamentary group... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Iceta, thirty-seconds – thirty-seconds – we'll count them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.146.0	Menys... I just wanted to know the president's opinion on one thing and I didn't get it. And, therefore, it cannot be said that I have asked neither Junts for the Yes, nor... [[For technical reasons, some words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] It's all right. He apologizes for asking for the word. Because, President, I wanted to ask for the word because it preserves the turn of the control session between all of us and we admit that, from time to time, the mention of a third does not imply giving the turn of the word. [[Inés Arrimadas García asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.147.0	Mrs. Rimadas?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.148.0	Me too, to make a point of order. I share Mr Iceta's words, in a control session we can all all allude to it, and I think that if we start to open turns of speech, we can distort what the control session is. Having said that, since you have taken the decision to give the floor to Mr Coscubiela, I believe that I am in my right to ask for the floor, apart from this point of order...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.149.0	Yeah, but maybe he's already spent thirty seconds... [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.150.0	No, it's just a point of order... [[Give me the applause.]] No, no... - No, no. This is a point of order. Madam President, I ask you to be faithful to the Rules of Procedure. It's one thing to ask for the word for one thing...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.151.0	Please say what you have to say! [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.152.0	On this point of order, I would like to ask you, please, to speak for..., in reply, for allusions to Mr Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.153.0	So, tell me what you have to say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.154.0	I'm 30 seconds old?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.155.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.156.0	Mr. Coscubiela, I ask you to listen to me more in the control sessions. I have not said what you will vote for or how you will use your votes. I have made a mathematical statement: Junts pel Yes and the CUP have fewer votes than Citizens, Socialist Party, Catalonia Yes it is Pot and PP. If you have any kind of problem with this mathematical statement or this election result, it's yours, but I haven't said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.157.0	Madame Arrimadas, you've already said what to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.158.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.159.0	Mr. Turull, why ask me the word? [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.160.0	Because they've all talked.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.161.0	Yeah, you're right, 'cause everybody's been talking.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.162.0	Exactly. [[Widow's remorse.]] No... I'm just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.163.0	But Mr. Millo is missing, which I also see is being asked. [[Rialles.]] Well, thanks to the CUP, don't ask. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Mr. Turull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.164.0	No, just tell him that my intervention to Mr. Iceta was because he had entered into who was to be part of the organisation of the parliamentary group, or not. And, therefore, we consider that this is a topic that does not touch on a control session, if not for those who do not have work, the cat combs. Mrs. Arrimadas, Together for the Yes represents much more in percentage of votes than, for example, you, in Madrid, with the Socialist Party, sum, and they dared to make an investment debate. Imagine the salt we represent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.165.0	Mr. Millo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.166.0	Yes, thank you, President. I hope you don't agree before what we're seeing today...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.167.0	No, I'll tell him he won't... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.168.0	But in any case, and as this exception has occurred, and we have also been praised for the intervention of Mrs. Arrimadas, to reiterate, obviously, that Mrs. Arrimadas does not represent the People's Party, but she has said one thing that is certain that we are totally in agreement with, and that Together for the Yes and the CUP do not represent most of the Catalan voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.169.0	Let's get to the next point of the order of the day. [[Communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions]] The second point is the communication to the Ple of the composition of the months of the commissions. In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees shall be communicated to the plenary. As the new composition of the Economic and Historical Committee is included in the file and has been distributed to all Members, I urge them to complete their reading. Completing the rule 49.2, we now move to the next point of the order of the day. [[Proposal for a law repealing Law 6/2014, of 10 June, amending Law 2/1989, of 16 February, on tourist recreation centres, and establishing standards in matters of taxation, trade and gambling (debate of totality)]] [[202-00006/11]] The third item on the agenda is the debate on a totality on the proposal for a law repealing Law 6/2014, June 10, amending Law 2/1989, February 16, on tourist recreation centres, and establishing standards in matters of taxation, trade and gambling. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules, he presented the initiative, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, Mrs Hortènsia Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.170.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies, well, today we are going back to debate on Law 6/2014 – I will not say the title, because it is very long and already said by the President of Parliament – because we all understand each other, the law that was known as the "law of Barcelona World", which modified what was previously known as the "law of the Port Adventure", that is to say, the one that laid down the Recreation and Tourism Centre of Vila-seca and Salou. I would like everyone to understand why we are calling for a derogation or, if not, to initiate the petition to radically modify this law, and there are many Members and Members who are new– and I will make a brief summary– but I would like to remind only one thing to all of them, and it is that this law, which was approved by the last legislature, in 2014, was approved with only 65 votes in favour, nor the half of the chamber approved it: with the votes of CiU and the PSC, with the abstention of the PP and Citizens, and with the votes against the Republican Left, the EU Initiative and the UPC, as well as the last part of the last four articles of conflict, more problematically, which are about our own votes against the Republican Left, the EU Initiative and the UPC; and the last part of the last four articles of conflict, more problematically, which are on behalf of the PP and Citizens, and with the votes against us, the Socialist Group, the Socialist Initiative and the UPC; and the last part of the last four articles of trouble, which are on behalf of us, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the last, the So, I mean, let's put it in this context; that's why we're going to do this law proposal again. Also, add that it was a controversial law from your beginning, both in forms as in the background of this. He had..., that, moreover, this law did not have a clear project; it is to say, the project that Veremonte presented was a lot of thing to blow up pigeons, as we say, a project without a plan of negotiations, without cost-benefit analysis, without quantifying at short and long terms the consequences that this could have for the tourist model on the Costa Daurada. And polemic, too, in the forms, because he went through an emergency, he went with opacity. And when we were trying to debate the question of the law, we were surprised by an agreement between the PSC and Convergence – the famous pact of the Pretori – in which Mr Navarro and the President But, therefore, again staged the "socio-virgency and agreed to it dynamically all the work that we were doing in the committee to try to lay down limits and domesticate the most salvific aspects of the law, which are what I referred to before and which, moreover, voted against. All this with the drama – and I think it's worth remembering – that Veremonte, who is the one who enforces the approval of this law, is free of the option of purchase in 2014 and it's Incasòl who, by putting a deal with the Box, assumes this option of purchase, but no longer for all the lands, for the five hundred_hectares, but for the hundred_50– the famous banana– where the CTIs, the integrated tourist centers, which are the hotels, more casinos, more the commercial part are to go. If we didn't have enough, by June 2015, Veremonte, who had won one of the competition's awards, is definitely off the hook. So we're talking that we don't have a Barcelona World project yet, but we do have an ad hoc law left for this project; we do have an urban director plan, an initial approval from an urban director plan, which, besides, is July 31, 2015, is to say, three days before the government convened elections and held office, and we do have..., we have this, and we don't have an agreement between the parties that support the government on the future of this project. That's to say, we think these are motivating... well, that, besides, it won't freak anyone out that I say, and I don't want to make blood and do that; it's that April 2nd, Mr. Junqueras makes statements to the ACN, and counsel Rull responds to it. And we all know that there are advisors – that today they are advisors – that they said during the campaign. Therefore, there are two evidences: we do not have the initial project, we do not have an agreement with the Government. And, therefore, we say: "Ostres, therefore, we have an opportunity. We are going to make the need virtue, which the Castilians say, and we have the opportunity to open up this question of law and seriously debate all those aspects that we have not been able to debate in their time forced by the crisis; forced for the famous photo that of the Azores, of September, when the Eurovegas was not installed in Madrid, and, well, forced for those circumstances that are not the current ones. Therefore, we have an opportunity, but it seems that neither Together for Yes, nor the PP, nor the PSC, want to let us exercise this opportunity, when we are presented with the three papers to the totality. But, look, I can hear you, can't I? A little, I'm talking about the totality of Junts for the Yes; well, I know they're debating, they're gaining time. I also understand the PSC and the PP. I understand the three of them. The PSC, very tactical, because you too, therefore, are trapped in a pact in the Tarragona Junction, with a government with the PP and with the Union, and well. And that of the PP, so, because, in the background, the model I assume already pleases them. But I say, listen: now we have the opportunity to deconstruct the law and make a whole series of reflections on the economic and tourist model that supposes this law, on the theme of the game, on the urban theme, above all. And I say... and we make a parenthesis, because it's a country issue. So, I'm sorry, and here I do make a parentheses: if we consult, if we do not want to do it if we do the debate well, the consultation has to do the country, because the law was debated in this Parliament; it's not a Tarragona issue, it didn't end up deciding Tarragona, it decided this Parliament, and therefore it's a country issue. Miri, about the tourist model, when I talk about deconstructing the law..., and I brought – I brought – a book, which is not of an economist, nor Bolxevic, nor Marxist, it is of an economist who is his deputy in Madrid, what do you say that... ( you see from the background) – Miquel Puig – says that A good country is not a low-cost country, right? – well, or he went to the list, sorry, I was wrong, counselor, he went to the list – well, say A good country is not a low-cost country: a proposal against indecency, and that makes an interesting force analysis on the bet for a low-wage, low-training tourism model, or on the bet only of, in times of crisis, betting only for tourism projects and abandoning other developments, for example, on the industrial issue. Therefore, here we find that the tourist sector, today, in our home, is a tourist sector of low wages, with low qualified people, little training, which, moreover, has led to an early school drop-out. And, in this, the data sing; you look at the data of abandonment of the touristic places of the coast, or included in the Camp of Tarragona; just like cities of the interior, like Valls or Montblanc, of the institutes, and the data of abandonment of the coast. Therefore, we find that this is not a model of quality tourism, but not because..., the intention can be to say: "We will create a quality tourism with five-star hotels. It's the same, miri, five-star hotels. Do you know the famous Kellys? The Kellys are a movement, which is starring for the Lali Corralero, a cleaning house in Lloret de Mar, that in five-star hotels in Barcelona is a manifesto that the cleanness of the rooms is subcontracted and is paid up to four_euros the hour. This, at the superhotels of Barcelona, of five stars. Therefore, if we continue with low wages and do not continue with a decent minimum wage, this tourist model is not sustainable, this tourist model is not decent. And, besides, if we want Tarragona to have the tourist model developed, maybe this model with casinos is not the best way to make Tarragona the motor region of Europe. The same time we realize that, in Tarragona, we have to do this, but we have a brutal crisis in the industrial sector – that I look at the counselor why we haven't been talking these days, huh? : Ercros, Covestro, etcetera. Therefore, we believe that if you are betting on tourism, we must bet on a tourism of decent wages, with structures that accompany, in terms of creativity, research, to put in value the respite, etcetera. For what it does to the urban question, according to the theme: the master plan. Well, first of all, I want to take advantage of something that has been said in this Parliament a lot of times, and I want to clarify it above all to Mr Batet and Mr Terrades. Every time it's said that it was the tripartite that made 2,477 habitats possible, it's not true. Because it looks like the tripartite is all to blame, until it kills Kennedy. Look, the tripartite did not do this, Mr Terrades, and I remind you: the 2,477 dwellings, that was already foreseen in the Law of 89. What the tripartite, his company, the ex-counsellor Nadal, did, was, from the partial plan of sector 2, decide how and where these habitats should go, because, if I had not done so, it would have been prevaricated. Therefore, the tripartite did not fix the buildability or modify it. That's what I'm saying because, like those things that happen every time, see if it's clear to all of us. And, for what I'm doing to the PDU, what I wanted to say to you is that it's also an opportunity, now, to rethink the recreation center in all its globality. I mean, we don't just take the banana, the hundred and fifty-hectares; we look at everything that's left. Because, for example, the 2,477 dwellings, "the Box could already have made them," says the Box because it is the owner, huh? Not because he's mad at them, he's the owner of the land– he could have done it already, but he didn't do it. Home, if he didn't do it, it's because he shouldn't be interested in this model. Therefore, perhaps we can take advantage of it to rearrange and think if really, with the structure we have on the Costa Daurada, these 2,477 habitats are keeping us warm, and we can make changes. So... And it presents a lot of problems, this board of directors, which we presented in the annexes; problems of the type of urbanization costs: more than 200_million. These urbanization costs, when one of the investment groups has withdrawn, and we only have three claims, what's going to happen? Who's going to take over? Because, of course, if we're gonna make a roundabout, if we're gonna make a connection, it's gonna be... the three of us are gonna have to take over the part of the fourth investor who pulled out. Or all the themes of mobility, which present difficult problems and which, moreover, do not depend solely on the Government of the Generality and this Parliament, also depend on the Government of the State. We have the links to the AP-7, the links to the A-7, which have to be done to fix all the mobility. We have energy issues. We lack an energy station, which is the one that gives electricity, a substation, that of Bellissens, that will be installed. We have water questions. They say to us, "No, no, there's plenty of water from CAT. Yes, we know, there's plenty of water from CAT, we've already done the study, there's plenty of water, but it doesn't seem to be very much that the water that was brought from the mini-transmission, it's different from the water from the water of Ebro..., and more so when we're on the whole subject of the complete, to boost the industry and why we have a problem of supply to Tarragona – the industry, with the effort that it has done, so blessed, to reduce the consumptions using the water of the tertiary of the depurator –, now it turns out that for a macro project we're going back to grab again, at least 1.25 cubic hectometres, and we can't turn the water of the mini-transmission. We have a problem of chemical risk and civil protection, which is not solved and which fortunately never happens, but the risk scenes have them. And what the experts in civil protection and the Pla de protección civil de Catalunya tell us is that when you put more vulnerable elements in an area, it makes it much harder to handle a chemical accident. So that's why you're asking us questions about this board of directors. We have the theme of the game– we have the theme of the game –, that the theme of the game, here– and I don't think that I go with the « morale of the sisters that were coming..., they from the United States, eh? No, I don't go with morality, it's an economic, efficient issue. Today on the theme of the game there are two great poles: Macau and Las Vegas, and three regions: Asian, European and American. What these studies are saying is that, every time, people when they're out of the way aren't out of the way to play, people like to play around the house, if they're out of the way, they're out of the way for other things. And, besides, they tell us, with the whole issue of the internet game, slots and so on, well, it doesn't increase that theme. Therefore, we have not valued this subject sufficiently; if we really have... Say: "No, Chinese tourists will come to play. No, no, in the end it's the town from here that plays, with the consequences that this has. And, plus, sixty thousand square meters for casinos, we think it's totally disproportionate and unnecessary. And then there's another question, the tax issue – because I see that I'm running out of time. Clearly, the tax issue. The taxation medium at European casinos is around 28 to 30 per cent, and here, come, to 10 per cent, and we didn't put the captivator in the Bathrobe... well, we didn't put it there because we can't anymore. Therefore, this is an opportunity to reverse it. And to finish – because I see I'm a little short. Why do I ask them to withdraw the puzzle to the totality? Because I understand that this being able to open the apple of debating the law again and doing the director board again is a challenge, it's an opportunity that we have in the territory. Because we should be able to discuss this, we should be able to discuss the tourism, territorial and social model that we will implement, with the participation of all the agents of the territory. Because if this is done, it will ultimately influence the collective life of all Tarragonans and Tarragonas, and because, moreover, it depends on how territorially articulated this project will have implications not yet, but also for the future of the area. It will have implications: it can help integrate or disintegrate the entire Costa Daurada brand, and the whole urban system, and the whole metropolis of Tarragona, and therefore it will also define the territory in its own twenty years. I believe, deputies and deputies, counselors, counsel, that the people we live in Camp Tarragona deserve this opportunity that we didn't have before. So thank you very much. And that's why I'd ask you to withdraw the papers altogether. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.171.0	Next, for the defense of the totality presented by the Socialist Group, has the word Mr. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.172.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, advisors, deputies, deputies, I must give you the reason, Mrs Hortênsia Grau: the government of the left, the tripartite, did not kill President Kennedy. Now, you're gonna do something, aren't you? : approved the secondary approach, and did, among other things, environmental assessment reports, which seemed to me that he signed a consultant who was of Initiative for Catalonia...? It was to, uh, make it clear, huh? – it was to be made clear. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And a president who's said Montilla, actually. I'm saying that because, as you go into the..., or understand your logic, you've always been against this project, we've defended it, and we've done some things in between that I'll explain to you, that you're also arguing what our position is, or why we've presented this issue of rebuking your proposal. In this country too often it happens that when you want to put up with something you order a study or follow opening the debate and follow persisting in these questions. I also think – and this has been a subject that has already been discussed in some other Ple, I think they have come from a young man who presented the People's Party in this legislature – that, in addition to his proposals, I think there is also a central issue, which we would like to know, which is the opinion of the Government: what will the Government of Catalonia do about this question? Why, for the time being, the government of Catalonia has a lot of stuff going on in the country, including this one, huh? Sometimes one has the feeling that the policy of government action is already fluctuated from the beginning, because there are some things that are stuck. We'll talk about this project today – don't worry, Mr. Baiget, that one day we'll also talk about some issues that affect your advice. Democratic Convergence of Catalonia and Republican Left of Catalonia, the two parties that form the coalition of government, the majority group of this chamber, with this project have to be clarified, eh? And it has to be done sooner than later, I don't know that the investments, the investors that have aspired to this project, so, in the end, he is tired of this situation and decides not to invest in the Recreation and Tourism Centre of Vila-seca and Salou. I mean, I don't know if this is the government's intention or the intention of the two parties forming the government coalition. Socialists believe that we have demonstrated since the first moment that we have been aware of the importance of the expansion that it has for the Tarragona communities, by the country's conjunction, the expansion of the Recreation and Tourism Centre of Vila-seca and Salou. It is not only because the rate of stay at Camp de Tarragona or the Tarragona districts is higher than at the conjunction of Catalonia. Before, President Puigdemont recalled, in a question put to him by the president of the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group, that they have improved the tax or data of the next quarter. Listen, we already recognize them, and it's so true that the businesses we're talking about are still holding the country's most important indexes. We are aware of the importance of this project, our parliamentary group in the previous legislature, and we do not share the initial project that was presented, we have worked with investors, but above all with the assemblies, with the assemblies affected by this project, with the economic and social forces, and with the Government of the Generality, so that it may be possible for this project to be assumed..., and with the past of a maximalist approach, which will be presented to us, and which you will remember that we – and we have done so publicly – have been divisive... – and we have done so later in the working meetings that we held with the previous Government of the Generality of Catalonia, of which you are continuing. It allowed us to start a path to repeat a maximalist project that is concrete in an urban planning board that has limited the initial pretensions of that project, as to the square meters of pavement that were being proposed for the hotel complex, for the business complex, for the convention complex, and also for the themes related to casinos. In fact, at these times the space reserved for the casino, depending on the guidelines that fix the urban master plan, is located or located, more or less approximately, around a maximum of 15_percent of the junction of the subway. As you recall, initially these were not the pretensions of the first investors to land on this project. And this has been a work from the previous Government of the Generality and also from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and local leaders of Vila-seca and Salou, huh? What did we do with this whole project, too? – which was initially not foreseen and which you know is incorporated in the work documents –: that a 1_percent of the investment that at the end there is the deployment of the Recreation and Tourism Centre must be destined for investment in the territory, a social fund for the workers and programs in favor of disability. They also know that the tourist fee..., because it has been talked about, of this topic, but initially the tourist fee has already agreed that it would be on the highest tram of the resort hotels that allows the current regulations. If the government now makes a reflection that wants to increase this tax respects this question, well, when there is the Law of Presumptives, and above all the Law of Accompanying Presumptives, the Law of Fiscal and Financial Measures, we are open to debate it, huh? But it was clear that, from a good start, this tourist tax was already set at the highest levels than the current regulations, the regulations of our country allow us. We can reassign studies, we can re-open the debate, Mrs. Grau. Now, this has been a project, from our point of view, and we consider it to be so, debated over time, that it has been discussed almost in the assembly of social segments of the country; that there have been drawings of appearances to give an opinion on this project in the Parliament of Catalonia; that there has been debate in local and national communication media; that they have made this project, of all this participatory process, an example of weighting respect to the positions of each individual, in order to be able to value and judge, as far as possible, the import of a project such as this, for which it certainly does to its magnitude. And because of this magnitude, it was logical that you were under scrutiny that we thought you were under scrutiny. Finally, and for the sake of the various electoral disputes that exist in this country, and as this is a central issue, there has also been a central theme of the political debate, not only have there been these drawings of appearances in the Parliament, this stance on behalf of everyone in the territory, the opinion of economic and social agents and other entities, but also that, as a result of this failed election that we have in this country, so, every time, it has also been under the electoral debate and the scrutiny of voters. We now find ourselves with a new situation: for one side we have the initial approval of the Pla Urban Director of the Recreation and Tourism Centre of Vila-seca and Salou, and it is over. It's over because we have the... not just the feeling, huh? , the certainty that there is a difference, I don't know how deep, but there is a difference respect this project for what it does to the two political parties that form or conform to the central headquarters of the coalition. And I no longer want to enter the people who are independent and who are also part of this coalition, which surely everyone has their opinion. We were able to see it, too, during the election campaign. I apologize to you, Mrs. Grau, because you already see how I know your position and you know my position, which I care about is not so much your position, huh? When he saw that we presented him with a piece of paper to the whole world, so I could already imagine what it was. I think my parliamentary group, but... the country, huh? , what he wants to know is not so much the position of the Catalonian Group Yes, it is Pot or the position of the Socialist Party respects this issue, but what we want to know, at least ourselves, and what has been clarified is the position of the Government, is the position of the group, of the majority group, which supports this Government. I mean, in this case, what we're talking about, the papers can't take it all. In this country, sometimes, we're used to making big papers that can handle everything. In this case, the papers don't start to put up with everything anymore. So that sometimes we also practice very highly in Catalonia, whose day it passes, year-long commitment, huh? Therefore, it begins to arrive the day when someone has to fix their position – the government, which has more responsibility – in order to know whether or not the approval of this urban director plan will finally be produced, is to say, when it will be produced; what will be the parameters that will be fixed; how we will advance the competition because those operators who have said they want to invest concretely, and therefore can start making decisions respecting this issue. And if it doesn't move on this path, because the discrepancies are profound, therefore, between the coalition of government, and with its preferred partner in this legislature, therefore, that it is unexplained; that it is unexplained in this chamber, that it is explained to the country. And if this is an reversal that ultimately did not happen, then someone also assumes their responsibilities. Therefore, Mr. Hortênsia Grau, you know what the position is – the perfect cognition of this debate – of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia: we will not support the law, we will keep the speech to the totality, and what we would like is for the government to move forward as soon as possible in its position to facilitate the processing of this project and, precisely, therefore, the realization of this reversal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.173.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes, Mr Albert Batet's illustrious deputy has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.174.0	Very good morning to all of you. Very Honourable President, Honourable Government Councillors, Mrs. Grau – benevolent and friend Mrs. Grau – well, we will find ourselves here again to talk about the CRT of Vila-seca and Salou. One and three days ago we also spoke in this Chamber, the fruit of a Popular Party Movement, in which he voted against the Movement, with 81 votes against and 49 votes in favour; a Movement that at that time was of the Popular Party, defending the Barcelona World Project. And we're back here to position ourselves in this case in the totally opposite sense of respect for what was presented in that case one and three days ago – so we're back to manifest ourselves –... in which you, and I think it's been very clear and very pale, ask for the repeal of the law that made it possible in your day than in Camp de Tarragona and that on the Costa Daurada we have the project of Port Aventura. They ask for the repeal of the law that in its day made possible the arrival of Port Adventure and that it makes possible that at these moments there are investments as important as the Ferrari Land; a law that marks a space, a right that closes a touristic project in that area. And I say this because in that..., today, as you will understand, I will not speak as putting this law; today it does not touch me to speak as Albert Batet who defended, in this sense, the position of Convergence and Union at that time of the law; it touches me to speak as Junts for the Yes. And, therefore, if I want to hear what I personally think about his position, we would repeat the debate of approval of the law that we held in the previous legislature, and, therefore, in the full session I refer to myself and do not need to repeat the debate, because we already know each other, Mrs Grau, for a long time, and what is his position and what is our position. In any case, today we'll talk, like Junts for the Yes, about the project you're proposing. And, look, to defend the viability of this project, I'll explain to you a personal question, which I don't know if you know, but we'll still share the bondage of what this law meant in your moment and what it means in this environment. I, of course, am from Valls – you know that, don't you, Mrs Grau? "I am from Valls, I am Mayor of Valls, but on the part of the sea.... my mother is from Canonja.. my mother is from Canonja... my opinions are from Canonja.... I know, too; this I know too..... and I have grown up in Canonja and I have grown up in the heads of the week of Canonja. And I knew as little as, to go to the platter, from the Canonja to the platter of the Canonja..., certainly, municipalities that achieved their independence without the need to make a reference, but with a majority of the Ple of the Junction of the Canonja – I say this in case they want to take it with consideration. To get to the Canyon, which we used to ride with a bicycle, to get there, you had to go through a mountain – through a mountain – of pipes and shale factories. And I remember going there with the cau, because I was from the Scout Bisbe Borrás Group, and we went there, and to get to the platter, that before we got there, there was the pant, and we had to go... a job. And, besides, therefore, with some space..., that one of the members of Junts' candidacy for the Yes, singing from a group that is said to be Els Pets, has a song that I think describes very well the feeling of what that territory was – of Constantí, of the Canonja, of Vila-seca, of the Bonavista, of the Campclar -, twenty or twenty-five years ago. There is a song that is said "Under the smoke bar; I recommend it, the same member who came to the candidacy of the Tarragona de Junts demarcation for the Yes, Mr.Reig; he sings it himself, and says: "When you pass the highway/ parallel to the sea/ if it is night you will see a king and clear cell, and you will find it near the ferum/ the town below, under the smoke bar. And that was that territory about twenty or twenty-five years ago. And this law at the time was able to encourage a change of model in this territorial area and a well-balanced balance, which it has experienced for twenty or twenty-five years, very key and strategic, at Camp de Tarragona and the Costa Daurada, between chemistry and tourism. Therefore, we are within the scope and scope of this term. In my intervention, there will be no difference in respect of what Congressman Torrent did in the position of Junts for the Yes, in the motion of the Congressman of the People's Party. In any case, I would like to make things clear, and that we do not go into doubt, and mark a clear position, I will read you exactly what page 95 of Junts' electoral program says for the Yes, where you will find the following compromises. Why do you make that clear, Mrs. Grau, huh? – We won't need to talk about it anymore – because I made it clear who Junts' position is for the Yes around this project. On page 95 of the electoral program says: « Review and promote the project of integrated tourism complexes of the Camp de Tarragona in order to realize the stake of capturing the markets and of economic protection of the territory in the segment of family tourism and events and conventions in a _marc of compromises with the tourism of quality, responsible and sustainable. And that's what the government is doing. And this is the compromise that the Joint Parliamentary Group will work on. Where are we? So, well, we are at the essential, necessary, essential point to consolidate this project and this tourism model of the Costa Daurada, as we have done during this twenty-five years, with the successes achieved, tangible...... therefore, we need consensus, consensus and unity;..... and this is – explained by the same President Puigdemont, as he explained a few days ago – a project that has to be analysed very carefully because of its interest in the territory, and that the design of these tourist complexes is in the area where the same President and the rest of the Government are most dedicated; it is not a project that we can unravel to the leugera. And at the same time it is working to achieve the necessary consensus that is possible because this is the way it is and to be able to pull it forward, from a local point of view. This is how the secretary of the Hisenda Government, the secretary of Hisenda, at the meeting of the consortium of the CRT where he was engaged with the mayors of Vila-seca and Salou who would be participants in the dialogue and the consensus of the new version of the project. Therefore, political stability and consensus, two essential aspects, necessary, to consolidate and bring forward this project. What project do we want? We want to push forward with the best possible project, the best project to help the economy of Camp Tarragona and Catalonia. We want a project that is sustainable, responsible and linked to family tourism, in line with the current offer of Port Aventura World and Ferrari Land, which is developing at these times. Inversions call inversions. And, therefore, they're big projects because that's what's going on in this line. We want a quality tourism project, which helps to de-season the sector of the Costa Daurada. Miri, this week, we've met the data of Catalonia, and the demarcation of Tarragona we're always the ones that are a little more balls; but, surprisingly, this week – this week, surprisingly – from an interannual point of view, we've been further down in Catalonia has followed the demarcation of Tarragona. And why was that? Holy Week. And why did he go to Tarragona? Because the tourism sector shows that it is a strategic sector to reduce the weather. Therefore, the deseasonalization of tourism favours the decline of the weather. And we have a concrete proof this week, when at the demarcation of Tarragona, from an annual point of view, in this month of March, in accordance with the previous year, it has dropped more than in the middle of Catalonia. Just for the Holy Week, just for the tourism. Therefore, it is an important project, precisely, with this vision of deseasonalization. We don't want a casino project alone; we want a tourism project with a focus on quality business tourism and without an excessive role of the game. We understand that the attractions of the CRT in Vila-Deca and Salou are very powerful and can help develop these other projects. We want a project with a coherent, proportionate, realistic dimension, along with previous proposals such as that of Veremonte – and I speak very clearly to you, Mrs Grau –, along with earlier proposals such as that of Veremonte, which were indeed an impulse to facilitate the project; just as it was achieved Port Aventura, now Port Aventura World, at its moment the promoters were Anheuser-Busch. Therefore, then, it does not mean that the standard mark is made for a company, but that it is made to regulate a space, a territory, a sector, in a certain area, which is the law that we approved in this sense. We want a controlled and driven project from the public initiative. And that you should love; that you may have the option of buying to do and to be able to develop these projects, that you should see with a lot of good eyes. We'll see a project where the government decides who are the best operators, who are the best projects; who has to age for investments that are real, with names and surnames, and with consequences from the point of view of the job creation. We are clear about the model, we are clear about the project we want, we have the opportunity and we have the compromise to substantially improve it and to broaden the political and social consensus on this project; that, in this sense, I would ask you – and as Mr Torrent referred to the previous motion – that the Government should work with discretion, rigour and seriousness to bring these projects forward. A few days ago the business advisor said; Mr Baiget said that to defend this project of the CRT, it is an opportunity that the country cannot let lose. So I let it work. You know that the government is firmly committed to this commitment, to working on this project. And once again we would ask..., and you know that for this reason this group will vote against, it will, therefore, keep the speech to the totality, without matter, as we will do with all and each of the parliamentary actions that are present in the coming weeks around this project, either in favor or in opposition. But until we need the necessary work, while, therefore, we will maintain this position and this position. Therefore, consent, set-aside, important projects for the territory, and let's be hand in hand with everyone who wants to help us. Thank you very much, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.175.0	Next [[some applause]] , to defend the object to the totality, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.176.0	Thank you very much, President. Members, Members, today we attend the third stage of parliamentary debate on the CRT project, previously known as the NCB World, during this term. The first was, in effect, to end the announcement of the paralysis on the part of the Government, an announcement derived from the discrepancies not only between the Coalition Junts for the Yes, but also with the members of the CUP ; a subsequent inquiry by the Group of the People's Party, and finally, a subsequent motion, also by the People's Group, collected in that case also – which we appreciate – by the Socialists and Ciutadans Group, but which did not pull forward by voting against the rest of the groups. Today, in this third stage, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, not content with the paralysing of the process, takes advantage of the adventitiousness and asks us for the repeal of the law. What is happening in Catalonia because of such an aggressive process of liquidation of a project like this, that it has a political, social, trade union and business consensus that is almost unanimous in the Tarragona districts? – almost unanimous; consensus is already there. Retrieving an argument that I made use of in the previous question – which I already know they don't like, but it has to be said – how is it possible that the carpetovetonic ideas that are wanted to carry twenty years ago Port Adventure today are imposing? Because they're imposing. Because today will not vote the derogation, Together for the Yes will not vote in favour of the derogation, but the project continues paralyzed. We were very moved, Mr. Batet, by the evocation of his idyllic childhood canongine, but the fact is that the project is over, for all the excitement that he wants to pose. This can only be explained from the situation of political exceptionality that Catalonia sees. While some mislead the time in the process – they say – of disconnection with Spain – certainly, playing to make and store, which is what they are seeing later – some, CUP, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and some elements of the Republican Left, have actually taken advantage of the advent to start another disconnection: a disconnection with the economy of the broad-based market that has experienced later; a disconnection, this, for which they have no democratic mandate. Well, that means that, for the other, disconnection with Spain, you don't have a democratic mandate in the terms that you yourselves set up. That is to say, at that time it was you who said that... they now say that they are different from us, but it was you who decided that there were no nuances, that those who were Catalans would vote that yes, and the botiflers, that they would vote that no. Well, it looks like the botiflers were more than the ones you said were Catalans. But this is another debate. As a minimum – as a minimum – we could accept that the topic is more adjusted to this disconnection. Now, in order to disconnect from the broad-based market economy, there is no democratic mandate, and to do both now, still less. And here's the main problem we're facing in this legislature: this irresolvable – irresolvable – contradiction between two parallel disconnections destined for failure but that they could carry the market economy to Catalonia as it has been in the last few years and that they could lead us to an indefinite paralysis. And the first to pay for the broken dishes of this irresolute contradiction turns out that we're the Tarragonans, that we have plans, consents, and now we're asking for a derogation and we're paralyzed. Well, minority position in the view of the oci and tourism of the CUP groups, Catalonia Yes it is Pot and some elements of the Republican Left, so it is fulfilling its objective, despite being minority, which is the paralysis of the CRT. A minority, out of the Catalan political situation, imposes their model on the majority and imposes their model on the vast majority of consents to the Tarragona regions. And they go a little further, as I said at the beginning of the intervention: in asking for the derogation. This instrument of derogation, it is curious when there is no immediate alternative. It's destroying without building. It is a very curious view of the concept of political alternation, because obviously, if you have a new majority you have the right to legislate; but this initiates any mandate destroying what the former has done is of those who have a vision of non-alternative politics, but of revenge. And we say so, from the People's Party, from the credibility that gives us the fact of enthusiastically gathering the project, despite having been expelled from the negotiations of the previous law, for political reasons that had nothing to do with the BCN World – nothing to see –, that motivated the forbearance at that time; a necessary abstention to pull the project forward. But what we would never do with life is, because at that time we were being expelled, ask for its derogation now, if we consider the law to be the instrument used to bring forward a project of these characteristics. We are, therefore, ahead of paralysis; but we are also ahead of something that concerns us most, which is a process of delegitimization of the project, through lying and manipulation – of lying and manipulation. Because only from the point of view of manipulation is it possible to understand that Mr. Lluís Salvadó, Secretary of Hisenda of the Government of Catalonia, says that there is no consensus around the project – he said last week – when in Tarragona the consensus is absolute. I repeat: I can not build it, to Tarragona the consensus is absolute; not unanimous, as explained, but yes a consensus, we could say, of 90_per_cent, as at least. Delegitimization of the process with lies and manipulations are statements, some, I have to tell you..., I also appreciate it very much, Mrs. Grau, but I have to tell you that with lies and manipulation..., both of his exposure of motius and some of the statements he has served, full of disqualifications to project supporters. I quote textually: "indecent model," you said, "speculators, "opacs, "interested occults. That's enough, Mrs. Grau – that's enough. This battle will also be given, that of the dignity of those we think differently from you. And I'll ask him four questions, see if he can keep what he said. And I don't know if you'll have the opportunity to answer today, but in front of Tarragonan society I'll ask you these four questions. First: Are the major unions in Tarragona signing the project speculators? I'd like you to be clear. Two: is the UGT's Secretary General, Mr. Jordi Salvador, current Republican Left Member at the Congress of Deputies, a speculator to collect the project and have signed it? Three: are Tarragona's chambers of commerce, the Economic Studies Society, Tarragona's professional colleges, all, some – I quote textually – « violators of equality and opaque performance to collect the project? Did you keep that statement? And fourth – that's the best –: are the direct teams of the Diari de Tarragona, Diari Más and of all the Tarragonan communication media – of the Tarragonan communication media – some – I quote textually, have made use of this expression – "encouraging playpathies to gather the project? I'd like this, especially, to be clear. Because everyone who's against his opinion seems to be all this stuff. And I'd love to hang on for a while to this question of ludopathy, because you've served it here today, and you've served it even more tendentiously in the communication media of Tarragona. Miri... this is manipulation, the perversion of political communication contemplated from the worst possible way. Miri, turn any supporter of the project into instigators of ludopathy. They come from a progressive formation, first of all, this kind of inquisitorial moralism that they don't have with other ducts; but, well, that's their problem. But what is not so much a problem is to sweep without any kind of shame what is an oci space for a profile of foreigners with great economic resources, to sweep it without any kind of shame with obvious problems that must be fought, of playpathies, associated with very depressed barrels, of scurvy buttocks, of scurvy buttocks, etcetera, that have nothing to do with what is being talked about here. A minimum objective analysis leads us to think that this manipulation is absolutely intolerable – intolerable. Do you think that all the people, the vast majority of Tarragonan society, if we had the slightest doubt about this space in terms of ludopathy, would we pick it up? But what do you think we are, the rest who don't think like you? I'm asking you. I repeat, the mayor of Tarragona, Salou, Vila-seca, the unions, the employers, the chambers, are we incentives of ludopathy to collect the project? It's over, Mrs. Grau, it's over this mania of breaking society between good and bad. You have the right to express your opinion, but you cannot accuse of these things that do not think like you. In short, and I ended, the derogation – the derogation – would mean the end of the project. He won't vote today. But it will also mean the end of the project the attitude of the government, now, of ambiguity and of maring the loss. So let us ask them to react, to resolve their contradictions. The project is necessary and, as I said in the inquiry, is vital for the Costa Daurada, for Tarragona, for Catalonia... Conformaria, with Port Aventura and Ferrari Land, a trident of oci and cultural offerings unbeatable in Europe and practically in the world and, above all, it is a project that has generated an extraordinary illusion in Tarragona. Please don't drag her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.177.0	Then, in turn, has the word "Mrs. Hortênsia Grau".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.178.0	Thank you, President. Two questions – it's that I'm still in a state of shock for the intervention of Mr.Alejandro. First of all, Mr. Batet..., because I think there's been some confusion; it's just that I don't know if in this room we don't listen enough to each other. I, my group, our group, this proposal for you entered the December 2015; what's happening is that you've seen it now. And when we entered it, when we spoke of derogation, in no case, Mr. Batet, we want to repeal, we talk of repealing the law of the 89th of Port Adventure, on which you have made the idyllic theme of the song of Els Pets... In no case! We are talking about the current law, Law 6/2014. And, if you say so, Mr. Batet, everything you have explained to us – and I thank you very much for the tone and the trance and what you have explained to us – it is true, in the end there are aspects of this law that we will have to change. And today, if they listened to me well – if they listened to me well – the one who asked them..., I said to them: "I put "repeat" so as not to enter chapter by chapter. But I was talking to you about four or five aspects of this law that were problematic and that we now have the opportunity, among all of us, to modify, as well as to make the Pla urbanistic director. I didn't mean to blow it all up. But it's clear we're not listening enough. So this is what I wanted you to hear, that we now have the opportunity, now that we're doing the director plan..., of those things that were less consensual and that raised more controversy and that continue to feel controversial. Because the issue of taxation is controversial, the issue of the sixty-thousand_metre_quadres_of casinos is controversial. And all that, now, is that I won't even answer it, Mr. Alejandro, because it's because I didn't even talk about playthings today, nor did I charge against the unions or the mayors. I've talked about what the law did – that you didn't live it, but I might ask Mr. Luna, because he also suffered from it – and so I've talked about it. I didn't charge anyone. And, I mean, I don't know what the charges you made against me are. But then there's another question. You read me the Junts for the Yes program, didn't you? , to review, to push, to make the best possible project. So, precisely; we have the opportunity, among all, now that the PDU is being made, if we modify those aspects that were most problematic, to make the best possible project. And the best possible project, so, it doesn't go through to have sixty_thousand_metres_quadrats casinos, maybe it doesn't go through here. Surely... for me, for our group, of course, it doesn't go through here, does it? , goes through other questions. So, I... I like him very much, I really liked his intervention in this sense, which the government is working to modify... to make the global settlement. We'll be loving this question. Also deny this claim... – that Mr.Civit did so with his head –, this alleged consensus, which is not such, for as much as you agree to say, as to put the unions... See, one thing was the paper played by the UGT and the Jordi Salvador at a given time and another is the union. I imagine that Mr. Jaume Pros, of the Committees of Tarragona, will have drawn from the hairs to feel it to you, Mr. Alexander, because Commissions has never been..., has always been critical with the project and, above all, very critical when those promises of... – first they spoke of twenty_ thousand places of work, said_ thousand places of work–, were critical. So what I'm asking is that, more than accusations, we listen to each other a little bit more, because I think what I was asking here was very reasonable, it posed doubts, it posed reasonable doubts, that you, Mr. Alejandro, didn't even answer me, because I don't know if the PDU looked. I've looked at it, studied it, and I've submitted allegations, and there's a lot of reasonable doubts in that PDU, and some that depend on your state government, as I already say, like all the issues of mobility, like energy issues... so I'd like to see if you, what a defense this project is, to see what your party is doing in Madrid to make it easier for you to develop the project. And now I'm against it, to see what you're gonna do, Mr. Alexander, because if you do the same thing you did in Flix's case, huh? That they don't make it easy for us to get the gas so that we can install other companies before the Ercros lockdown, or as they do in other questions, let's go get them! So, before we start shooting wrongly and right, let's take a closer look at things. I have tried to be strict, I have tried – I think – not to offend anyone, and it is I who would like this debate. I know it won't come out, because Mr. Batet has made it very clear; they want to work, they want to continue working in silence and, therefore, I hope that in a short while, when you have finished this job, we will have the results of this work, which I hope will be a much less aggressive proposal and will have more consensus than all the forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.179.0	To fix his position has the word the Lord Antonio Espinosa, from Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.180.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the Barcelona World project comes to Parliament, it comes back to us to discuss itself and to discuss itself and I really, when it came back, thought: What is the reason? And of course, I cannot fail to hold the government accountable. A government..., the party's last governments, at a certain time of Convergence and now of Junts for Yes. And I'm going to explain myself: look, this law, this law proposal in its day, this law proposal that was made could have been supported with much more consensus and it was not meant to be done. There was no political will to broaden the consensus, to broaden the support, and that has made us a law, for certainly as we already at the time manifest, we are deficient, with many shortcomings, gaps that continue to drag and that have not improved. That happened with the government of Mr Mas, but it is that the current government, therefore, what we find is precisely that, a division and a paralysis, a division that they have perfectly staged, eh? Mr. Turull and Mr. Counsellor of Economics, Oriol Junqueras. We are therefore faced with a situation that the reason why we have to debate again is precisely because of that, the inabilities and incompetences that are at the origin of this law, of this proposal of law that brings us Catalonia Yes that is Pot. However – and this is where we didn't just see it – is that this legislative initiative seems to me to know, as you were thinking, that you didn't have a lot of travel, huh? I believe that – if you will allow me the Junts for Yes – it obeys what is now called a certain posture, don't you? Because, of course, it is one thing to bring us a proposal to modify certain parts of the law, certain specific aspects of the law, which we know were not right, which we know was widely or in an equally important way dissented, and another thing is to propose a derogation. And it is that, gentlemen of Junts pel Yes, lately you have settled in the repeal, I would say that you what you claim is a kind of constant overthrow and this I believe that, really, it does not make things easier for us, it does not make things easier for us because language and forms also involve. Now Mrs Hortènsia explained to us that what they wanted was a debate, to open a debate, but the debate is that we believe that, frankly, it is about opening the least and making more concrete. And, therefore, here we would have liked – and we would have supported – a concrete proposal, a proposal in which the modifications would have become evident, rather than, in a generic way, talking about repealing, talking about overthrowing. And it's that society – and you also have to understand it – actually, huh? , Catalan society, Spanish society, in reality what it wants is to build. It's really what you want, it's building, and you, using the word ‘repealing,' you're talking about destruction, you're talking about destroying. We must build on something or improve what already exists and aspects which, of what already exists, which are positive, must be maintained. That is why we, together with society, want to transform, modify, but not repeal and overthrow. Look, I think you have missed the opportunity, the opportunity to modify and improve the current law, because now you will no longer have support and you have missed an opportunity, simply. Sometimes forms also matter, not just the bottom. And it is that you transmit, you have to recognize it, you transmit a little the idea that you want to end the project, kill it, finish it, and a little bit this, that it moves, that it is transmitted, is what I think many of us would agree to modify it, we do not share. The Citizens project, the purpose of Citizens is precisely to improve that project, that of improving. And here we agree with the diagnosis that has been made, that there are very clearly improved aspects, as we said in the debate of approval, aspects related to fiscal, environmental, urban, child protection in relation to the game, even for our case, as regards credit, the credit game that is intended and that we believe that it would have to be much more limited, very limited and perhaps even prohibited. But, of course, one thing is to set out specific aspects and another is to come up with an idea of repealing a project rather than improving it. Therefore, we cannot be on that side, we are obliged – we are obliged – to vote in favour of the amendment as a whole. At the fiscal level, I would like to add that... because, as we are asked for in the position, I want to insist on what has been a clear and clear position of citizens all this time, and that is that taxation, as it has been established, entails privileges for investors and aggravations for the rest of the tourism sector and for thousands of self-employed people and businesses. That is so, that is because to reduce taxation to 10_per_cent and, moreover, without any compensation in terms of job creation, that is, it is not even minimally conditioned to create employment. For, man, if the fundamental aim is to create employment, we might well have, in any case, linked that exceptional tax reduction to that creation of secure employment. I mean, as long as it hadn't..., since it hasn't been linked, we understand that, truly, that discount is not acceptable. Because they already wanted, they wanted many entrepreneurs, many self-employed, to have the taxation that has been put on these investors, they wanted even many foreign investors or investors who wanted to come, that they should also be put on that taxation. Really, honestly I tell you, I think we share, I believe that many people, many people, many Members of this House, which is not fair, that it is not fair that we record productive activities much more than – in this case – an activity that clearly has speculative aspects. We are not, of course, in favour of how the urban issue has been dealt with either, because, although it is true that now, through the urban master plan, there is an intention to fix aspects that were not covered by the law, the truth is that this is already taken away from the focus of Parliament; I believe that this is where Parliament should have fixed those urban aspects which, today, I say to you, escape from control and, therefore, from Parliament's own legislation. What do I say, from an environmental point of view? From an environmental point of view, it is known, or rather, it is not known what the impact on the territory is going to be at the moment and the obligation to establish, to draw up an environmental assessment for a better..., simply, for a better and more appropriate decision-making was not established in its day. Well, well, I think we have once again highlighted aspects and shortcomings of the law. Nevertheless – however – and despite the shortcomings that we have manifested and that we think we are and should be in time to modify, Citizens are in favour of the Barcelona World project, because, logically, we think that well done, that if the investment materializes with sufficient guarantees, eh? It will mean investment, it will boost the economy, it will ultimately create jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, with good regulation, which at present I doubt very much that there is, in the service of the general interest and not in the service of the interests of some individuals, the activity of the game, together with other activities, precisely what would be a greater... – or would it enhance or favor – is a greater activity and tourist offer, eh? Business tourism, conference tourism, convention tourism and even family tourism have been mentioned here. And all that, all that, and for that last reason, is why we support the Barcelona World project. All this would result in more prosperity for the regions of Tarragona and for the whole of Catalonia. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.181.0	Next is the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.182.0	Good morning, thank you very much. Two years ago, this Parliament approved an ad hoc law, a law bearing names and surnames, which had a beneficiary, with a reduction in the tax and with an urban planning that was the detonator of the whole fold and of the debate that was generated around it. But let's get a little ahead of ourselves, aside from that. The theme of urban planning: we live in a country where urban deregulation has been and is a common practice of all governments along history. Not going too far: a partial plan was approved a few years ago to increase density according to the initial proposals. Therefore, in the background, we have systematically used urban deregulation as a planning tool, thinking that where there is a space, we can build it, without implying that territorial planning goes much further than the construction and systematic use of the territory. But, more than that, so as to attract investors and make a casino complex – or this is what at that time is said and claimed – the previous government, the Government of Convergence and Union reduced the deposit of the game from 55_per_cent, which is the usual percentage all over the world, to a 10-per_cent scandal. A fact that is widespread in all casinos. Therefore, this means that, from the approval of an ad hoc law with names and surnames, the rest of the casinos benefit from this reduction. More than one privilege that any company in the rest of the sectors must pay for the IRPF in the light of its activity and, in change, we find ourselves in this case, casinos that do not have to do it or that have a reduction; therefore, companies that have to pay twice as much, even so, respect the tax of the game. But, in addition, it was argued... it was argued two years ago and it's argued again now, here, and it's argued today, that it's old enough for work places. Obviously, we want to travel for jobs, for a decent and quality occupation, not for which the majority sector of this new complex systematically provides and drives. Because the hotel sector is characterized by jobs without professional qualifications, to eliminate categories, to generate job instability with the figure of fixed discontinuities; therefore, in the end, to promote poor working conditions. Moreover, it is a sector that has in it itself a characteristic of its own, which is a large sector of women who are twice pre-characterized. And here we hope that this chamber, in the case of the Commission of Igualtat, can listen to the Kellys, domestic workers who are self-organizing themselves to denounce the conditions in which the hotel sector, this sector with which we want to benefit the new project, treats them or, better said, maltracts. Therefore, for us it is absurd and unacceptable to base the defense of the reduction of the tax on the game on arguments that say that it will generate work places. Because we could find other sectors with which we could argue that we would generate jobs, but that we would never get to the consensus, either, that they are jobs that we can push. And someone will say that we are taking it to the extreme; but, yes, we are taking it to the extreme expressly because they are debates that currently exist in Catalonia and, in concrete terms, in the city of Barcelona. Prostitution, most likely, also generates work places, and, in change, here are people who are not willing to regulate it. Ludopathy, more than that, is a recognized addiction. And someone will say that we use it, but it's that ludopathy is not a problem, it's a disease, and, as such, we need to get old so that we don't increase, because the sick people have the necessary conditions. Therefore, the reduction in the tax of the game that poses on the table is the finding that, perhaps, we are pretending to advance towards an economic model that encourages harmful activities to health, to people and around them. And it's that, besides, someone was talking, Mr. Alejandro, about the market economy of broad consensus. And I would ask you: is it the broad consensus of denominations, staminas, precaritzades? This is the broad consensus of the market economy that we want to defend Home, I think that talking about the broad consensus of the market economy after the years we are living..., about how the market economy has brought unfortunate and devastating consequences to most of the popular classes of the Catalan countries, we should not have to defend it or talk about the market economy of broad consensus. Two years ago, the company Isabel Vallet, when here it was discussed and sought to approve – and it was approved – this law, she said: "The bet, again, for urbanism, for the macro-complexes and for the creation of habitats is to bet again on the same model of speculative economy that has brought us to the gifters that we are, to the gifters of misery that we are and to the gifters of non-access to the gifters that we are. And so we were two years ago and so we're now, and we're still there. And, therefore, why should I now open the apple of this law's derogation? So, because at the length of the past few months we've found different statements, and now it's said again, that we've converted and we're reconverting Barcelona World. We could take the latest statements of the Business and Knowledge Councillor, who assured the Catalan News Agency that this project..., or so, that there is a modulation process, that it is the one that has registered this project, so that we no longer have to refer to him as Barcelona World, but we have to use the original name– but that we all understand with Barcelona World –, that it is the Centro Recreaiu Turístic, where the game has gone from having a fish in the project to being, in the present, a non-essential element of the project. And, therefore, our day: if in the modulation of the Barcelona World project the game becomes a non-essential element, how did you feel to maintain a law, as we say, with names and surnames? How did you feel about keeping the down payment of the game? If you've never heard of lowering the game's tax, we could open another debate here. The high taxes in the game business are thought, like other taxes, not so much to encourage a great recaptation, but to encourage or not to encourage, better said, an intrinsically negative activity. And that brings us back to what is the model of society we want to build. If we assume that the tax of the game, its will, is not to recover much, but not to encourage a type of harmful activities, why are we promoting projects from tax reductions that have a concrete objective? And, in addition, it should be borne in mind that we find ourselves in a somewhat paradoxical situation: even though we do not have competitions in the tax on cultural activities, this one in the Spanish State has increased from 8_per_cent to 21_per_cent. And in a February 2015 motion at the Congress of Deputies, the group, then, of Convergence and Union asked to reduce this tax from 21_per_cent to 10_per_cent. We understand that cultural activities are activities that promote a social model that we share, a social model that should be shared, a social model that broadens the base and that, therefore, this reduction from the tax that it does is to put culture down to all the collections, even though we could lower it much more than 10_per_cent. But, in turn, in a sector and a business that we understand to be harmful, that does not facilitate the redistribution of resources, the participation of all citizens, or the access of everyone, we impose a tax or reduce a tax to 10_per_cent. And, finally, there is an argument based on the need for public inputs: if we say that the game's tax does not have a will or an objective, basically, of recaptation, it does and it is undeniable that recapitation. Therefore, at a time when we are planting more tickets, we are planning to facilitate a greater social expense to reverse the situation of emergence in which much of the Catalan population is living, we allow the luxury, with this decrease, to reach more than 90_million euros. That someone will say: « With 90_million euros, let's not go anywhere. Home, no, with 90 million euros alone, but if we try to find everything, so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.183.0	Mrs. Regant, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.184.0	So, what we do today is... – we said it two years ago, we said it every day –, we say « no to Barcelona World, we say « no to any project that is based on a law based on a project made ad hoc for a few. So, if the project doesn't exist anymore, do we remove this law or, if not, is there maybe something behind it? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.185.0	After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] Next, we will proceed to the joint vote of the three items to the totality, presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Together for the Yes and the People's Party. The vote begins. The papers were approved by 109 votes in favour and 21 against and no abstentions. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the condemnation of terrorist attacks in the city of Lahore, Pakistan]] [[401-00011/11]] We shall continue to read the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia condemning terrorist attacks in the city of Lahore, Pakistan; and, immediately after this reading, we shall make a minute of silence. We also greet, on behalf of all the parliamentary groups and the whole chamber, the Pakistan Console, who accompany us, and all the entities, who also accompany us, of Pakistanis who are here with us, to Catalonia. Ask Mr. Secretary Joan Josep Nuet, who proceeded to the reading of this statement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.186.0	« Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the condemnation of terrorist attacks in the city of Lahore, Pakistan. The Parliament of Catalonia condemns in the strongest way the attacks perpetrated at Gulshan-e-Iqbal Park in Lahore, Pakistan, the past 27 March, as a result of which more than seventy people have died and there are no more than 340 wounds, especially women and children. Parliament sympathizes with the victims of the attacks, and also with families and friends, and with people of Pakistani origin living in and out of Catalonia, and shows their unconditional support for the Pakistani people at these difficult times, especially for the Christian community, which is the object of the attack, but also for the Muslim community, which is the majority among the victims, and for people of other faiths. The Parliament is committed to working positively to replace the culture of violence with the culture of the pa, so that the prevention of conflicts and mediation is the main practice in order to avoid or resolve conflicts, and calls once again to defend and guarantee social justice and respect for human rights as the best means to make the world safer. Palau del Parlament, April 6, 2016. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.187.0	We're doing the minute of silence. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]] [[Proposal for a law regulating the rules of ineligibility and incompatibilities and conflicts of interests of Members of Parliament of Catalonia (debate of totality)]] [[202-00009/11]] The fourth point of the order of the day is the debate on the proposal for a law regulating the rules of ineligibility and incompatibilities and conflicts of interests of Members of the Parliament of Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, is presented by Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.188.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, advisers, Members and Members, allow me the case, even though today a question has already been asked regarding the subject to which I will refer, to begin my intervention today by making a mention, a reflection around the refugee crisis and the attitude of the European Union and its agreement with Turkey. Because it is the first plebiscite we have celebrated since the entry into force of this European Union-Turkey agreement and the transformation of refugee camps into internment camps has begun to take place, from which group deportations have already taken place in Turkey. Look, anything you can say that respects the moral gas industry of the European Union states' attitude to this current refugee crisis will need to be short. I can only say, at the beginning of this intervention and focusing immediately on the question, that our current gas station, our present attitude, will be judged with extraordinary severity for future generations, if it is with the examples we give them we have not mistreated them. Therefore, those of us who have responsibilities and those who can do so we must raise our voices in order to try from all who avoid creating an irreversible situation in which many and many people cannot aspire to make their lives as long as there is such intense terror – or more – as has happened in Paris or Brussels and, in any case, certainly much more constant and persistent. I am now centered on the question, to avoid having to do it the president, to cry out to the question. We, like the Socialist Parliamentary Group, present a proposal for a law regulating the rules of ineligibility and incompatibilities and conflicts of interests of Members and Members of Parliament of Catalonia. I will not hide from them that this initiative arises from the debate that took place in this same chamber, just at the beginning of the legislature, after the Commission of the Statute of the Deputies has been able to talk about incompatibilities, which always, let us say, are examined at the beginning of the mandate. They must remember that at that time, from the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, and with the competition of other groups, there was a debate about the legal dispersion that there was, in the case of Catalonia, at the time of collecting and regulating incompatibilities, ineligibility and possible collusions of interested people, and we immediately collected the glove and decided to carry out an initiative that you seek to remedy these questions. Because the truth is, actually, this dispersion is found; we have a scattered, partial, fragmentary regulation, so to speak, not all of it counts with law rank. And that's it, among many other questions that would be long to examine, because we don't have an electoral law in Catalonia. It has been said these days, debating with parliamentary groups on this initiative, that this would be more object of regulation through an electoral law. It's not that we can't agree with it: we agree; so it is, in fact, as it is collected in many cases, in many other autonomous communities. But let me also say the skepticism that if we were to hope that this regulation is produced through an electoral law, possibly in future legislatures we would find that similar debates arise in respect of this normative dispersion, this fragmentation, etc. So, in fact, the proposition that we do already has a will, so to speak, or I already admit its provisional character. There is no obstacle because then, when it comes to regulating an electoral law of its own in Catalonia, there is a derogatory provision that, let's just say, takes away this proposal of law that women do – if it is up to becoming law. Therefore, we recognize this temporary character and we also recognize the extraordinaryly succinct character of the regulation we propose, because in the background it is a law of three articles: one, dedicated to ineligibility; the other, dedicated to incompatibilities; and the other, dedicated to the rule, so to speak, that it must control the different interests that can be held by Members and Members and, therefore, that it seeks to prevent conflicts of interest. We are ready – and I want to say so from the outset – to go into the debate on all and each of the questions that we have raised in the initial text. There is, to put it this way, no position taken absolutely, let us say, impermeable to the arguments that other groups may expose us in dealing with this proposal of law, because we understand that there can be a reasonable debate, for example, respecting if some of the causes of ineligibility that are recollected thus, as we propose them, in the context of the state, or are also in other autonomous spheres, may be closer to a rule of incompatibilities and not of radical ineligibility. Therefore, we are absolutely willing to talk about it. We could also argue, and we are absolutely open, if one of the proposed incompatibilities is not, let's say, all reasonable or justifiable. And, therefore, absolutely willing, in this, to deal with it in the legislative procedure or, if not, if we have not left any that is justifiable to introduce. And we'd be especially happy to get deeper into the rule than rules the conflict of interest, wouldn't we? We understand that there is a social demand, let us say, powerful, intense, respect to avoid conducts that may imply a collusion of public and private interests, because certain public charges, therefore, in other, private or public, that may generate some situation that is ethically reprobable, even if there is no conduct that effectively leads you to think that it has been committed unlawfully, etc., no? But... Therefore, we would pay particular attention to the development of this. We are convinced that, if we can process this law, the wording can improve and that, moreover, with all certainty, we can make a regulation, therefore, more complete, with the points of view that bring the different parliamentary groups. And, therefore, in this sense, I must especially thank the parliamentary groups of Junt for the Yes and the People's Party, which initially presented an issue to the totality, for having withdrawn it, because we believe that there is an opportunity to discuss around the regulation of these questions to which I have been referring. And, of course, I reiterate the relatively modest nature of the proposal that we are making, because we understand that this is a regulation that we need to have while we are not able to have a regulation of the electoral regime in Catalonia, that it is a political objective that, as you know, is repeated debate of investiture debate on investiture and that we have not yet been able to settle down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.189.0	I inform you that, as Mr Pedret has said, the reports to the totality of the parliamentary groups of Junts for the Yes and the People's Party have been withdrawn. Therefore, we will now continue with the turn of interventions from different groups to fix their position. In the first place has the word José María Espejo, of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.190.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are back to a debate today, which in part, or entirely, should have been resolved in the last parliamentary term, and in fact I think it should have been resolved decades ago – decades ago – but Catalonia remains without a complete, fair electoral law, which regulates each and every aspect of the electoral procedure, control systems, participation of the public media, advertising, ineligibility and incompatibilities, which is what this proposal speaks about, but above all we continue without the great key of what must be a proper and truly fair electoral law, which is the regulation of the representation of citizens, in such a way as to ensure that the vote of all citizens is worth the same. Today, in this Parliament, we have an absolute parliamentary majority which does not represent the social majority of voters in the last elections in Catalonia. And that's a democratic anomaly – it's a democratic anomaly. It is legal and therefore binding. We do obey and accept the laws even if we don't like them. But it's an anomaly, after all. And this proposal does not come to put, much less, a solution to this, and it would be in vain if it were intended, because it is obvious – and it was clearly seen in the last legislature – that those who benefit from this electoral law – very Spanish, by the way – do not want to change it – is possibly the Spanish law that they like most, it is the unjust electoral law – and that is why Catalonia is the only autonomous community that does not have its own electoral law. But well, this is what there is; hard lex, sed lex, as the legal aphorism that Mr Pedret, as a lawyer, says, therefore, also knows perfectly well. This is also the difference between independence groups and groups that are for respect for the rule of law. We, the laws, even if we do not like them, have to respect them, we have to respect an absolute parliamentary majority that does not respond to the social majority of voters of the last elections in Catalonia. What, then, do you want to regulate this law? Well, he wants to regulate a specific, or very specific, part of what the electoral law should be. It is an important part; not the most important part, but it is important. And in this sense, even if the very statement of reasons admits that it is a patch, so to speak, it seems to us good that it is spoken..., because we believe that citizens demand, in the field of the compatibility and the dedications of politicians, ever more explicit commitments with the enormous responsibility that the performance of the representative function means. The proposal speaks of two very different things: the ineligibility, on the one hand, and the incompatibility, on the other, of the Members of this House. The first would be a matter of that desired and denied electoral law, and the second would be a matter of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Certainly, when the proposal speaks of the ineligibility of Members of Parliament, it simply repeats the great majority of those already contained in different state rules, such as, for example, the General Electoral Law, or also sectoral laws of the Generalitat of Catalonia that are already in force. And in this sense, the condition – and let me say it in this way – of law becomes manifest again..., a little, a patchy law, to the extent that it is matter that should, I believe, be completely regulated in that Catalan electoral law. This is a patch law, and I'm not saying it with, say, offense, it's what the law itself says, isn't it? , says the law itself, which says it is a succinct regulation with provisional vocation, but with legal rank. Here the criticism would come in that I believe that if what is already there are patches and they already have legal rank, perhaps from a technical point of view I don't think it is the most convenient thing to set ourselves up again to do another provisional thing, that what should be is the subject of an electoral law when we have it complete, and so on. But, well, anyway, I think it's good to talk about it. And, therefore, in this regard, our full support for this initiative, and that we discuss it. I was talking, as I said, about ineligibility, which is already covered by some rules. And then there's the incompatibilities. At this point, we must also say that we are already discussing, at least in the Bureau, a first draft to be sent later to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on what should be the Members' code of conduct, which must also regulate incompatibilities, so I sincerely hope that we can have that code of conduct in this legislature. In any case, as far as incompatibilities are concerned, the proposal is again a relation of those which are already generally the result of some scattered rules, and I recognize that with some interesting addition, which is what I believe also makes it justify that we return to..., well, to make another law on it. What is that addition that I find very interesting? It is, therefore, the inclusion as incompatible of the figure of the senator with the status of MP of the Parliament. We cannot agree more with this issue. For some group in this chamber, it is now customary to appoint their president as senator. At first they tabled an amendment in its entirety; they have withdrawn it, and I hope that this is the first sign that they are prepared to do so, which I consider to be anomalous, so it is not repeated. Why? Because being a member of the Catalan Parliament I think it is a huge responsibility, and I believe that the citizens are asking us to exercise it with more than absolute dedication. I think it's okay to accumulate political positions: deputy, senator, mayor, councilman. And, in this sense, to you..., and it seems to me good that you have said that you are willing to talk about the inclusion of other possible incompatibilities, because you have been forgotten to include something that goes in the same line. I mean, I don't understand why they're proposing that the office of deputy cannot be reconciled with that of senator, but they haven't included the office of mayor. I believe that the office of mayor is somewhat more committed to the exercise of the executive function in a given municipality than the office of senator. Basically it is that the senator does a few things; that is why we propose that this legislative chamber be eliminated, or at least to the extent that it is currently regulated. I believe that the office of mayor is important enough and requires that total and absolute dedication. I don't think it's right that these two measuring rods have been put on: Senator no, because you don't have any, but mayors do, because you, I don't know if you have any, maybe you have, but in any case you have, huh? , in their parliamentary group, and mayors of very important cities of Catalonia, which I believe deserve to be dedicated exclusively to the service of their citizens. We, in our party statutes, have an obligation for all public offices that two public offices cannot be compatible for a period of more than a year, and also exceptionally, exceptionally. All our current deputies who were governors of their cities have renounced their minutes as councillor at the same time that the legislature was launched; the last, Mrs Maria Valle, this is her first plenary session, and already formalized last week her resignation as governor of Cerdanyola. You say in your proposal that it cannot be ignored, I quote, "the growing and very reasonable social demand for transparency in the performance of public offices, including the elected ones. Therefore, following this line, let us also talk about the impossibility of being mayor and deputy at the same time. I think it is necessary for a mayor to devote himself exclusively..., or at least the mayors of major cities; we can talk about the number of inhabitants, but at least the mayors of major cities have to be in his city looking after his neighbors. I believe that you are looking for a serious debate. I agree and am prepared to hold a serious debate. I believe that all the groups in the House, having withdrawn the amendments, it seems clear that we are prepared to keep this debate serious and we will therefore eliminate those double standards of measurement, because I believe that people are already tired. I appreciate the initiative. And, in this regard, you can count on our support to discuss the most specific aspects of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.191.0	Then there's the words of Mr. Joan Coscubiela, of Catalonia Yes, it's Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.192.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, the Socialist Group's proposal for a law seems absolutely opportune to me. We do not understand, honestly, the totality papers presented for the People's Party and Joints for the Yes. We know they've taken them off, and I think it's a good iniquitous news of what should be a very necessary parliamentary process. One of the reasons, it has already been said, but it is very obvious, and I want to reiterate it, is that this proposal of law will fill a hole, a huge hole that has Catalan legality. Thirty-seven years after the approval of the Statute of Sau, the Parliament has been unable to approve a Catalan electoral law, which makes it possible to manifest once more that some political forces fill the mouths of the national construction of Catalonia, provided that it does not affect its partisan and electoral interests. How it does not seem that, in this legislature, it is normal or abbreviated, whether it is ordinary or extraordinary, there are many possibilities to pass an electoral law – so good I am mistaken –, I think it is a good opportunity that the Socialist Group offers us to at least cover this hole, huh? I know that some people are deeply convinced that now we just have to do one thing and then we'll do the rest. We must have already proved that we're more of the culture of the meantime, huh? , in honor of the friend Sacristán..., and in català, entertaining, while trying to do something. And this one I think is appropriate. We share with the Socialist Group the need, therefore, to have its own legislation on rules of ineligibility and incompatibilities. Then we'll have the opportunity to build it collectively, but I'd like to put forward some respectful opinions. I think we need to be very, very careful at the time to legislate well the causes of ineligibility and incompatibility. I think it's obvious that in both cases you can't be a member of the Catalan Parliament, but they don't have the same origin or the same consequences, and it's good that we don't confuse them. From this point of view, we believe that there are some problems at the time of its delimitation; problems that are not us, problems that we also hear are in the Spanish state legislation of LOREG, and that we should take advantage of the opportunity to solve 'as well as the definite text. I believe that following the reasonings of the Constitutional Court – I forgive for the sacrilege of an appointment like this on a day like today, but in this sense, from the point of view of legal reflections, it is useful to us – ineligibility entails incompatibility, but not the other way around. And, therefore, from this point of view, there are fears that we have to deal with, above all – above all – because they have an origin, I insist, and some completely different consequences. In the judgment, I think I recall, from September 2014, on the ground of the constitutional appeal lodged by the Spanish Government against the Andalusian Electoral Law, the Constitutional Court – which sometimes does sensible things – recalls that the rule of ineligibility affects the electoral right, while the rule of incompatibility affects the parliamentary right; it is different things, and we have to keep it very present. In clear and Catalan language, the causes of being unable to be elected, of ineligibility – complicated word, at least for me – are an impediment to participating in the electoral lists, while there are no causes of incompatibility until this election is consumed by the citizens. This has important consequences. Allow me to use an example, and I hope no one gets it wrong. And forgive me the Romeva Counsellor, because I used his figure as an example illustrative. If the Romeva Councillor is sentenced to disqualification for wanting to exercise his duties as an External Councillor as if he were an independent minister of state – God and the Constitutional Court do not want to, huh? I'm just setting it as an example – it would be in some ineligible causes, much so that it's declared unsubmissive. However, if Catalonia succeeds in fulfilling the condition of independence and continues to form part of the European Union and Councillor Romeva was elected President of the European Council, then, well, he could continue to present himself as Member of the Parliament of Catalonia, but he could not make the conditions of President of the European Council and Member of the Parliament of Catalonia compatible, he should have chosen, because there is a cause for incompatibility here. Well, that's the only way I've had, with a clear example, to express what I think we need to lay very clearly in this sense. On the system of incompatibilities we share the general approach proposed by the Socialist Group. I don't know if, at the time of completion, we can do so, because some of the interventions, especially that of Mr. Mirror, at this time, will be complex to process this law, right? But above all, I think we need to make some things clear. Above all, I believe that we agree with the Socialist Group's proposal for a law on an idea, and it is that we must regulate the two types of incompatibilities: full incompatibility, including functional and wage incompatibility, and wage incompatibility. It's different things, from this point of view. Another example – and now I am forgiven by Mr Albiol. If Mr Albiol continues on this condition, the logic is that he can't pay two wages. I suppose that's where we're all at, even the People's Group. Now... – because in this case it is a wage incompatibility. But what we are proposing, and what is proposed by the Socialist Group, is that incompatibility is full, that is to say that it is not possible to be a member of the Parliament of Catalonia and a senator at the same time. For one obvious question: for the need to develop correctly the tasks that correspond to the representative mandate that we have rejected from the citizens. We'll discuss the mayors' time, huh? I honestly believe it's not a matter of which mayors have lists or not. For example, I think it is opportune that at the time of analyzing this theme we distinguish the difference that may be mayor of Barcelona or mayor of Sant Jaume de Frontanyà, a village..., the least town of Catalonia, eh? Making total incompatibilities, I don't know. I think we need to keep talking about it, but I'm saying it because, if we're serious about this, we're trying to get party cheats out of all sides. But making it clear in this case, I believe that we must insist very – very – on the issue of incompatibility in the private sector as well. It's a matter that I don't think is well dealt with. But here we have to run very first, because it depends on what we end up causing undesirable and not unwanted effects; I hope you don't want anyone, huh? It is obvious – it is obvious – that I believe that incompatibility in certain private activities which enter into collusion with public interests, to those enterprises which are with interests within the sphere of public activity, must be a full incompatibility, not only wage, but also functional, full, that is to say, it cannot be two things at the same time, and that we should be relieved of some things that I have had to live in my condition as a member of the Congress of Deputies and that after that they have publicly explained, some things are quite shameful. But, said that, I think that after we see the case of the wage incompatibility of certain private activities, because depending on how we regulate it we can cause an effect contrary to what I think we want to plant. We can't do this in such a strict way or in such a small way... that in the end we can only be Members of the Catalan Parliament if they are political professionals or if they come from the public service, and not those who have a previous and anticipated professional bagatge, and that they want to continue to maintain in their future, and that they want to establish some compatibility regime. I think that we have to approach it and we have to approach it, in addition, with the sereneness that entails the difficulty of doing it with balance from this point of view. Because, otherwise, what we can clearly raise is a situation of a negative specialization of this Parliament of Catalonia. Obviously, it is obvious that this issue is delicate, because, just to avoid the issue of rotating doors, we need to regulate some things with a lot, a lot of strength. But let me tell you something: while I'm in warlock, there are no rotating doors, there are doors to the nose. The people who, in their public activity, after a private activity, come to be critical of economic power or political power, when they leave, have serious difficulties in returning to their professional activity, because these economic power and political power have already taken charge of screwing their door to the nose, in the literal sense of the term. And, therefore, we also need to look for mechanisms to prevent this from happening. Well, ultimately, it's about, with this approach that I'm making, avoiding that some people who make a legitimate choice to dedicate a specific moment of their life to political representation, end up being condemned to civilian death, because they dared to confront economic power at some point. It is obviously not a matter of resolving it now, but I wanted to point out some of the axes of our settlement. Well, with what I'm optimistic about, I'm convinced that I can approve..., turn this law proposal into a law, and, if I'm okay – why not? – take the road and set us the future election of Catalonia, which I hope – I hope – will not have to wait for our nets to be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.193.0	The words of Mrs Esperança García, of the Popular Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.194.0	Okay. Good morning, gentlemen, deputies and deputies. As it has progressed, the People's Party has withdrawn its slogan from the whole of this bill by the Socialist Party. It is a proposal for a law – it must be said, Mr Pedret – that it is born recognizing that it is insufficient; recognizing, moreover, that it is with a vocation of inadequacy and temporality. And that's what I'm telling you because you recognize it in practically the first paragraph. That is, in the first paragraph you say: "Because of all the repeated attempts to pass a law governing the Catalan electoral regime, the Catalan Parliament has not yet achieved this end. And then, because of the absence of proper regulation in this matter, it implies that most aspects of it, must be governed by the Spanish regulations on the general electoral regime. That is to say, you acknowledge, practically in the first paragraph and in the second paragraph, that it is as a result of not adopting a Catalan electoral law that you present this bill. Even a little later, you admit, that it is temporary – that it is temporary – it is insufficient, and you present it in the meantime... – we are always in the temporality of that of "in the meantime", until there is a Catalan electoral law, isn't there? We, however, have withdrawn that amendment, have we not? , and I believe that we have withdrawn it despite the fact that the key to its proposal for a law is, precisely, to recognize, therefore, that we do not have Catalan electoral legislation; that, moreover, the regulation that we have is scarce, insufficient, not legally secure, is not adequate, either, to regulate the regime of incompatibilities. And it gives the impression that, with this bill, you like you want to change... – in the absence of that consensus necessary for a new Catalan electoral law –, you want to amend two laws: the Catalan electoral law, which is not passed – which is not approved – and that it was never done, even when you ruled, and that you also condemn the eternal dream. You have renounced..., by means of this bill you renounce and condemn the eternal dream that Catalonia will finally have an electoral law of its own electoral regime. And they do, even, knowing that during all these thirty-six– thirty-six years, I repeat, that it is quite – it has already been almost – almost – asleep, not condemned to eternal sleep, but very asleep, isn't it? And precisely when you, on certain occasions, say: "The capacity for self-government in Catalonia, man, also has limits, eh? It's not that extensive. As from the People's Party we defend, consider and, moreover, test; that is, one of the competences that can be developed here, precisely, is to have an electoral regime of our own and you, even with this proposal, give up having it, right? And they also want to change – let me tell you – even the very nature of the Senate. It is quite surprising that in this proposal you do not include certain mayors, certain populations, whose need for exclusive dedication to the exercise of office, because... you cannot be Members, for example, in this Chamber. But no, it does it only with the senators and it does it only with the appointed senators, precisely, thinking... – thinking –, appointed precisely in this parliamentary chamber, isn't it? , as if precisely the Members who are in this parliamentary chamber were not the ideal ones to represent and give voice to the interests of the autonomous community that has appointed them through their chamber in the Senate. However, in spite of that, we are withdrawing the amendment. Although we believe that you could have proposed a much more ambitious reform – let me tell you, don't you? – as, for example, Mrs Cifuentes in Madrid, who said: "I will try to improve our democratic system with elements of transparency, regeneration and also setting a regime of incompatibilities, and I will do so through a new electoral law, special for the community, and I will do so, too, by amending the Statute." You don't, you give up on that and it looks like you adapt... I'd like to think otherwise, huh? , but it seems that you are adapting the same system that you are having in the Congress of Deputies these days, presenting derogations that are symbolic; that is, that it is difficult for you to reach a good port, and that the only thing that you serve, practically, is to use them as a kind of pre-election platform, in short, to make it look at the thing. But, however, we consider it not bad. That of course it will not be for the PP that we do not advance in transparency, in regeneration and in which our democratic system can be improved. And that if that requires, then, opening a paper to see how this law can be developed, of course, that we will say yes, right? And we're not going to be an impediment to that. And that is why, and being brief, we have withdrawn that amendment, so that we can continue to talk and debate about that improvement. But let's do it seriously, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.195.0	Next is the words of Mrs. Anna Gabriel, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.196.0	Yeah, good morning. Good morning again. You have all talked about the lack of the Catalan electoral law; it seems that some of you are now nervous that Spanish and Frisian legislation governs us in order to have its own legislation. In any case, the supporting memory of the initiative also called for this. And we, who in the past parliamentary term was one of the pieces of legislation that we actively participated in, know what the problem of the Catalan electoral law is, and we know that basically the problem that you have a good part of is how to attribute the exemptions to the circumstances, it's a question of representativeness, it's a question of who wins or loses one, two or three Members. That's the dick. I don't know if you'll have the ability to overcome it; it makes us feel like it doesn't. And, therefore, in this legislature and, moreover, with a need for two-thirds of the chamber that I support an electoral law, you will probably also not have the ability to agree who loses or who wins Members. Another of the arguments that you make to justify the need for the law is this possibly growing demand for transparency with respect to the performance of public and elected functions. We are part of this social demand for transparency, we share this concern, but we would say that we do not comply, moreover, with a mere demand for transparency. The truth of the matter is that we want to go a little further and we want effective responses to one of the most important problems, that is, that we report more every time we can – and we do it repeatedly, unfortunately – that it is the systemic scourge of corruption. They're not winged cases, as some say. You know that we defend that corruption is system and that the system is corruption. The Catalan countries concentrate 31.8_percent of the accused in the 135 main cases of corruption in the Spanish State, more than 1,900 accused, 170 convictions in the course, only, of the later legislature. Of these 1,900 accused – the vast majority linked to the People's Party and the PSOE – 605 correspond to the Catalan Countries, there have been 50 convictions; the majority, linked to urban corruption, fraud and irregular contracting. The Principality currently has 178 defendants and 20 recent convictions: Caixa Penedès, Hisenda, Pallerols and one of the fishes, that of the hotel, of the case Palau. To the Islands, 313 accused and 20 convicted: Scala, Make-up, Andratx, Palma Arena. I to the Valencia Country, 114 accused, 10 convictions: Cooperation, Diputació de Castelló. 17,28_percent of the Catalan country councilors charged; 295 autonomous councilors, 17,28_percent of whom only 17 have been tried and only 2,7_per_cent have been convicted. There are many paradigmatic cases, but some link an autonomously condemned expression, Jaume Matas; a deputy expression, Carlos Fabra, and an ex-economic adviser of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Planasdemunt. The study Approximation to a geography of urban corruption in Spain quantifies 646 cases of corruption linked to the real estate cylinder and speculative wave in the period 2000-2010. The 25_per_cent we concentrate on the Catalan Countries: we double the state average. The 44_percent of these cases affected the People's Party and the PSOE; the rest, the remaining 25_percent, therefore, were autonomous or local parties. Will this, therefore, allow this proposal to put you on this plot of favors, privileges, unjust enrichments? No, absolutely; I'm sure not. It will allow this law, therefore, that we work – and you said so – compatibility systems, declaration of benefits, adjust a little with which the Member's pocket can be compatible; it is correct. It will allow this law, too, therefore, to make a certain regulatory grouping – it is fine, as in plantation. But we, therefore, find it clearly insufficient and we will try, as far as the margin allows, to go a little more to the bone spring. And he also pointed out in one of the interventions: how do we have a system that allows the rotating doors? What we are before we are Members and Members, and, above all, what we are after we are Members and Members. To us, we would like to put aside situations that can bear the name Boi Ruiz, Morenos, Soria, Imma Mayol or Laia Bonet, among many, many, many others. People who enter and exit private activity, who surely do so legally, but for us, in no case, therefore, is not ethical. We didn't know the PP was going to remove the puzzle altogether. In fact, we have to know by listening in an indiscreet way to a conversation that had two members of the People's Party. And when asked and told, "Why didn't you tell us you were removing the item? They said to us, "We have already told Junts for the Yes." Mayors of the PP: Proper Parliamentary Group, Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. They can go directly to us when they change some legislative initiative if they think so. So, we don't have to position ourselves around this whole thing that we've learned in this way that we've been removed, but let's just announce that we'll face this question of law with the will to go as far as we can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.197.0	Next, there is the words of Mrs Magda Casamitjana, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.198.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Before we begin, also, Mr Pedret, let me mention my intervention, saying that we are absolutely in agreement with you on the disgrace of refugees, on the way in which deportations and injustice and the miserable, also, attitude, of Europe are being carried out. But I must say that we are pleased that the Government of Catalonia, represented – and represented – for the Councillor Romeva, for the Councillor Bassa and for the Councillor Jané and many mayors, has already made an express demand for the dignity of all these refugees and deportees. Therefore, Catalonia is there and we want to be there. I'm starting my intervention. Thank you, President, as I said, Councillor, Councillors, Member, Together for the Yes, we have presented a message to the whole, as you know, to this proposal for a law presented for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, because we consider it more appropriate that this regulation should be established in the electoral legislation itself, and thus the debate should be integrated into the framework of what it means, what it entails and what are the limits and obligations of political representation. We also believe that outside this framework there is a debate only in the sphere of major or minor restriction, without taking into account the combination of political representation, as I said. This regulation has to be established for Junts per el Si in the electoral regulation, and not as an individual issue disconnected and favoring, once more, the scattering that all party representatives have said on this issue. Together for the Yes, moreover, the mark in which the purpose of the law is presented is not, nor is it, the most suitable for the historical situation we live in. We are convinced that we must enter into this process with courage and determination, from the law of legal transition, in the establishment of the Catalan legal system to draw up, once and for all, an electoral law of Catalonia without links with the Spanish State. Finally, however, we have withdrawn the message to the totality, as I told you yesterday, because, if this proposal of law does not prosper, it would seem that we do not want to talk about these or some of these themes, and for that reason, and why be clear, Together for the Yes, the majority group of this chamber, we want to be there, we want to talk about it, and above all debate, and above all, also, why not? Listen to everyone, also the other band, and participate and collaborate and facilitate the handling of all the debates that this room genres and proposals. Don't take away any debate, we don't. We agree, honourable Member, with some things that I will say at this time, that despite repeated attempts, a Catalan electoral law could not be approved in Parliament. We need to do a self-criticism today, and to do, if you please, in this sense, possible, now, among all, to hold it. We must be able to do so, Mr. Member – I don't know who said it –, to do it and, as Mr. Coscubiela has said, to do it at a time when there is no solution at the moment. Absence of this regulation implies that most aspects of this should be governed by general Spanish law. This is a fact that we absolutely agree to change as well as the representative of the People's Party said. We want to improve it, not just change it because yes, and, moreover, we are convinced that we will greatly improve the democratic system, because it will be ours and everyone will be able to participate. It's true that at this time they can't regulate properly and sufficiently – all that is regulated, huh? , let us not fail to say this – the rule of ineligibility and incompatibility and situations of conflicts of interest of Members of Parliament, because the applicable legislation, as has been said, is this dispersed force, a rule of disposition. From the Parliamentary Group of the PSC, it makes this proposal very clear to us that you want to achieve two ends in which we are absolutely in agreement with you, except for some of the words and phrases, which I think, in the end, we will come to an agreement. Firstly, to group together all the legislation scattered in the field of incompatibilities and ineligibility of Catalan parliamentarians. All right, but we'd rather, and we insist, not group things together, because, if not, it's a reprint of things and laws and a thousand things that are incongruous between them and we'd rather do one of them again. The second is to have a Catalan law of its own in relation to this matter, yes we do agree – a law of its own in this matter – and let me add that for us, together for the Yes, you read it, too, in many other matters, which fit. And so we try and we're doing it from the government and from the parliament. We share that we cannot ignore the growing and very reasonable social demand for transparency respecting the performance of public functions. Okay. But together for the Yes we no longer want any more provisionality, no hands attached, no dependence on a third, we want a law of our own, adjusted to the moment we live and for our country. We would like to add that they have already taken steps; this will be one more. In the joint presentation of the Law of Transparency, in which all the groups of the Parliament participated and led the members..., two of the integral groups of Junts for the Yes, the code of conduct of the Members and Members was inserted. You know and know that the Bureau will present a draft to the Rules Committee and that it will soon be approved. Therefore, we have one more piece – than a patch – of what the Catalan electoral law will have to be. Together we speak of the present, too; Mr. Coscubiela, also of the while, eh? Also from the entrance, from the while... For you it is necessary, gentlemen of the PSC, now that there is a regulation, so succinctly and professionally, of this law. And we're on the same page, and now we're also entertaining, but we don't forget that parallel, and we don't take refuge in debate, and we definitely define and work every day firm and solid laws that contribute to the transparency and participation of everyone. The invitation, therefore, also invites you and the members of your group to participate from the process constitute through legal questioning, too, to say his own. We invite you to participate and also to talk about the electoral law of Catalonia, a law that is simple, pieceless, unique, with its unique competitions. It is the will of Juntes for the Yes that I participate in it all, not only the parties represented in the chamber – the "independents", that we would say –; so that the future electoral law of Catalonia is written and discussed with the collaboration and participation of everyone. Finally, and I am referring to the proposal, to say that the proposal of law that we have on the table sets out, for us, the repeal of a whole series of legislative requirements that have been the result of approval and the consent of the Parliament of Catalonia. We'll have to look at how we're compatible all folded, and that's why we insist that we're a new one, we don't reschedule or add anything together. From the structure and articulation of the initiative it can be stressed that the objective of this proposal is to establish better regulation, while we must do so that we have found and that it incorporates inaccuracies, errors, omissions to the current law and indeterminate precepts. And enter – and I will not enter now in the detail of every thing, but in this – in the incompatibilities of the high ranks of the Generality. We take it as a compromise, like Juntes per el Yes, to be-here, to be able to outline and make proposals to this initial text that you present and to make it all together. We will have time, therefore, to talk about it, to debate, and we are prepared to work together so that there is also a solid regulation of the rule of ineligibility and incompatibilities of conflicts and interests of Members of Parliament of Catalonia, an indispensable part of an indispensable law, which is the electoral law of our country. Let's talk about it, then; together for the Yes we are and there we are Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.199.0	Mr. Pedret, why are you asking me for the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.200.0	Out of contradiction, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.201.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.202.0	Very briefly. No; to tell Mrs García that she presented it in clau pragmatic force of this law, that we have already said that she was modest in her ambitions, it is pragmatism, not a renunciation to debate about an electoral law in which they do not believe that they invite us, we would participate whenever there is a question. And to Mrs. Gabriel, tell her that we are absolutely prepared to enter the debate on the question of the names' rotating doors, which, obviously, we knew from the beginning that this law that we proposed could not be the most appropriate space to deal with all the issues that they have to deal with with the phenomenon of political corruption, but that, if they are raised in the debate of the question of the question and we believe that we should not open another, of the question, we will find ourselves perfectly there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.203.0	The debate is over, as the two items to the totality, back from the proposal of the law, have been withdrawn, this initiative continues its processing. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the occasion of the World Day of Physical Activity]] [[401-00010/11]] And now, again, before we suspend the session, we will read a statement from the Parliament of Catalonia on the occasion of the World Day of Physical Activity. And we greet the Secretary General of the Esport, who will accompany us. Madame Ramona Barrufet, secretary of the Bureau, asked to read the statement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.204.0	« Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia with the motto of the World Day of Physical Activity. The Parliament of Catalonia, with the motto of the World Day of Physical Activity, which is celebrated on April 6, expresses its commitment to the incorporation of this healthy habit into the lives of all citizens and all possible areas, and, at the same time, gives support to the Toronto Manifesto for physical activity. The Toronto Physical Activity Manifesto is a tool to fight for the promotion of a physically active lifestyle and a call to action for all countries, regions and communities to strive to increase political and social compromise to enhance healthy physical activity for everyone. In Catalonia, the Platform for Physical Activity, Sport and Health and the National Platform for the Promotion of Physical Activity reflect this effort. Physical activity generates physical and mental health, foresees malalties, improves social cohesion and quality of life, provides economic benefits and contributes to the sustainability of the environment. Catalonia celebrates for seven years the World Day of Physical Activity to raise awareness of the importance it has for its well-being to achieve a healthy level of physical activity, and joins Agita Mundo and the World Health Organization to raise awareness of the need to make thirty minutes of physical activity, in the case of adults, and sixty minutes, in the case of infants and adolescents. Encany the motto reflects this recommendation very well: child actiu equal to healthy adult. It is with this interest that during this week a lot of events are taking place in Catalonia to enhance this awareness. The reference of encany are the acts that will be celebrated on April 10 in Sant Cugat del Vallès. The Catalonian Parliament expresses the need to work together because daily physical activity is part of the life style of citizens. Palau del Parlament, April 6, 2016.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.205.0	The session is suspended until three-quarters of the late; as we have finished the Ple twelve minutes later than the forecast, so we will also begin one-quarter of the late hour, three-quarters of four. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.206.0	It's part of the session. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's the ones we need. [[Question to the Government on fiscal and budgetary policy]] [[300-00025/11]] The fifth item on the agenda is the question to the Government on fiscal and fiscal policy presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. There's a word from Mr. Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.207.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice President, we're on 6 April and for what you do to your government's fiscal and budgetary policy, the hottest is in the water. One thing is that you are not in a position to present the assumption, the proposal for a presumption, we understand that, but the other is that, six months after September 27, not even the basics of this fiscal and presuppositional policy can be realized. I don't know if you remember, but you've had four opportunities to tell the Catalonian Parliament something about your politics, and you've run away from studying. Remember? The last time he ran away, in this style Junqueras, it was there: "Ui, he asked me too many questions together; I will answer him another day. So, well, we're here, another day. I'll give you a minute now. I hope in two minutes I can answer some of them at least, huh? We want to make a fundamental debate about the basics of your government's fiscal and budgetary policy. You carry all the time conditioning all the policies to the fact that there are assumptions. And the first question I have to ask is, is it really so important? Do you think that some assumptions that in the best of the cases were approved at the end of July, in the best of the cases, are assumptions, or is it already a piece of work past and in the best of the cases, will serve for five months later? But, of course, these lost months... you could say, "I just joined the government. And it's true. But we are not here by chance, this is not a biblical curse; the one who chose to bypass the legislature and serve September 27 as a political strategy to serve his partisan interests, yes, emboldened with a country strategy, and therefore ignoring the priority of social emergence, were you. From this point of view, therefore, it is worth highlighting – and I hope that you do not blame time, bad weather –... We are aware, we have said it some other time, of the difficulty of presenting assumptions in these conditions, we are very conscious, who say the opposite is mistaken; but, look, its difficulties are not economic alone, which are very important, we do not deny it, they are above all political: your Government does not have, at the moment, the majority of Parliament to approve assumptions, but what is worse is that it does not have policies to do so. I would like to say: it has a policy, but it's so awkward, excuse me, it's so, from a political point of view, it's schizoid, that it's materially impossible that you can pull this off with assumptions. The government practices this policy to what we are so accustomed to: in the mornings – we have seen it today – great declarations of disconnection and disobedience; in the afternoons, travel with AVE or with the bridge yesterday to Madrid to negotiate. And we don't take it back, which I negotiated; what I say, what we give it, is that there are things that life can't match. Well, you can do anything, because it was the head of the opposition and it was the support of the previous government; now, this job is up to others, and you, from the position of a little more uncomfortable vice president of the government. Go ahead one more time the next. We share with you – and it's not rhetorical, it's a deep feeling – the value of tremendous injustice in relation to Catalonia's financing, and that we repeat another time, and it can test us when you want, Catalonia's commitment Yes, it is to demand and achieve a better financing for Catalonia and, above all, to put on hold the asphyxiation that the Spanish government is practicing with Catalonia and with other autonomous communities, as we have seen these days with València and Extremadura, and with others. Finally, I venture to say, with Minister Montoro's sadistic attitudes. Today, you have generated a certain complicity there; but, of course, you can see how the smile escapes when you say you're offended and it turns out that above you are the culprits... So, I told him in the face, I can tell you here: this is what you have at your side. But, of course, it's very difficult; it's very difficult for you to continue with this plan to cry out in the morning to disobedience and disconnection and then lay such an absolute element of pragmatism. Well, impossible isn't, because this is ultimately the old technique that this Parliament invented a Mr Pujol, in Catalan politics, and that many others have come to practice, isn't it? : when there are great moments of pragmatism, we mount floral fires and thus hide pragmatism. From this point of view, let me also say one thing, which you will have to assume as a government: the asphyxiation of the assumptions of the Generality does not come only from the People's Party – which is it –, it comes basically from a lot of policies that have been voted for in Europe and Spain by people who are majority in the Group of Joints for Yes and in its Government. I want to remind you that the party of the presidents, of the president but and president Puigdemont, voted in Europe and voted in Spain these policies of stabilization, and they defended me to say that even with patriotic fervor, eh? Patriotic, you know, not of the Catalan nation, but of the finance nation. Without oblivion that a part of the fall of public finances, of the recaptancy of the Generality, also comes from decisions of the previous governments. You know it: the change in the estate tax assumed a significant fall, for much later it was relieved. Or, from this point of view, the decisions taken repeatedly for the Group of Democratic Convergence in Madrid, with the tax of societies, with some others, which end up, in the end, also in the participation of Catalonia in the conjunction of the tickets. From this point of view, we, in making these considerations, offer you the opportunity now to debate with you, as a matter of course before the presentation of the assumptions, some of the axes of this fiscal and presuppositional policy, and look at what I am saying, and the possibility of seeking agreements because this presuppositional policy approved by the Parliament of Catalonia allows you to face the situation of social emergence, not as we would like to, but at least allows you to face truth and without traps. But, of course, that's why we have a first thing to ask you, Mr. Vice President, and you know that you have to solve it; you have to decide whether to continue with the hypersurrealism of, in the morning, making speeches of disobedience and disconnection, and, in the late days, going to Madrid to ask for assisted breathing..., or because of the hyperrealism that all groups have had the opportunity to prove with the working group about the debt with the team of your department; an act of hyperrealism that surprises, that is almost a Scottish duo, huh? , from this point of view. Now, let me tell you that, with regard to the issue of public debt, of course, it is not only a matter of managing public debt and deficit well, that is essential, and it will have us on its side; it is a matter of doing something else, because, if we only manage public debt effectively, we are condemning the citizens of Catalonia to be working and paying taxes until 2060, in the best of cases, to pay only the interests of the debt. You, this government, must begin to address in depth the issue of a process of restructuring the debt, with all that it supposes, even with the objective of the take-off, and it will have us on its side. I already know that this cannot be done only from Catalonia, I know that this means complicity with other autonomous communities and possibly starting working with a European natural front, and that this will not be available for the 2016 assumptions, but we must do so, because, if not, we are condemning Catalans to this, to pay, to work and to pay, only to pay interest. The same way we need to re-discuss the distribution of the deficit among autonomous communities. You were explaining it this morning. We need to lay it down, the situation of injustice there is in this sense. And here we can find accomplices with other autonomous communities. The same way we're clear that we have to demand, in the meantime, because while we have to do things, all the time the renewal of the autonomic finance model. Well, for these three scenarios that you, if you continue with this strategy of hyperrealism that we saw the other day in your department, you have to follow, you need complicity with other agents, other autonomous communities, in this room and out of this room. Clearly, but this, if I may say so, is very difficult to match with the other speeches, would our president say, slow down, huh? What do you do, I guess, to cover up hyperrealism. Clearly, if you continue with the mystical admiralty that these will not be autonomous assumptions, then we hardly go, because, clearly, between the said and the fact there must be some similarity. Some concrete things we plant. These assumptions, or the accompanying law, must face up to the reform of the estate tax once and for all. You cannot give up taking advantage of the margin of EUR 500-600 million that could be derived from a reform of the estate tax. I hope that you are not among those who, when they address the debate on the inheritance tax... – I told you that I did not like the intervention that you made in your appearance to the Commission of Economics, which was preparing a perilous land so as not to do so –, I hope that you are not among those who prefer to protect 1_percent of the richest Catalans at the cost of renouncing this amount. The same way we ask you also that it is clearly stated about the possibility of increasing the tax capacity of the asset tax – I know you have these limited elements – and why not? , to re-discuss among all if we can improve the progression of the autonomic tram of the IRPF's tax, which is not only to push imposed at the top, is to redistribute the pressure between the different trams. And that's a margin I think we need to take advantage of. Certainly, I know you say that you have begun to do so, but we have a few hopes that once and for all the statistics of the Generality will appear on the tax side on empty habitats something that is not zero, zero, zero; something at some point will have to start recapitulating so that it has made so much candy and dish and, on the other hand, it is not working. In the same way, on the subject of environmental taxes. We have already raised many times the possibility of re-discussing the margins that exist. All the margins are narrow, I recognize it, but all the margins are necessary and essential, and they are good; we cannot afford to say: "As it is little, the chocolate of tears, let us not face it. And another thing: the Public Transport Finance Act; it has provided for an opportunity to establish tax financing mechanisms, and it is green, undeveloped. And from this point of view, we plant it. On tax management, we would ask him: does this mean that the communication media say that you, the people of your team, the former government has been so far away from the speeches of the creation of a tax agency that it has forgotten to organize the while, is that right? Why, if so, would it be a certain responsibility: what to think about doing, you, to end the drills? You and I know that the Catalan tax agency is clearly better, with Andalusian farms and extremes – remember, don't you? – and not just by Spanish responsibility, and that, even though it is not the key to the tax fraud issue, can play an important role from this point of view. Here, in this country, the joint tax consortia foreshadowed by the Catalonian State of Autonomy have given up leaving, but more so, with so many speeches it has forgotten that the tax agency works well, the Catalan one. Clearly, it's what they have, the speeches. When you make speeches, you don't have to do politics. And that's a drama we've had with this government's policy. From this point of view and in relation to expenditure, we need these assumptions to open a stage, to place it with a possibly eight-year horizon, and we are prepared to discuss it, to establish the need for a social reversal only; we need a pact of this chamber, because it places social expenditure at the time of the European Union media, whatever the state in which we are advancing our condition of being propitious, independent, confederal, whatever it is; we need to place it. In this matter of expenditure, do you think once and for all to reformulate the issue of repayment of dependency ending with the situation of expropriation practically of some pensions? It's not a question of midjana. It's been a while... that's the world's trap! Clearly, 1 like I don't know how much the user pays... No; the problem is that they pay for those who have six-hundred euros of pension and have an accumulated piss, only. Clearly, because, for one thing, these people get their own thoughts, and practically make them their usual habitation, which is the only one they have, and the others do not pay inheritance taxes, or pay little; it is a deeply unfair tax concept, of the same. Councilwoman Borràs ran away from school today. Let's see if you... ask them. And besides, the pilot threw it at you. Think of it once and for all applying the limit of the soul to the high charges that was agreed to Law 2/2014? Of course, you have an interest, because he agreed to it, and swallowed things to change it; the one who swallowed already has, and the one who was promised we don't have. Then, from this point of view, the same: do you intend to re-discuss one to one of the expense parties or will we continue to have the institutional advertising expense that we all know...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.208.0	Mr. Coscubila...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.209.0	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.210.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.211.0	What's all it takes... what's all it takes for covert grants? Look at what I'm going to ask him, and that's the last thing I ask him. Do you intend to continue to maintain subsidies that only serve to feed the media courtesans of the regime or, even if there is little, can this be transferred to dependency benefits? It's over, Mr. Counselor. I hope I've offered you the fifth opportunity to respond. And tell him the next...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.212.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.213.0	Much worse than not having assumptions is having assumptions with old policies... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.214.0	The Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.215.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Members. I'm beginning to apologize for the constipation and cough, I hope you don't stop me from answering the many questions you've asked. Secondly, thank him for all his intervention and thank him for his willingness to talk about the themes he has put on the table. Third, I understand, as a certain recognition, in this sense, of the possibility of talking about things and reaching agreements, that you have positively valued the meeting on the debt that was made to the council, etc. And I understand that this is a positive value that is also in other groups. Our job is precisely a job done from the will of this hyperrealism. I don't know if the word hyper had any pejorative connotations or not, but... [[Pause.]] Okay. So, then, we share it. Therefore, from hyperrealism, from the realism of the ciphers, from the realism of what we have at the front. I begin by challenging some of the questions that you have raised. He asked about the state of the tax agency and the possibility of the consortium, etc. First of all, this has not only been a question of whether decisions taken by the Government of Catalonia, the consortium or the non-consortia should be disregarded. Second, over the tax agency, there is a recurved amplification in the autonomic sphere. I seem to have already explained this on some other occasion, but as you ask, I'll go back to explaining it, and I'll give you some example. One example is that no tax has ever been paid, and that the liquidations took place through the offices of the property's registrars, at a cost that last year was around 24 or 25 million euros. I give another example: there has never been a charge executed on a tax, but this has been delegated to the Ministry of Finance, to the Ministry of Mr Montoro. The year passed, or almost every year, for a value of about 10_million euros. It is clear that there is an autonomous recourse – an autonomous recourse – that other sub-state administrations in the Spanish State have resorted much more, let us say; it is evidence. And that, therefore, it seems to me that we will also find here, in you and the group that represents, therefore, the support to develop this strictly autonomous recourse, without any other considerations, which, from our point of view, is also essential for doing all the rest of the things that we want to do. I'm trying to answer some of the other questions you raised. You raised the possibility of some kind of take-off over the debt and recognized that this is not something that lies solely with this government or this Parliament. I... and I agree, with you, that is, there are many questions that go beyond the realm of sovereignty of this Parliament at these times, many. And when we follow a state, when we follow a republic, there will be many questions that will continue to go beyond the realm of narrow states, because there are many questions that go beyond the realm of the statality of any European state. The example you set is not a good example. Therefore, there are questions that we can come up with, from an ideological point of view, that we can raise from a point of view of a theoretical possibility, but you understand that you recognize that you are out of the grasp of the possibility of management that at these times correspond. This is not to say that, perhaps, some day – and perhaps one day it won't be long – a great international agreement will be warmed up, a great agreement of many public administrations, of many states, around this issue. Because it is obvious that the public deficit cylinder, the debt cylinder, the money offer cylinder has dimensions never seen. And that's not an exaggeration. It is a question that we have already referred to on other occasions and that seems to me to be an opportunity never to lose the opportunity of referring to it, because it is an evidence: the money offer bottle, at these times, 80,000_million euros each month we put on the market by the European Central Bank, or the 85 000_millions that the North American Federal Reserve has put on the market for years each month, so it is obvious that it is a good without precedent. This feeds a giant public debt situation. And it is obvious, too, that there is a contradiction here that is difficult to manage, very difficult to manage, which is: if the majority of Western states, and I will not enter another time into a discussion with you about the concept of westernity, or not, but if the majority of Western economies are, at these times, resorting to debt, it is obvious that any settlement around the non-payment of the debt, has little future, because it is very difficult for the creditor and continues to give credition if simultaneously announced that you will not pay the credit you give. Therefore, here too, the limitations seem to me to be obvious, and it does not seem that our will, as I understand you recognize, is to study the management of the debt, is to study it from all possibilities; of course, perfectly. Later, you raised some questions around the presuppositionary lines. You say I never answer it. I will answer him again, what happens to you, then, is free to say: « He did not answer me either. But I have always done so, except the day you asked me twenty-four questions in a minute, more or less, it seems to me to remember, and I hope I do not exaggerate, and therefore I said to him, "Listen, I will not be able to answer it now, in a minute more! You were asking some questions around..., or asking me about the general lines of the very premise or the presuppositional proposal that the government is working on, that will lead to this chamber, probably to the end of May, or almost certainly to the end of May, and that will end by voting and, if Parliament considers it opportune, approved in July. We have always explained – and I have always explained it, at least I have this conviction – that the lines of assumption will be maintained, roughly, that there have been so far, with some additons, some of them important – the addition of the shoc plan, commitments acquired in the parliamentary plenary, uniquely in the extraordinary plenary that we have made on the poor – that part of all this is possible thanks to the general reduction that is produced in the payment of interests, not by decisions of the State Administration, which are precisely contrary, but simply because the renewal of many of the beliefs that are in force, therefore, is a fan of interest every time lower, the fruit of this gift of money, today, today? , which has some positive consequences, which is that it releases a part of the presuppositional availability to deal with social parties. You were talking to me about the possibility of establishing a social spending soil. Pleased to consider it, study it with you, talk about it, look for mechanisms, etc. In this sense, too, a proposal that we have already made, which we have already explained, is that of shielding social parties, in the sense that there are parties that have been determined to have or to have a social objective, that in some cases, for various reasons, some of them did not end up applying in their totality in their intended purpose and that afterwards there is no guarantee that they are continuing to dedicate or that they are dedicated, these assumptions, in the strictly social sphere. In this sense, we have expressed our commitment, our willingness to shield these social parties. You, then, refer to the possibility of reconsidering the IRPF's autonomous trams. Let's talk, let's study it, let's look at it, you know, too, that here, as you recognize, the limits are very thin, they're very narrow, they're very hard to take advantage of. But, we, delighted to study this possibility. You refer, too, to other tax figures: taxation of estates, taxation of assets, etc. Here, our response continues to feel the same as we have always given in this and in other areas, also when you refer to environmental taxes; and it is our willingness and willingness, our willingness to study all the possibilities that may arise, knowing that the margins are narrow and knowing that no of these possibilities in itself is good or bad, but in any case it will be good or bad depending on what the general context is. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I've run out of time, I think I've answered many of the things you asked me. In any case, now you have five minutes more, and then there is an intervention from another group that will go, more or less, on the same subject and I hope to have occasion, between the answer that I will make to you in a few minutes, five minutes from now, and the answer of the own group, therefore, to deal with it in more detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.216.0	There's a word from Mr. Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.217.0	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Little by little, like dentists pulling complaints, we're going to betray something. I'm very afraid, at any rate, that your problem with answering the questions that we ask you is not just a matter of time, it's that some questions are uncomfortable and, for many times that we do, you won't answer them; for example, the inheritance tax. I'm going back to planting. I said if he forgot them. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, of successions, not the IRPF's autonomous tram. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right... - All right. You understand very well, Mr. Vice President, our willingness to talk about it, as it could not be otherwise, this is the home of the dialog and, therefore, it is so. Now, from the clarity, you can't go on with this absolutely awkward layout. Because I..., who fully agree with the presupposition that you do, this is absolutely incompatible with continuing to tell the people that this is a divisive legislature, that this is the last autonomic assumption and that, from what I don't know when, it turns out that things will change radically. You, one of two, or cheat on one another or cheat on the other. And I'm very afraid they want to make an illusionism, in the way: "I say one thing in the mornings and another thing in the afternoons, and every one listens to what he wants. And so everyone's happy. And that's what we can't go on doing, because then it means that we're deceiving citizenship around such an important issue as the presuppositional and fiscal issue. Yes, yes..., I value the hyperrealism of your team that day, but, I say again, you have very little to see with what you continue with. About the tax agency. It's what serves us as an example. If I insist, if we, our group, insist that there is no worse thing to be doing all day making slow speeches, that they have nothing to do with reality, it is because the consequences are those that you describe to us. And it's that Catalonia has passed..., the government, forgive me, the Catalan governments, the last Catalan government has passed I don't know how long talking about how many breaks with the Spanish state, and it turns out that it's the most difficult time to get its own tax agency to go. And you recognized it. Because, in the background, the speeches neutralize, paralyze, are narcotizers of politics, especially when they have nothing to do with the politics that is proposed. Miri, in relation to the public debt, public deficit and autonomous financing, I have made a settlement for it. It's not that you and I agree intellectually. This is not an anarcho-union tertulia, I mean it's a different thing, it's a parliament, and, if we agree, it has to be expressed somehow. I am telling you that we are starting, from Catalonia, modestly, from our limitations, to establish a clear front to be a part of these peripheral countries of Europe – states, nations, whatever it is – that they are clearly not able to get out and solve the problems of our people if we do not carry the policies of false estabilité of the European Union and the Spanish Stabilisation Act. I don't think his problem is sobriety. His problem is that you are the vice president of a government that is presided over by a president who is said to be Puigdemont, and who has the Mr. But who was part of a government that applauded these policies and voted for them. And, therefore, if they want to reject them and fight them, they will have to say that. I think that's the problem. And it's that every time more, between what you say and what you do, whatever looks like reality is pure coincidence. And that's the background problem. That's why I've talked to you before about a strabic policy, in this sense. And it is tremendously important, in these questions, that you settle down. From this perspective, we insist very much, we are willing to talk about it – we are willing to talk about it. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] But I've fixed you to what point it's incongruous what you say as government. This is a brief legislature, divided by months. In the best of cases it is possible to make two assumptions. The first is the first month of the first year, and it is not clear whether it can be approved or not. Don't you know these speeches don't fit? There's something in your speech that doesn't fit, which is why I'm telling you that you have to make it clear: either the hypersurrealism of statements that you don't carry, and they just cover up the pragmatism that you see, or the hyperrealism of dealing with these things. Clearly there is an intermediate point: realism with the will to change reality. But to change reality, what it's not possible to do is deny it. And that's what I think you're doing permanently. You have our cooperation, but please clarify what you want to do, and above all that the speech was accompanied by facts. Between saying and doing. I know you have a Vatican vocation and you must have understood it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.218.0	I've got the vice president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.219.0	Thank you, President. Let's start at the end. More than a Vatican vocation, in any case I must have a certain work experience in the Vatican. But I don't know if it's the same thing. You have all my sympathy. But I let you set an example, huh? You say to me: "You have recognized... And, as the verb "recognize" always has the connotation that it means that before you wanted to store it, it seems that I wanted to store it... King of the King. Listen, I didn't recognize the king. What I've done is explain it all the time. You asked me a question about the tax agency and I explained it. I didn't recognize him, I explained it. And I explained it with the same transparency that we always explain everything – everything. For that matter, I'd do it. You're serving the verb that you think is opportune. I would use this verb to recognize and replace it to explain. So, let me explain to you some more examples, and this morning, in part, we also referred to a question of control to the government, but it seems to me that it is opportune to remember it here, let's say it. Last year, the Government of Catalonia was attributed a deficit of 2.7, of which 0.75 points are one-off. That is to say, they are expenses that do not correspond to 2015, that are not strictly public, but are questions of public private investments, that do not correspond, I repeat, to 2015 and that in change the ministry decides to attribute to 2015. If we removed these 0.75 points, we would be left with 1.95 points of deficit deviation. This would only be covered – only – by the Law of Presuppositional Enabling. Only that applied. If this law, which you criticise – and I also criticized, so that we also agree – had been strictly applied, as the law says, it would have represented 1.60 points, and therefore would have practically covered the entire deficit of the past year. There would be no deviation. Or in any case there would be a deviation applied to other social, economic development, etc. parties. Or I give him another example: this would have been covered further if there had not been an institutional blockage of decisions taken by this chamber, and in some cases even all Spanish courts, such as the third additional provision, the tax on bank deposits... If that had been respected, as the State's organic laws say and as the decisions of this Parliament say, there would have been no presuppositional deviation. I'll give you another example, that's why. Because this is realism, which you're complaining about, okay? Realism that you're complaining about. If the State, which it assumes..., the central government... make one morning. I don't know if I have time to do it or not, but I'm trying to force time. You tell me: "This morning you have made a recognition of the difficulties of managing that Mr. Montoro has. And I can get him back to doing it now without a problem. Mr. Montoro, and anyone who is in his place, has objectively some real difficulties. And I've given an example of that, and it's that the cost of social security, pensions and housing subsidies, has passed in the last seven years, or in the last eight years, from 135,000 to 185,000_million. It's an objective difficulty: 50,000 million more. And this will happen to everyone– to everyone. What's the Minister of Hysenda, or Economy and History, who's going to find with this reality, okay? Now, a time has come to recognize this – because there is no problem in this case to recognize it, to explain it, to say it, because it seems to me that my obligation is to explain it to me as clearly as possible – the public expenditure that the Spanish Government supports is 57_per_cent, and is reserved more than 80_per_cent of the disability relief, and the year it sees, 100_per_cent. The set of public spending that supports autonomous communities is between 33 and 35_per_cent, and they have always had an assigned deficit relief of less than 20_per_cent, and the year you see, of 0_per_cent. So it's obvious that this is a brutal limitation. And you say, "We agree, you and I. I, pleased to agree with you, and with your group, and with other groups in this Parliament that surely represent a very large majority of this Parliament. Now, once we agree, we will not alter a reality that, in the autonomic mark, does not depend on the decisions taken by this Parliament. Because, in decisions, this Parliament has taken many, for the benefit of the citizens, and unfortunately after that they could not apply. So, listen, let's talk about it, let's work it, let's study it together, with all the good predisposition on the part of the government and on the part of this vice president and councillor of Economy and History, of course, with all the will, and, listen, we do everything we can, and we do everything we can to approve good assumptions, to approve the best possible assumptions, we do everything we can, and, listen, if in the end we don't get out of it, so we manage the reality that we have in front of us also with the best capacity we have.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.220.0	The sixth item on the agenda is the question to the Government about the draft laws on assumptions and fiscal and financial measures. [[Inquiries to the Government on draft laws on assumptions and fiscal and financial measures]] [[300-00027/11]] Presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the word Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.221.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, members of the government, deputies, deputies, well, I'll try not to climb a lot of things that have probably already been insisted on, in any case, and focus more on some that I think may be given more recourse. Although it seemed to be done expressly, we did not agree to make the inquiry about the same. One thing he said was that the benefit is already, that it will be the guiding thread of my intervention: one of our objectives is to know whether the presupposition 2016 to be presented in this Parliament will be continuous or changeable. You have told us "continuously with some tweaks. We think that there is a need for change, above all because we see that the assumptions and public policies of the European Union, the Spanish State, also of the Generality, which all coincided with the way we faced the crisis, have been detrimental to the economic promotion, and to the occupation, and to the support of public services, and to, of course, the social cohesion of our country; social..., which is also territorial, of our home. Critics with the government, we are. We've said that over the past few years, and we see... and so there's a certain continuity. New government, but for now we don't see any significant changes. And so, as we see changes, as we see a new government with new priorities, they learn of mistakes, because we have more information now than we had at the beginning of the crisis, we would be more open to talk about it, to talk about it, to have the benefit of the doubt. But obviously, the moment we have to ask him is when the accounts will arrive. As I said, we believe that it is necessary... As I said, there are months going by, there are pending investments, there are urgent needs, there are resolutions of this Parliament that have been approved, that there are many, many needy... We have a diverse Parliament, a diverse country, and therefore, speaking of mandates, we also have many mandates that, even the elections, must be brought to this Parliament. They voted, approved, and included 'lsal pressupost 2016. We also have to ask you: do you think you can approve the accounts? Do you think he'll have enough parliamentary support? And not because we haven't given him a hand and we can't match some things. But we do believe that the 5,000_million euros of retails, of adjustments, tell us how they are, that we have spent since 2010, above all 1,000_million euros in education, 1,500 dollars in sanitation..., so, man, we believe that 2016, 17, 18, we need to scale up to recover the retails of health, education, social services, the most important. And that's what we think we need a consensus on. In the same way that we also rejoice at the work session that took place in the department to assess the debt. Because 72,000_million euros of debt is not paid today tomorrow. Neither you with the 2016 budget, nor the 17, nor the 18, nor the 19, but our children, our grandchildren and the grandchildren of our grandchildren..., and knowing how many more years we will take to pay this debt, which is unsustainable with the ability to finance or with the budget structure that Parliament has at this time. And so we all know: it's impossible to return the debt if we don't change. And that's why we, above all, wanted to focus our intervention on the following: has there been, in the 2016 budget, all the circumstances, empathizing with the government and with the economic and political difficulties, many times, that are also there? Has he been capable of maneuvering? Have you been able to improve tickets? We think so. Even with the difficulties, we think so. Some have already said: successions. As the panorama is, listen, the fiscal dumping that there is at these times in Spain, for example on the issue of successions, does not help. But we do propose to go back to the 2010 reform. Because we've already done one, reform, in this sense. So, who has the most to pay. And what we can't do is lower taxes or keep some tax cuts when we make 1,500_million euros of retail sales in health. Negotiations with the State? Home, it was about time– it was about time–, huh? , that we give an example that, regardless of the political priorities we each have, so, listen, institutions speak, and demand, and demand loyalty. And there was no joy, many times. That's right. And, said that, priority number u: finance basic services. And this is where we are today... There's that phrase that says, "Res change, but if you change everything, don't you? We, of course, have also made some mistake, which is that constitutional reform of armoring the debt. No, no, the most important thing is to shield the social parties, and the premises we had at the beginning of the crisis are not the ones we can apply right now. And, therefore, we diem: "We have an agreement to try to shield and recover the parties. The expense per capita, greetings, education, social services, co-payments, and all these things we've said. And we'll be right next to you. Obviously, that's impossible. 0.3_percent deficit. It's impossible – it's impossible. So, what we do, more than that, is... it turns out that we have to pay the debt and there has to be zero deficit at the worst time in the economy, at a time when there are more economic difficulties. What are we gonna do? And when there is economic goodness, will we then make the deficit more flexible? It's the contrast. Therefore, flexibility now, balanced distribution of the deficit. Because it's common sense. And we'll be here with you. Now, of course, we, too, like we also sometimes point to the moon, and that's also a lot of Catalans, huh? But we also sometimes neglect to settle concrete issues... We see the President of the Valencian Community as saying: "We want a release from the FLA proportional to the fiscal deficit that our autonomous community has had. Have we asked for this? We want a release from the FLA, too, because there has been a lack of funding; we want a new fiscal pact, or a new financing plan. And then you'll want to go further, still. So vagina more luny. But for now we're exploring, we're exploiting, we're negotiating, and we're tightening up with the skills we have. No one will deny that this, that these phrases we make, that it's very rhetorical..., and that I think it does a weak favor also to the independent message to say that the lists of hope when we are independent..., that the time when we are independent..., we resolve, that corruption when we are independent... See, an autonomous community with corruption is an independent country with corruption; a detailed education..., it's a country with retail education; co-coupling in an autonomous community will obviously be the priority of an independent country. So, what do I mean by that? That we don't wait to do the dues that I can pass two years from now. Of the debt, and I say it now too..., sometimes it is said, too: "Ah! , the debt... : 23,000_million debt when we ruled together, huh? , five years those, 23,000_million in seven years; 37,000_million from Convergence, and a stage that also ruled with you. With the difference that is a very important reversal, in the time of the tripartite, and now there is no reversal. Part is reversal, but above all it is to generate deficit, because they do not write accounts. Therefore, 1,900_million euros a year in interests. Here there is a lot of recourse: that if we are left with 0_percent of the interests of the FLA, of this lot we stop paying them; that if we pay the outstanding debts, many, we will have much more money released also so that we have to recover these important parties; that if we make a common front with the autonomous communities that claim things similar to ours, so, also, obviously, we can get more resources; that if we make the modification of estates, also part, as well as the taxes that the Generality enters, the transfers, are already very high respect to most of the autonomous communities. Let us know, too, therefore; nor is it a matter of..., the little tax capacity we have to exploit more of the account, but I think we have to say that there will be no solution if it is not negotiated. New funding; institutional loyalty, obviously; fraud, evasion and tax – tax evasion –, huh? , the agency, the tax consortia. Why don't we make a tax consort? So they take one part, we take another part, and in the end nobody is responsible for fighting tax evasion or tax evasion. These days that Panama's papers have come out... Certainly – I am sorry – what does a Generality office do in Panama? I agree with the generality's external action, Panama, I say, I don't know, it supports a whole area, I understand, geographic, but does it have to be there? It's there... sometimes we're also a little curious about these issues. And some fears that we haven't done well either. How do we increase the trust costs by an 11_per_cent, with what they're doing? How come we haven't completed the government's high-level deficit relief? These are fears that they are the chocolate of crying surely, but they are very and very important fears, so as to set an example, huh? That there is no money and that it is doing things well, and that it is complete the resolutions and the laws that are approved. As well – important and hyperrealism theme – government treasuries: do we have guaranteed payments to providers, to the joint? Because this institutional loyalty to Madrid..., we could also talk a lot about institutional loyalty to the congregations. With what? Do we have a guarantee? Are we guaranteed the treasure, with suppliers, gatherings and public workers? So... there's 20 seconds left; then we'll also have a chance to talk a little more. Yes, I would like you to have one thing, and to see if we agree with the analysis of which situation is the situation: more tickets, priority number 1; details, refocusing detail and spending policy, we believe it is also very important; 3, renegotiate debt and, obviously, a release, as well as all its interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.222.0	Reply by the Vice President and Counsellor of Economy and History, Mr Oriol Junqueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.223.0	Well, another time, good afternoon to everyone. Also begin to enlarge the whole of the intervention and the willingness to talk about concrete questions, concrete objects around the floor of the deficit, etc. Certainly, if I am not misinformed – and if I am misinformed I hope that someone of you corrects me; if it can be kindly, better – the Supreme Court has just annulled the distribution of the deficit relief decided for the Spanish Government, corresponding to the year 2013. Listen, obviously there's a land on which we can settle. Sure. If you agree with the Supreme Court, if you agree with the Airef, the Independent Authority of Fiscal Responsibility; you remind the Spanish Government – yesterday itself – that in the distribution of the Deficit Base was very bad on the part of the Spanish Government and that responsibility for the diversion of the Deficit Base is fundamental, extra-majority, responsibility of the Spanish Government, and not of the autonomous communities. Fixed if there is land to explore, possible agreements in this line that you say, that even the president of the Autonomous Community of Castile and León has accused the Minister of Hisenda of the Spanish Government of institutional disloyalty in the distribution of the floor of deficiency, has denounced that it is a model of autonomous financing absolutely failed, because it does not recognize to the autonomous communities the parties necessary to deal with the expenses of health, education and social policies. Yes, of course, there are many elements in which we can agree. Actually, we've been explaining it for years and years; all these examples we've explained to you in this room a lot of times. They've heard me say it many times in the last few years, even since I'm a congressman. And, before I said it, my company explained it wrong and right, also in this room; certainly, quite often, without such a good predisposition as it seems to have been today. Now, that doesn't get you another question that's phoneous, that in the end... you recognized that perhaps your party was wrong at the time of shielding in the Spanish Constitution the payment of the debt before the social parties. I think so, they're wrong. But, in any case, what is obvious – what is obvious – is that either we have the tools that allow us to decide on our future and that allow us to decide on our fiscal effort, or always – always, always – we will be in the hands of decisions that can become as arbitrary as the Spanish Government has taken in the past few years. Certainly, as arbitrary as all the Spanish governments have always taken. In the end, therefore, the question of realism is a question that I appreciate very much and appreciate very much your calls to realism, that I understand that I share and understand that I share a good part of the proposals and the demands that you are putting forward. Now, it seems to me that the only way to shield them is that these are actually decisions that can be taken by this chamber in representation of the people of Catalonia and that the decisions that take this chamber cannot be dropped by a third chamber that follows the Constitutional Court or cannot be dropped by arbitrary decisions that take a government, even though they fall a few years later. Therefore, precisely, we are still realists and equipping this Parliament and equipping these institutions with the characteristics and skills of a particular state, because, if not, we would constantly be in the hands of this arbitrariness. You said to me: "Do we guarantee the treasury? The answer is: obviously – obviously. While 95_percent of the taxes that this economy pays, that it pays this company, I manage them and I cover them the Spanish government, so we won't practically guarantee king. And the proof is that we are constantly reminding him of the obligations he himself recognizes to have: the liquidation of the beast of the 14th; but it would be extendable to the liquidation of the beast of the 15th, and it would be perfectly extendable to the liquidation of the beast of the 16th. Systemically they're calculated at low, systemically. And we're talking about 1,600_million less correspondents in 2014, we're talking about 1,200_million less correspondents in the year 2015 and probably... this will just have to be seen around this year, but they'll be in the same order of magnitude. Count this difference, only from the liquidation of the beast! And here we're not talking about the deficit relief, which is 1,600_million less correspondents to this year, which is the difference between the 0.3 that the Ministry of History decides and what the Law of Presuppositional Stability, which should be 1.07, says. They're doing the summaries. And that doesn't take into account all the decisions that this chamber has taken around the dispositions..., or even all the Spanish courts, around the third additional disposition, as the example that it set a while ago, that we would be talking about another gypsum equivalent to what we just said. They're doing the summaries. And after you do that summary ask 'is this equivalent or not equivalent to the details you make reference to or... In the end, realism brings us to the next consideration: does the Catalan economy grow? The answer is yes, and it grows a lot. In concrete terms, a 3.4_per_cent the year passed; the last annual corresponding in the last quarter of 2015, a 3.9_per_cent. Is the fiscal effort made by businesses and citizens of this growing economy a fiscal effort, in relative terms, very important? We can argue if it could be a little more important in not knowing which tram I don't know what to impose. Discuss it. But is it very important? Is it over the middle globally? Clearly, yes. So, as it's possible that an economy that grows more than the medium, which is the first GDP per capita, which is the most fiscal effort it does... It's to say, if the taxable base is the largest, it's the most growing, and the tax burden on this tax base is, in relative terms, the highest of the medium, you recognize that the problem is how it distributes all this tax effort. And some responsibility to have who manages the 95_per_cent of this tax effort. Therefore, I accept their proposals to study, to look at, to analyze it, as we have done in the field of debt and we must follow it; the same. I propose to work in the tax field, in the... exactly the same. And, listen, compare what consequences have a certain drop in certain IRPF trams – said Mr. Coscubiela – or a certain increase. And see if they're making up, if they're not making up, what consequences do you have... And be aware of who we are. There are no decisions that we can take in the margins of the economic environment and the economic context in which we are. They can't do it. Just as we cannot grow the debt indefinitely... and that the deficit is not an economic dimension without future consequences. It's not. And still less... – and I like to explain it to myself and, therefore, I take advantage of the fact that I have a minute and forty-eight to explain it again – and less in a context of demographic contraction. Because in the end we are passing on a debt that generates a very large generation and that will probably have to pay generations that will be much smaller, of numbers, and that, therefore, the cost per capita that will face this debt will be much higher. Therefore, as all these are considerations that are not independent, that are not neutral, that cannot be taken away from the context in which we are, from the joint fiscal effort that we demand of our citizens or that they are required of our fellow citizens, so, listen, let us analyze it. And from this joint visit we try to find the maximum possible consensus. And if we can get these consensuses to go further beyond this legislature, better; much better. For our part, and for my part in particular, as you can imagine, as more consensus around this issue, better. And it's certainly with groups like the ones that just spoke to today, this late, with whom, listen, I feel closer to the time to try to reach agreements on a long run. So let's study it. We've got five more minutes each of us to finish it off, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.224.0	Mr Ordeig has the word Óscar Óscar Óscar Óscar Ódeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.225.0	Counselor, I did not get back to the issue of successions or new financing, new financing system; whether or not it was possible to address the issues. I think it's an important moment. It is that for the first time there has been an increase in GDP; therefore, it has now been able to negotiate. Sometimes, with some true myths, he builds up some statement that maybe he's not quite sure. The FLA, in the end, the State also has to be indebted to give us FLA to the communities. So, to say that we grow and generate less debt than that of the State. Home, the State is also carrying a share of the debt of..., to help the autonomous communities. That we have so much more capacity to enter and ask for it on our own. The FLA, by itself, is a good tool. Another thing is why we don't have enough money. But it's a good tool, especially when they leave them to zero_per_cent of interest. I wanted to ask him something, too. First, if I could appreciate the set-up plan they sent to the Ministry of Heritage, why did they return it? What's going on, these tweaks, these many tweaks that have to be done, what's happened? I think he's wrong. Sending him is fine, I can send him, but I think he's wrong not to open up any more rounds of contacts with political spokespersons, so he can comment in time, huh? , that everyone has all the information, as we have done with the debt, as we are starting to do with the debt, so precisely to talk about which parameters are the parameters in which we move. Where is it, where hasn't it been? So let's see if we can comment. And then I'd also like to say if you agree with this statement that without assumptions there is no legislature, that made an Arthur But, expressive, that says: "Without assumptions, there is no legislature. Home, it may be, it may seem, I feel like a starter of the legislature and I feel such a short legislature, of a year and a half, so, yes, and there's no presupposition..., I don't know if you've heard much about going on with the legislature. So, to say, man, when I asked him to open a round of contact with the groups, knowing that, moreover, there are important differences and that the UPC often has things that do not coincide with you, so, man, why not work? Now, of course, if it takes too long to open, if the year you see us already goes to elections, there won't be much to talk about here. So, does it do variable geometry? You do variable geometry, but you don't do it between Montoro and the CUP; you do it between the CUP and the rest of parliamentary groups or between all of them, huh? Because I think in the end it's what, looking at the situation we see, is the most common feeling. I think we agree with the diagnosis, that's overwhelming. There is only one thing, which we say: "We have a series of problems, let's fix them one by one, let's go; you say: "We have a series of problems, let's not go, we don't want to know anything about it. Home, try to fix it – try to fix it – until we can. And the situation is very different from the absolute majority of the PP, of which there is now, and so on, with the government working. And in the end, it's a matter of money? Because it's all settled... this is where he talked... all about money. Is the whole Catalonia-Spain problem a money problem? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The problem... no... well, they're rhetorical questions that I leave behind and everyone will say... obviously it's a matter of money, and obviously whether Catalonia is independent or not independent, there must be solidarity with the peoples of our circle. Yeah? So, in the end, we're talking about saying, "Listen, maybe we'll pay a little bit, and maybe this new one..., we need to make a new deal so that it's more proportional, and that's not mortgaged on us. Okay. Moreover, there must be respect for culture, language and respect for the nation. So, I'm sure we'll figure it out. Therefore, sometimes we also make a fallacy, which is that we come to take conclusions and up a moment that we skip, and say, "Well, look, we really don't have to go, because there's nothing to do. Home, no; if there are some real problems and a lot of diagnoses, why don't we fix them? Therefore, you said: "Continue, with treasuries. I return..., to say: "We want changes, and in the measure that you make changes to the assumption will be the measure in which you will have our confidence and our hand to try to work together. We don't want..., it's not that we want to continue with some touchdowns, but we want a lot of touchdowns or a substantial change and little continuity – little continuity. Because what we've done so far has not gone well, and the new parliamentary distribution I think also requires a series of changes. Last but not least... that I've neglected before, the expense, you announced an efficiency plan at the expense, I think I remember. We also defended it a long time ago: the modernization of the Administration. Look if there's work to do and we never talk about it! We always talk about what they do in Madrid... Home, we try to give explanations and become aware of the attributions and responsibilities we have with the Government, like the country, what is the situation and the resources we have, and do it as best we can. Good management, good public policies, and then, that we can look at the Madrid companies, the company of the assemblies and say: "We, like the Government, are doing the dues; like the Parliament we are doing the dues. And then we can also demand that others do it, that they be loyal, that they be productive, and that they think of all the citizens. Thank you, yes, all of you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.226.0	The words of the vice president, Mr. Oriol Junqueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.227.0	Good afternoon. Adverbs are always misinterpreted. Then you say to me: "I want assumptions with little continuity. So let me just say this: "Jo, with less continuity. And you want some assumptions with a lot of changes; so, me, with a lot of changes and a little more. The question is: do we have the resources at these times to do all this? Yes or no? Do we have them, to make them? So, let's make even more changes. Don't they have it? So, we'll make it a little less. Is there any real possibility of changing things between now and the end of May, when they will be approved in the Government, and when they will be brought, the June, to this Parliament, and they will vote in this Parliament in July? So, there are no margins, let's just say. If you take into account that 88_percent of the assumption is finalistic and that, therefore, the available part is a much smaller part of the assumption..., listen, you will see many changes– many – in the proposal that we will bring; at last, I will say that you will see many. Now, of course, adverbs are misinterpreted. But..., and in any case, help us, there, all folds, to make the best possible assumptions, knowing that these limitations, much as you seem to be able to change in the next month, so, hardly change in the next month – hard. If it's not that you have a... I don't know, you know something that I don't know and the government doesn't know right now. So, listen, do you see a lot of changes in assumptions? A lot. And if you like the changes very much, aim to approve these assumptions, and will be the protagonist of the many changes that will have them. Our will – our will – is to prioritise an agreement with the CUP, obviously, because we believe that there is a majority in Parliament and we want to reach an agreement, first and foremost, with this parliamentary group. And, therefore, we will make the efforts we can to reach an agreement. I understand that it is not easy to reach an agreement for all the conditions that we have explained a while ago and that we have explained other times; therefore, it is certainly not easy. Now, shall we try? Yeah. In this agreement, would we be pleased that there are many more groups and how much better? And as long as we like, there's as much better! And, therefore, our willingness to study these proposals to which you refer? Yeah. On the subject of successions, you say: "He did not answer me. I have replied: "It will depend on the global context, on the fiscal pressure we have at this time. Listen, let's look at it: we sit down, we look at it, what consequences it has, what can be obtained from more, less, etcetera. The same as on the IRPF trams, I've already answered that. Now, based on the global context. There is no fiscal decision that is good or bad for her: they are good or bad depending on what the overall context of taxation is. And the marginal consequences that any subsequent fiscal decision has are related to how many times you've served it, how intensely you've served it, and what is the overall fiscal context that exists. So, listen, let's just sit here and talk about it and value it. I, listen, maybe we'll come to an agreement, and, and we'll come to an agreement, perfect. Are there any legislatures where there are prorogation assumptions? Yes..., yes, of course..., many, yes. Are there any legislatures in which there is no extension of presuppositions, but that we are approved of presuppositions? Yes... - Yes, yes. There have been... listen, I don't want to set historical examples, but... there have been times when it's been extended and it's been extended a lot. It's here. What's our preference? Approve assumptions. Why? Because we are convinced – and it seems to me that in this we will all agree without exception – that it gives more room for manoeuvre to make some of these many changes that you ask for and that we want to make. So, obviously, it's better to approve them than not approve them. Does that mean that if you don't approve, there's nothing you can do? No, you don't mean that. I mean, if they don't come through, it's harder to do according to what. And maybe there are some that you can't do, because the margins are much narrower; how narrow they are, as you also recognize. So, listen, willing to negotiate? All of it. And with the utmost respect possible for all the groups and for the decisions they make each of the groups and the sovereignty of each of the groups in this chamber. I'd just miss it! All the respect, and recognition on my part, too – and with that I would like to finish, and I would not want to be too insistent – that, listen, the context is difficult for almost everyone, huh? And, therefore, when you assume the responsibility of the Government of the Spanish State together with I don't know who or with whom or with whom I don't know how many, who it is, the panorama won't be simple people, neither – neither. And they will find that someone will surely require them to retail 8,000 million more at public expense. And then you're going to have to come out here and say, "Well, I know I said that there were details in public spending and that now, perhaps, there are no more. Well, maybe you'll have to say it. You don't have the guarantee you won't have to say. And if you think tea, I respect it, that you think you do. The context will not be easy, governments that govern – governments the People's Party, the Socialist Party, the Socialist Party in combination with who it is –, surely not. I think this recognition we all have to do. And that... I think we all have an intellectual obligation to explain that the context is difficult for the European states, especially for the states that are located more far from the center of the system. Well, yes. And what, paradoxically, would it be easier for us to assume if we had full responsibility for our fiscal effort? I believe that the data that each time they explain shows it to be amplified – amplified, amplified. I, therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.228.0	Vice President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.229.0	So, so, you ask them that we all work together, and I'm sure they will.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.230.0	The next item is the question to the Government on the implementation of 3+2, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. [[Ask the Government about the 3+2 application]] [[300-00026/11]] There's a word from Mr. Albert Botran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.231.0	Well, thank you, President. Now three weeks ago we asked the advisor about the consequences of the 3+2 application in the Catalan university system. And we did it because of the concerns and demands of student movement, to which it is often difficult to make visible their struggles beyond university campuses and, in turn, they are claims that call for a great deal of complicity among students. More concretely, in the last few months they celebrated references about the paralysis of 3+2 to almost all the universities of the Catalan Countries. The participation exceeded the participation that he used to donate to the elections in the universities. And, besides, he did it with a pronouncement, so, flatly opposed to the change they want to introduce, more than 90 per cent of the participating students opposed it. In all cases, these references were celebrated on the initiative of unions and student platforms; however, in some cases in concrete terms, the reference was organized for the council of students of the respective universities, in the case of the University of Barcelona, the Pompeu Fabra or the University of Girona. When we talk about invisibility we refer to this: the fact that political authorities and universities can turn the scale to a mobilization of these characteristics and continue, without needing a dialog, the application of the new academic orders. That's why she went to school on March 3rd. This is a struggle for the right to higher, public and quality education, and it is based on the threats that Royal Decree 43/2015 can exert on this right through an encumbrance of access conditions. The encumbrance of higher education is a reality. It already happened with the Bolonya process, although it was said that it would not have these consequences and that it was also a struggle, for sure, that it ended its faculties and filled the streets in demand, but that, unfortunately, it was also given the skeleton from the vast majority of political representatives and communication media, and it was, as we say, silenced. In the previous plenary we have already discussed how the numbers have increased in the last few years, in the question addressed to him by the deputy Joan Giner, of Catalonia Yes that it is Pot, and that this increase is given, already, within a system that, comparatively, at European level is of the most cars. With data from the Observers of the University System at hand, from a study that he did on the 2013-2014 course comparing Catalonia and the Spanish State with thirty-eight states and regions of the conjunction of Europe, the panorama in which our university system is situated, as far as accessibility through the prices is concerned, is quite elusive. If we say so, compared to current amounts of euro, the lowest price of higher studies in Catalonia, is only exceeded by the United Kingdom and Ireland; it is, say, states, countries that all know that they are in the forefront of the application of neoliberal policies. This at absolute prices in euros. Like purchasing power, taking another point of view, Catalonia is the sixth country where the highest prices of graduate studies are more expensive. And let us say that the countries that we would have before are with the same natural, country or good of Eastern Europe, where the policies that have been applied since the 1990s have remained aggressive neoliberalism, or, well, another time, the countries of the United Kingdom or Ireland. That's what he's doing for a degree. Over master's price, Catalonia and the Spanish State are, among Europe, a singularity in the sense that they are of those states, of those countries in which master's price is substantially higher than the price of the degree. And there is a small group of countries that have a much higher price than the highest price in the rest of Europe, and this is the case in Catalonia. That is to say, there is a minimum price of mastery – here we are at 2,500 euros per course – and now, therefore, we can mention the countries that overcome us, which go ahead: Greece, Ireland, another time, and Xipre; it is to say, another time, those that have suffered the most disembodied neoliberalism. Finally, we talk about prices of degrees, we talk about prices of masters, we talk about scholarships. The higher the price, the lower the percentage of students paying them. This is the philosophy that prevails mostly in European university systems, with two clear exceptions: the Spanish State and Catalonia, and the United Kingdom. This study, from which we were provided with data, was completed in 2014. It would be well to know the current reality by developing a new report, as it is committed to doing the 225/X motion that was approved in July 2015 in this very same Ple, and then we can speak with more propriety, but we doubt that the introduction of the equity scholarships has corrected this reality very much. They note, therefore, that the demand to terminate the decree has gathered a broad support between the study; they note that on these changes it weighs the suspicion that they will serve for a new love of the studies as it passed with the Bolonya process; they note that these changes that will already be introduced on a system that, we have seen now, is more than the most cars in Europe; they note that we consider that this debate has transcended, must be removed from the faculties because it is of social transcendence, that is to say, the country that has higher education is linked, therefore, to the perspective of democratisation of knowledge and to the social ascendancy, does not affect only who is attending the study now, and they note that this country lives and moves that the concept of the society is also based on the assumption of the benefit of the university, which is also based on the assumption that it is based on the theory of the university. We will propose, as a starting point, not to apply Royal Decree 43/2015, and from this decree, that the three-year degrees should be created– and this is, let us say, the new one for which the 3+2 malfia student movement is not by the order of the studies, but by the consequences that it can have on the prize and on the access–, from this decree, deia, these three-year degrees should be created; since the university education of these three years will be, therefore, much less than before it was provided in the licensures, the majority of the students will be burdened to carry out the two years of mastery, these at a substantially higher rate than previously. Will this become a new social differentiation filter? And that is why we also ask the Government: it would not be hot, before any change is made in the order of university lessons, to ensure that degrees and masters are fully equated in terms of access conditions, that is, in prices, in taxes, in scholarships, in coefficients, in case, therefore, of public lessons? Wouldn't it be hot, too, to ensure that there are enough masters to absorb all the demand, is it to say, to ensure that no graduate is left without being able to do the master that enables him for his profession? It is what is known as enablers masters. And would it not, lastly, urge the Catalan public universities to create debate spaces about the consequences of the 3+2 application and the guarantees to prevent you from assuming a price burden? And to resume, also, the work in the framework of the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia in the commissions that it did at its time – yes –, therefore, guaranteeing that the voice of the students is represented there? These are the questions we address to the government in the matter of the university system.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.232.0	Business and Knowledge Advisor, Mr. Jordi Baiget, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.233.0	Thank you, Madam President. You said this, Mr. Member, in the setting and origin of this inquiry, so on March 16th, you answered a question that you asked on behalf of your group, and at the last plenary, we also answered an inquiry that was made by the Catalonian Group Yes, it is possible on – it was a broader issue than... but, in the end, they end up feeling the same – the effects, as certain standards can affect the university model we want and the university model and the Catalan university system. Yes, he wanted to make a manifest that in no case can we talk about a 3+2 model or a 4+1 model. We don't want to, like Government, switch from one model to another, what there can be, as much as possible, can talk about flexibility in the duration of the studies, but, for criteria and strictly academic reasons, we don't want there to be any other criteria that can determine this fact. We believe that the real debate should not only be the duration of the studies, but – and you are referring to it, too, in your inquiry – in those skills that the graduates must acquire during their training process, already by acquaintances, already by exercise, then, later, by their profession. And a first feature that we want to ensure, that we believe it must be guaranteed and that it is guaranteed is the existence of consensus with the entire university community, with universities, with students and with the government. There will be no unilateral decision from the government, and the only decisions that have been taken in this area have been taken in the framework of the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia and with the participation of the whole community. Second place... So, first, consent. Secondly, we consider that if there is any aspect to determine which degrees and five masters are to be made more flexible, this must be the academic criterion, no more. They must be the same universities that, in the framework of the programming that is also discussed in the case of the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia, can present their proposals according to academic criteria. Currently we have 474 degree studies in the form of 4+1, 474. 80_percent of students who are studying at Catalan universities are enrolled in public universities, in this sense; 474, most of them are public, and 80_percent are enrolled in public universities. And the course you will continue doing the same studies, 474, and with the same proportionality, in the same form. It doesn't change anything. Will there be degrees to the 2016-2017 course? So, for the course 2016-2017, the offer of us degrees with the format of 3+2 is limited to four we study, which is what the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia approved. And I want to point out that all of them, singular proposals, new, did not exist until now, did not replace anything and they are all very internationalized. These studies are those of digital creation and production, which is done at the University of Barcelona through an ascribed centre; that of bioinformatics, which is an interuniversity master of Pompeu Fabra University, the University of Barcelona and the Polytechnic University of Catalonia, which is also done through an ascribed centre; the global studies, which is done at Pompeu Fabra University through a suitable centre, and that of design and digital arts, which is a non-personal course and is a non-personal degree made by the Open University of Catalonia. In summary, the next course will have four studies that will have the format 3+2; the rest, almost 480 titles, will continue to mean 4+1. There are no substantial changes and there is no – cap – title that is transformed from 4+1 to 3+2, cap. Moreover, as one of the agreements adopted in the framework of the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia says, the proposals for implementing us will tend to refer to the analysis of the skills that the graduates must acquire for the necessary personal and professional development. That must be the criteria. In addition, this debate about the implementation of Bolonya, the studies of Bolonya and 3+1, taking into account that the totality of countries around our structure is 3+2, the flexibility in academic terms, strictly, could allow many more opportunities for students, and also favor the mobility of international students to our university offer. Why should we have more than 85 percent of the students' interchannels that make Catalonia is a fan and is given with countries that have like the main structure of degrees, three years, and two-year masters. And that's the reality. In fact, they are mostly all but, so I would say to the Spanish State, to Scotland, Turkey, determined and ancient countries of the Soviet Union, and of the former Soviet Union and Yugoslavia. Plus, and for what he does to the masters, the +2 formula is one of the possible options, but it's not the only one, nor should it be, nor can it be, and it's going to determine which one is the most common. One of the third characteristics – and it is one of the characteristics and scopes in which you have devoted special attention – must be that this flexibility does not have to assume any additional cost for students or less resources for universities. And in this sense, I would like to read to you what the Board of the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia determined when three specific non-permanent commissions were set up to discuss and agree on the flexibility of degrees and masters or, better yet, the effects of how Royal Decree 43/2015 applied. And June 5th came to these agreements. It is to say, in these commissions there were representatives of the university, representatives of the government and representatives of the students. The Preus and Scholarships Student Access Guarantee Commission agreed that the price structure will not increase the contribution of students to the same number of credits. First deal it's gonna do. One_second agreement; that all students entitled to one-hundred-and-a-half-year-old studies, during the five-year post-graduation courses, will have the right, as at least, to attend sixty master's study credits at the same current public price as the degree in which they hold through the Equity Beak Mechanism. A third agreement was that this agreement must also be in the condition that it should apply so well that students of the new grades of one hundred and forty credits can be graduated. For what it does to the Commission for Guaranteeing University Financing, it is a guarantee – there is this agreement – that, as a minimum, the contribution of the Government of Catalonia to the financing of the joint university system will be maintained. Therefore, no more costs for students, no less resources for the same universities. And if I had any compensation, the General would have kept it. Therefore, and in agreement with a decision to be made on the basis of academic questions, because it should not lead to a price increase for students and families, it respects education in the current situation. What is the desirable objective, speaking of price – you have made reference –, price of degree and price of master? The objective that is desirable in the long term is what has been voted on in this Parliament and what has been voted on in Resolution 225 of last parliamentary term. To seek to ensure that economic and presuppositional possibilities allow, because this is so, the convergence of the price of degrees with the price of master. And here, to the extent that we have sufficient resources, we will have and we will be able to go. What's wrong with us? So, if we take into account that the degrees of 3+2, in the best of the cases, would not begin until 2017-2018, if there is the necessary consensus and so it is decided by the university community, then we would have a col of three or four years to try to make this convergence of price and cost that, obviously, is what we want. And in later term, one thing I want to say to you; we, like the government, will not impose anything. We will respect the demands and petitions that make us get all the universities. And we're not going to die of this. Then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.234.0	There's a word from Mr. Albert Botran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.235.0	Well, thank you. Counselor, it is true, therefore, that it is a recurring theme in the last plenary. As Ramon Barnils said, the best way to ask is to ask again, and, therefore, here we are. And I think in the end we're going to get caught up in it. About the consent, we agree. What we are asking is to take it further beyond this course 2016-2017, to which, therefore, the conclusions of the commissions of the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia were affected. And that's why we're bringing him here, too, because he has the size he deserves. And we also do it from a dynamic, from a non-partisan point of view. That is to say, we understand that we gather claims that go beyond the students who may have an affinity with us and that I think they will be very much attuned to the students who at the time participated in these commissions, and that they were, therefore, relatively satisfied and relatively dissatisfied. The structure is not the problem. That, we have been insistent, but let's go back to explaining it. The structure of the teachings is not the problem, in fact, three years of degree and two years of master, if this given as a result of a formation, therefore, of five years, to which everyone could have had the same access, and did not produce an intermig filter, after passing from the degree to the master. Three weeks ago, in Joan Giner he set it up with examples, which he went through with the licensing of telecos; I will also put my case to him. That is to say, I studied four years at the public university at a price..., it seems to me that every year was about 500_euros and I fell, plus the master, which cost me about 1,500_euros; I paid four years to 500_euros and I fell, and the last one, to 1,500_euros. Now what we're talking about is that the licentiate... they've already raised the tuition fees of the grades, so they're going to pay three years to a lot more than these 500_euros that I was paying, and they're going to pay two to these 2,500_minimum euros that we say it's the one that's settled, huh? And we already know, therefore, that the compromise that is derived from the commissions of the Interuniversity Council is the 3+1+1, is to say that that first year, therefore, would not be substantially different, but that would be as if it were another year more of a degree. But we think that this is insufficient; that is to say, this 3+1+1 is not what we aspire to, and it is not what we think it equates degrees with masters, which is what it is that it wants to converge, but it should be, these five years, equal... – underneath, huh? Let's see if we're fooling each other and making the equipment up – the equipment under the price of the grade, right? That's what's in most of Europe's countries, and that's what we're looking for. Also tell him, finally, therefore, that the rank of the agreements that were given in these commissions, we believe it must be very major. For example, the agreements that come from these commissions would not be..., nor would they just not want public access if you didn't have them – and if I'm wrong to correct'm' – the council of university students from Catalonia. That is to say, it is a document that remains, a little, because of the transcendence that the government has and taking over how it takes over..., as the main one to ensure that the introduction of 3+2 will not be socially regressive, we give it the size it deserves. And for this we also want to bring it here, to ask the government and, fifteen days from now, to give it the rank of judge and that everyone is able to position around, so, of this, to guarantee, we insist – and with this end – that these changes in the order of university studies are not done if it is not guaranteed that they will not assume social regression, that they will not assume a more social filter among those who can study the degree, because it is what is still up there through their return, but that, in the future, you see the master, which will practically be required to have a complete university education..., you do not see the master as something that presupposes an economic barrier. This is the main concern of the student movement, and this is the main concern that we want to collect and bring here in the form of inquiry and subsequent motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.236.0	The word has the advisor, Mr. Jordi Baiget.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.237.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, honourable Member. Look, there was no willingness to ignore the agreements that were made at the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia. In fact, the agreements, the results and the fruits of these specific and ad hoc commissions that were created to analyze how it would affect or how it could affect the application of the decree, so, there is..., are pinjades. And, therefore, the will did not go unnoticed, the will did explain it, because I think it's a good deal, that it came..., when it comes to the whole community and all the members and all the elements of the university community. We say... this study that should be done according to how it is pricing and what are the costs and what is the percentage to be borne by families, students in college, we are doing it and they will soon be here in Parliament. We try to complete all the motions approved in this Parliament, and this must be the basis of all future positions and decisions we have to take in the matter of fees and university fees, whether by degrees or by masters, which may be in this country in the future. You said what you paid when you were a student. So, today – today – there are students who pay less than you paid when you were a student. And they're thanks to the fairies. I also have to say – this is true – that today there are students..., high-school students or students who belong to families with higher pay, yes, I recognize it. It's the model that's been sorted by social tariff. The people and families of students who can or who have higher returns pay more, and then there are trams and there are many students who pay less than they paid before tax increases. And even there are students, now that it's said and compared... because the priests that you said about the studies in the first intervention you made, the priests that you said about the studies and the priests were at the highest, because depending on what the income level is the price that each student will pay, and it's an individualized price. And this is, precisely – precisely – what it is..., and the boon of social pricing that we are doing. And you spoke of university as a factor of equity and social ascent. I'll give you some data, because as much as it's good that we remember a function that's there, that's done and that's what you want to continue doing, from university as an element of progress and social inclusion and social ascent. 80_percent of the students in this country are studying in public degrees and in public universities; therefore – in mid-January, 80_percent of the cost of each university square is paid for the taxes of all citizens. And this is a question that we can decide: is 80, is 100? There are countries that are 100_per_cent. Yeah, but maybe the health system and the health system have another function that's not as good as here. In the end, this decision is a decision that we must make, it must be taken in Parliament, it must be taken on behalf of the representatives of the people of Catalonia and it must be taken with a global view. But, still, 80 per cent of average, and in some cases 100 per cent, is paid for the taxes of all citizens. 40 percent of Catalan university students have, have some type of scholarship at this time. And never before had there been such a large percentage of young Catalans in college. Moreover, the equity scholarships are broader, with broader criteria, than those determined by the ministry. 47 percent of those who are studying at universities today, neither their father nor their mother are university graduates or graduates. Therefore, this is an example of the social ascent, of the equal opportunities and equity represented by this system and which we all want to maintain. And then a known date today, which is also good that we sometimes put it in store. Look, if we do the exercise of looking at the ratio of Times Higher Education, which makes the ratio of which are the best European universities, it turns out that 44_percent of the students of Catalan universities are at universities very well positioned in this ratio; if we look at Germany, this rate is 22_percent. And these are the data that comes out, and we also need to put it in value. And that there are a 44_percent of students who with these characteristics, with these circumstances of today that we have, are located in universities that are very well positioned in the European regions, so it is also a merit of the effort that the whole community does, but also all the administrations, and also the whole society, to situate and to put the university in the place that is also close to it – as the social elevator of this society. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.238.0	The eighth item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on security policies presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. [[Question to the Government on security policies]] [[300-00028/11]] I have the word Mr. Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.239.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, well, it's up to me to make this inquiry about security policies. I already told Councilman Jané this morning that we would talk about security, but also about politics. And we must remember that security is a social good – we recognize it as an essential character – and that it is essential to enjoy freedom, one of those higher values that are perfectly enshrined in our democratic order, and that, as public representatives, as representatives of our fellow citizens, we are obliged to defend and achieve adequate levels of security in the public and private sphere that allow us all to develop our daily activities with absolute freedom, without any restriction, rather than respecting the standards of living that underpin existing legislation. My parliamentary group, in Ciutadans, is concerned and concerned about the issue of security and we believe in the need to strengthen the operational capacity of public officials who hold it. Our security model, which we most likely share in good measure with you, Mr. Counsellor, is based on an integral view that the activities of public authorities and their agents are aimed at protecting people and their assets, before possible attacks or risks. In our visit to the service of this essential service it is the people, our fellow citizens, who must be at the center of public security policies. Of course, in this essential sense for the full vision of security as well as social well-being to strengthen and defend, we can very much agree with both you, as represented by the Government of the Generality, as I myself, as a member of the parliamentary group leading the opposition in this Parliament. While the full view of security calls for the inclusion of aspects and questions directly related to civil protection and emergencies, transit, private security operators and even all the games and shows, this inquiry specifically aims to be addressed to the Police of the Generality, the Squadron Cos, and also on a timely basis to the activity and coordination of local police in Catalonia. It is an inquiry that from the Parliamentary Group of Citizens we want to have a built character, with the aim of improving some aspects of public safety in Catalonia that concern us. I have to tell you that one of the questions we are concerned about is the dependence of your Government, of the current Government of the Generality, on a political group that has a vision of security that we understand a little coincides with what we have and what, from our point of view, you and your Government should have, and what you may have. We have a vision of public security that may coincide with what you have, I have already said; but it is that, at last, some of the current members of the parliamentary group who support their Government, precisely those who belong to separatist organizations, such as the self-named "Catalan National Assembly", if they continue to defend the defence of this association, therefore they would be disposed that the Mossos de Esquadra Cos do not respect the democratic laws in force, the democratic order in force, the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy. That is to say, they would be willing to make a move, that we could say, even insurrectionally, that you would ensure the control of critical infrastructures for the security and freedom of the citizens of Catalonia. Your party, in the previous legislature, has already pronounced against this possibility. The Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union to the draft legislature and, also, the Republican Left Group, which are both part of, therefore, the bulk of Junts for Yes in this Parliament, have already opposed this claim that it defended and that we believe it is still defending the ANC. You, Mr Councillor, should defend, promote and demand this motivated position of the citizens in that democratic institutions are at the service of all citizens and that the democratic order which is exercised by the rights and freedoms of all, which ensures the foundations of coexistence in pau and freedom and which allows social and economic development in the sphere of one of the Member States of the European Union, is scrupulously respected. Do I? Do you feel comfortable with the support of a political amalgamation in which some are on the line of unilaterally breaking our democratic order? , in what way are some willing to skip democratic legality by resorting to a supposed legitimacy which is not obtained by the mere fact of establishing, in an electoral programme, a plan of disconnection, of denying political and legal reality, of wanting to build a parallel reality which is simply impossible and is rejected, not only by a majority of Catalans, but also for all the governments of the democracies integrated into the European Union? Are you prepared to be able to accommodate the officials of your department, those in charge of reballing for the benefit of the security of everyone in Catalonia, some officials, some agents who have objective reasons to be unmotivated, because they are often not adequately equipped, or have not counted on the added material equipment, or have not been paid in due course, or have not organized their work turns in a way that allows, therefore, the normal development of their tasks? Because I have to tell you that that's how some feel, maybe a lot, sure that mass, agents of the police of Catalonia, of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, and also some, maybe a lot, sure that mass, agents of the various local police, who have seen their representatives, their direct managers openly plant the breach of democratic order; that they see how it is in doubt the democratic mandate to exercise their function of providing security within the strict respect of the law. Today, the majority of its parliamentary group, the majority at the Bureau of Parliament of the parliamentary group which gives support to its Government, the four members of Junts per el Si to the Bureau of Parliament, therefore, have allowed a motion from its anti-system partner to enter the parliamentary debate calling for his police, the police of Catalonia, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, to be incomplete with his democratic duty to respect and obey the mandate of the judiciary, the courts of justice. Do you, Counselor, agree with this decision of your travel partners? If you had been a member of the Bureau of Parliament, would you have supported the parliamentary process of a Member such as this, which is manifestly unconstitutional and contrary to a ruling of the Constitutional Court? You, Mr Councillor, who is a legal expert in the field of constitutional law, would have allowed with your favourable vote that Parliament is converted once more into the scene of the parallel reality of the Matrix in which some want to develop the daily activity of the Catalan democratic institutions? Possibly, he doesn't feel comfortable. I'm sure he doesn't feel comfortable. In any case, I hope that you do not settle in and that in the case of the executive council you make your voice felt against positions that put at risk the legal security of the officials, positions that are counter to the democratic order that put at risk until all the same self-government of Catalonia. Because our obligation – yours too, Counselor – is to strengthen the self-governance capacity of the Government of Catalonia, since institutional loyalty, the only way to be loyal to all the citizens of Catalonia, without exception: institutional loyalty; but often absent and some political groups consider it indispensable, which does not fit into political and institutional activity. Ensuring and strengthening self-government, maintaining institutional loyalty is the best way to ensure coexistence in freedom. And it is your obligation, Counselor, to maintain your department and the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra in the sense of this institutional loyalty and in the strict respect of the legal framework and the state of law emanating from the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, to maintain public security, to ensure at all times the proper functioning of infrastructures and government institutions, at any level of the Administration of the State in Catalonia, of compliance with democratic legality. Under the terms of the 100/X motion of this Parliament, which was approved now, shortly, the 10th will be two years, on the measures to guarantee the public order, the security of the citizen and the institutions of government before possible massive mobilizations, promoted by Ciutadan and approved two years ago, I have told him, with the favorable vote of his party, then integrated into the Federation of Convergence and Union, and of the Republican Left of Catalonia, both integrated mainly in the current group that gives support to the Government of the Generality, to Together for the Yes. But, well, I told him that I want to talk about issues that relate directly to security and to the performance and ability to perform the Squad's Mosses Cos, and, how time has run out for me, so I'll just come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.240.0	The word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Jordi Jané.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.241.0	Madam President. Counsel, ladies and gentlemen..., Mr Alonso, you start from a conception of security shared by the Government of Catalonia, no longer the Councillor of the Interior ; the Councillor of the Interior speaks on behalf of the Government in giving answer to his inquiry, and I want to convey it is that from the Government of Catalonia we have the right, the will to consider security as a pillar of the welfare state ; to consider this essential character: without security there is no freedom, there is no coexistence, there is no respect. Therefore, the will of the Councillor of Interior, the will of the Government of Catalonia is to preserve security and to be at the side of all the bodies, of the emergencies... He spoke of various bodies, and said: "I will focus more on the Cos de Mosos d'Esquadra. Let's not forget the Bomber Coss, either, which is obviously a cabal piece to preserve, so, also, in very difficult times..., every day hundreds of rescues of people who suffer, and there we also have the Bomber Coss. Therefore, a full, absolute coincidence with this conception of the need for security to be guaranteed. And that's what I take for granted. Personally, I would not form part of a government that frivolized in terms of security; I would rather not take on this responsibility before minimizing it, because for people..., if we now take over the CEO's inquiry or other inquiries, luckily, the concern for security is not of the main ones. And that's a good symptom; it means that people, the citizens, realize that overall security is guaranteed. Obviously, we will always have to regret episodes and incidents, but overall the overall feeling is that there is a good level of security. The proof is, therefore, that every time they visit us more people, in Catalonia, than every time... The perception, when they have instigated it in a third country, is that the people cancel the flights; or, at last, the vacation planning they wanted to do initially, if there is a tempt, if they see that the security perilla, cancel it. Therefore, this does not happen to us in Catalonia, and, among all, and obviously the Government has a special task to do, we must preserve that this remains so. Therefore, I thank you, therefore, for this initial premise, which you know that this councillor has also expressed to the committee that you have the honour of presiding, and therefore here you will find us absolutely there. They also find us in a concern that I try, from the first moment, to be-there absolutely above, that it is to improve the operational ability of the agents of the body. It's a concern that you're moving me and that I'm moving that you're right, that you can always work hard to improve this operational response capability, and think that we're posing ourselves decisively. I will give you some concrete example. At the first meetings of the new Government of Catalonia, when we were no longer in operation, last month of generation, one of the important investments in a context of lack of presuppositionary hardship..., but we managed to get a contingency fund of more than 11.5 million euros, and between the parties of this contingency fund – which has already been approved – there are essential aspects to improve the operational capacity of the body, because we need it. We need, for example – and it's already ugly and we'll speed it up even more from the approval of this contingency fund – that all agents have anti-ball uniforms, all of them, and that they have it as an EPI, that an EPI is an individual protection equipment, that all of them have, from the first agent to the chief commissioner, all of them; to which an agent will come out of the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia, he will have his armilla. And this, which is a legitimate aspiration, and which we have set ourselves, and which our prediction is that we do not end this year without all agents having this weapon – and, obviously, we are prioritizing those units where we need them most, but we are accelerating, absolutely, this purchase and acquisition of arms for everyone – you think it is a demand..., you think that..., and I respect very much your knowledge in the field of defence and security, because it is clear to me that you have, for example, this week, at the Congress of Deputies, with aspirations from the CNP and from the Civil Guard, that you are asking me..., this week the Congress of Deputies knows that, for example, this week, at the Congress of Deputies, with aspirations from the CNP and from the Civil Guard, that you are asking me..., this week the Congress of Deputies has approved, for example, for example, for example, for example, for the sake of... yes, for the sake of... So, as they approve of things that are already many years older, we, from a thing that has obviously had a presuppositional situation – and we still have it – that is not what we would like, we make this effort because we believe that it is necessary, it is useful, and it has proved itself, later, to Santa Coloma, therefore, in a difficult incident that happened to a body agent. I spoke to her, and she said to me, "Counselor, what luck she was carrying an armilla. We can't afford to pass an incident like this. So, with..., we always say touch the skirt, but there's not enough to touch the skirt, we put ourselves there. And, therefore, "let's pose ourselves - I want to say this contingencies so that actually the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra has the equipment that it needs. I'm telling you, with all sincerity; put 'em in the seat, for a moment, of the Councillor of the Interior. I am convinced that any of the Members, of all the groups, who are here, in the Chamber of the Parliament of Catalonia, would try to do the same. But it's not always possible to do everything at once and there's no resources to do everything right away. And so, the plan is, the program is approved, there's the presuppositional endowment, and the goal is that this is done and done from this year 2016. Then he also asked me other aspects, which I also wanted to open, from this point of view, a reflection, because you were talking to me a moment ago about what is, therefore, the necessary defense of the functioning of the body. I believe here that the Government of Catalonia has said this very clearly: the officials must always complete the law, and in concrete terms the police, since we focused the inquiry on the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, have a binding mandate. I can already give them orders, which, when I'm a police officer, plus, I don't give them to, but they obey a judicial authority. But the judicial authority can already give them orders: I can't give in this case counter-orders, nor can they hear a counselor who gives them to them, because, according to the law of the police of Catalonia, they cannot in their actions fail to complete the legal order. And, therefore, I also made it very clear, because you also asked me what my position was. My position is what marks in this case the law of the police of Catalonia, and, therefore, I must preserve the function in this case..., that the same rules apply to the agents of the body, and, therefore, I must respect it. However, the same way that the agents of the body are to comply with the law, the agents of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra are also always on the side, as it cannot be otherwise, of the institutions of Catalonia, to which they also belong, and are obviously on the side, as it cannot be otherwise. Imagini's, Mr. Alonso, great events crowd that has experienced the people of Catalonia, with the diades of September 11th. Thousands and thousands of people on the street demonstrating with respect, civility and security. Why? Because there is a cosmos of squadron movements that is placed on the side of those who organize these demonstrations to preserve order, to preserve security, to make it easier for those people who want to express themselves on the street to do so from the coexistence and from the civics. This is the concept of police cos, cos of proximity, that we defend from the government and that the same law takes us so that it's that way. And a thing that, if I may, also requires greater international projection and greater collaboration with the rest of the forces and security. I, a few years ago, addressed a letter to the Minister of the Interior, just after the delay on March 22nd in Brussels, and I put forward an aspect in which I believe that we all agree: before the Gihadist threat, which is difficult, what we have to do is actively collaborate all – all – all European polices, and therefore I also legitimately claim that what is said in Article 164.4 of the State... – which certainly did not challenge, and obviously the Constitutional Court did invalidate –, that is that it is not fully valid, that the General is present, that the Assembly of Mossos d'Esquadra is present in the working groups with the polices of other countries. And that, for example, is a fault that is not good, and that I transferred to the minister, because it is necessary, because it is essential. Because it is essential that we be part of the CITCO, with the opportune...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.242.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.243.0	I'm done, so, Madam President. We will, of course, Mr Alonso, have more opportunities to debate in the second round, but I repeat this: to gather the Mosso d'Esquadra, which we have done, is also to gather its possibilities for interaction with the rest of the European police.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.244.0	I have the word Mr. Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.245.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. Well, I wasn't sure that there were many aspects to this question of the security we agreed on, but I also made him see, therefore, that there is some concern in the agents. We don't have to quantify it either, but that's the concern. And this concern is also given because everything that you do is, and cannot be, in any other way, in the obligation that the same agents have to defend the democratic order, to be on the side of democracy, of this binding mandate of respect for the law in force, they are also concerned because precisely the parliamentary group, which I know is not in part, but that it is the parliamentary group that supports its government, so it has been visited... In a way we might say that it is pushing, therefore, that it is again an incident that occurred on 9 November, that is to say, that it is again a situation in which this constitutional order, this democratic order, has passed. And also, therefore, to put this, let's say, legal certainty that the public servants, you will function at all times and, of course, also the agents of Mossos d'Esquadra. Look, you know why you've heard me say it, and we've also proposed it, we are absolutely in agreement with the need for real integration into information systems, into intelligence systems at national level and, of course, also at international level, because the threats, the risks we face today, so they make it necessary. And I have to tell him that he will speak of this, of course, also, our young man, because we are sure that we need to improve the operational capacity of the Squadron Mosses' body and the joint of the security forces and bodies of the State, because we have a risk from the very hard table, a risk that can have heavy consequences. It is true that there is a perception, a perception extended to the whole world that Catalonia and Spain's conjunction is a good destination, it is a destination in which many things can be done, so, enjoying the good weather and also enjoying a security that is somehow perceived on the street. So we have to keep this and we have to make sure. It's everyone's responsibility. And you were talking to me about a concrete incident, the one that happened in Santa Coloma, a unfortunate incident, but it seems that it also points out that there is a possibility that there is a part of the equipment that is not at all, therefore, on condition or that it is not adequate to fulfill the functions that it is to perform, that it is to ensure, in any case, also the safety of the same agent. I said to him: "I am still lucky that he was carrying armilla. But, of course, you didn't say – and I'm telling you – that the arm that he was wearing wasn't his, that it was a companion's. Therefore, this also means, therefore, that we are in a situation of precariousness against which we must fight and what we must prevent all of us, right? Therefore, well, we agree on many things, of course, and certainly also on the motion that we present, so we will arrive at points of contrast, points of agreement. But, well, I have to tell you that we still have a very precarious situation for what it does, a very wide deployment with a great precariousness of effect, which does not make it possible to get to the full; therefore, we will have to do something respectful. This lack of effect, which is already chronic and which, with this situation of risk that we are living at hours of this time, therefore, still makes the working conditions much worse, the performance conditions on the part of the agents of the body of Mossos d'Esquadra, of this essential service... We must remember: we are guaranteed freedom to all. Well, then, apart from that, we'll talk about the need to improve, so, and also to dignify the task of developing citizen security agents. There is much to do, yet; there are commitments adopted by successive governments that have not yet come to an end. We want to talk about training, recycling, training, training with weapons, in certain techniques, in practices of personal defense... These are very important questions in that there is a certain lack of care. We want to improve the conditions to confront the current threats, this terrorist phenomenon, organized crime as well, and to deepen in intelligence questions, to share information. The Security Board of Catalonia, Mr. Counsellor, to bring it together, is important to talk about these issues here; it is a chronic demand of this group and other groups in this chamber. And we need to coordinate in those essential security issues with all the police, also with the locals, integrating them into the information and training circuits before these threats. We will prepare a motion – an extensive motion – in this sense that it will put all these questions back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.246.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.247.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Alonso, I was thinking something concrete, I too, so... The subject of formation: really, the new presuppostarial impulse that has been given, with this contingencies, must allow some concrete situation. When there are real risk situations, be able to implement, for example, the use of long guns. But obviously, this use of wide arms is expected to predict how it is done, how it is transported, how it ensures its anchoring on vehicles and how it can be used with proper training. I also want to announce that in this Contingency Fund, 200 new-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-th-ths And these 200 add to the 584 units that already exist, like the 508 of shotguns or the 159 of launchers. Therefore, there will be a reversal in the concrete field of long arms: apart from these 200 destined for the citizen security units, there will be no 70 plus for the ARRO and Brimo units and 28 plus for the GHG, which is the Special Intervention Group. Therefore, there is a willingness to acquire, but also training. And, therefore, in this area of training, we will go from one to four annual shooting practices – from one to four – and among these new practices, from the four that will be made, three will be long-gunned. Precisely, to ensure the proper formation of those members of the Mossos d'Esquadra body who should use them. But this use, obviously, must be in the parameters in which, effectively, according to a technical criteria of the commands, it is necessary for the risk situation that may, at a given time, arise. And we'll do it in the parameters of modernity that make the set of things and security forces in the realm of the State and in the European realm. Therefore, we could see images, therefore, of concern. One concern, that of the Gihadist threat..., that I just want to give them a given, a given that exists, that Europol gave it to us last March, and, therefore, all the police bodies and the whole society we have to hold it very present, and it is that at Europol level, on March 11th, one hopes that they have detected 18,000–18,000– Europeans with possible gihadist bonds. This given, therefore, is a relevant given. As it is a fact that there are between 4,800 and 6,000 Europeans who have been able to go to Syria, or to Iraq, to fight, and who may have returned. This, overall, requires a concern and requires something that no one with responsibility can deny – no one. There can be no denying the Ministry of the Interior, be who its holder is. Now we're working with a government, so we'll see if there's a new government in the realm of the state, but there's no denying it. And there can be no denying the combination of forces and elements of security in the European sphere, which the said after the Tuesday in which there was the storm, said: "Let's all work together. So, let's all work together to say that I'm working together with 17,000 officers who are full-time police in Catalonia, which is the body of Mossos d'Esquadra. And it's true that we haven't been able to do so for five years now that they don't call for new promotions, and we've already announced that we want to call for a new promotion. Because, effectively, we need more police work. The threat is great, it's important, but we all need to work together. From here, let there be who there is to the Ministry of the Interior, no one can deny that we have to be part of the CITCO. Because the CITCO is an environment that... everyone has to hear: you have data about a person, you have it in that database and automatically and the alert that that person has antecedents jumps; maybe in the realm of terrorism in another police force. To do so is not to obliterate us from information that can be essential for all, it is essential that the others hold our data; it is essential for the Generality Police's body to have this information, because it is a useful information to preserve the security of all Catalans and of all those who visit us in Catalonia, of all those who are here and who want to live in freedom, with certainty, and therefore require the public powers to cooperate by passing the data and actively collaborating to preserve..., the crime and to be more effective before this terrorist threat that we suffer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.248.0	The new item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on the improvement of health care, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Question to the Government on the improvement of health care]] [[300-00029/11]] The word has Mr. Santi Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.249.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Councillor Comín, you already bring three_months to the government, and you are losing the game: Councillor Junqueras, 142; Councillor Comín, 0. Without paying for pharmacies, of course, councillor Junqueras: a new invoice had to be paid to the pharmacies and they were not paid. Without the European Central Bank admitting good Catalans: they admit the Andalusians, they admit the Valencians, but they say that the finances of the Government of Catalonia are so few solvents that they do not want good Catalans. And, with this, it is possible to announce the imminent opening of 142 offices of the Catalan heritage, with two_ thousand functioning. Meanwhile, health advisor: zero caps, zero hospitals, zero – zero, zero. He brought nearly three months to the government and it wasn't until yesterday that he presented the first government initiative: the Pla per a la maggiore des listes d'espera sanitarias. Honestly, we wanted to have more sense that it was the plan to force the UPC to vote on the assumptions that were not an authentic plan to try to improve the waiting lists of Catalan sanitation. We want to make this inquiry, we ask this inquiry, to have a more global view of healthcare in Catalonia. I'll take care of the debate on health transport. There's already been an inquiry, there's a young man here tomorrow. There have been, at last, consents to the Health Commission: three resolutions on health transport were adopted, that is, with Junts voting against for the Yes, but three resolutions were adopted with consensus. Let's talk, for example, about primary care. The will is shared, I believe, on the part of all parliamentary groups, to strengthen primary care, especially, as at the door of entry into the health system, from two points of view: from the ordinary point of view of primary care, but also from the point of view of extraordinary primary care. And, in this sense, there was CAP that had a phone book to solve those emergencies that were planted in certain municipalities, in certain hours of the day, but also at night. And that was a vantage point for the citizen who had a proximity center to attend to his minor emergencies. Forty-seven CAPs – forty-seven CAPs – with hourly cuts, which means moving the ills to hospital emergencies, with the drawbacks to the ills, to the displacement, and with the consequences that this has on hospital emergencies. Hospital centres that in the past few years have had to reduce health personnel. We've seen the assumptions reduced. We have seen reduced inversions. They've reduced their attention span. They've reduced beds. They've reduced O.R.'s. And in this situation, therefore, it is produced which day, day, we can also read in the communication media: « Collapse to hospital emergencies, the result of a greater influx of people who require emergency care and a lower capacity of hospital centers to derive the ills that come to the emergency or bed, or to attend adequately. And that's how we see... so the news we're seeing repeatedly, so, for example, recently, huh? : « The Hospital de Viladecans leaves a nursing assistant in charge of twenty-seven ills, or « the emergencies of the Hospital de Sabadell absolutely col·lapsades, « the workers of the health consortium of Terrassa are refusing to accept more details. And that's recent, but if we pay for it a few weeks earlier, I think that between his own mandate, two months and a half, a little more: « Col·lapse à l'Hospital del Mar, « Col·lapse a Can Ruti, « Col·lapse a Vall d'Hebron, « Col·lapse a Bellvitge, « Boxes d'emergencies doublés, « patients in the past, which afterward do not consist of statisticians, because hospitals have fictitious plants – they have fictitious plants – in which they register the malalts of emergencies that are in the past, « tension on the professional, « tension on the malalts. Em will allow a parenthesis. This morning we were reunited with people from Mataro and with people from the Consorci Sanitari del Maresme who expressed their immediate concern for the situation of the Hospital de Mataro, which is a situation that has been reddening since many years ago, but the situation now, at this time, is a critical situation. The Parliament has already repeatedly called on the Government of the Generality to take measures to resolve this situation. And, therefore, we would appreciate it, counselor, that you also express what is the position of the Government respecting the current situation immediately and in the short term of the Hospital de Mataró. What has the government done until today? To announce the termination of agreements with private centers? Announce universal health care measures? And, about private centers, let me say it, without dogmas: the main objective is the salvation of Catalans. And to accomplish this main objective we have the media we have, and we have public media and we have private media. If we want to prioritize the public, we already agree; but if the public does not have enough capacity, we use all the media we have in our midst. Because, ultimately, counselor, the debate is not whether or not to terminate the contract of private centers, the debate is: have you done your dues with public centers? have the necessary measures been taken, because in the public sphere can all the consequences that the private centres will no longer do can be addressed? Are we on condition to ensure that this will be so? I just read the news of the Tauli Park in Sabadell. They're stuck. And in these conditions should the derivations that are now going to the Vallès Clinic, counselor? I made it clear. Do you really believe that incorporating irregular immigration into health care is already universal? Is that true? So, look, with 926,000 Catalans on waiting lists, we can't say that Catalan sanitation is a universal sanitation, because there are 926,000 people waiting, and that's not universal. And this should be the government's first priority. Tell Mr. Junqueras that the Catalans need CAP and not the offices of the Catalan heritage. Catalans need doctors and nurses, you won't work from the Catalan hysenda. Catalans need more janitors and not ambassadors. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] On the Pla for the better of the waiting lists, counselor, who presented you dilluns, miss the priorities. I'll explain. You propose four measures: more information. This will not be useful to reduce waiting lists, but it is the first of the measures that you propose: more information. And the first chronologically: immediate application, now. All right. More primary attention: "Let's take over the primary, say. We're on board already. Then... – then I refer to it a little more intensely – already leaves it by September. Proactivity of the health system: Magnificent, in October. And the real measure that would solve the problem of waiting lists, which is to increase hospital activity..., ah, "when the UPC votes on the assumptions; it is to say, without day– without day–, counselor, without day. On primary there are two actions: direct programming of visits to specialists. Allow me to say it, without saying it's not important, I think it's the least important. That's right, with 34_million euros in presupposition – that's what your document says. Now, increasing the resolution capacity of the primary, which is authentically important there, has no presuppositional capability. And it's here, counselor, where we think we should focus: more emergency resolution, more hours, more staff, units specializing in chronicities, other diseases, central sensitivity syndrome – who knows that they claim to take care of ELA's malalts, for example – and then I will continue with some additional proposal. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.250.0	There's a word from Salut's advisor, Mr. Antoni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.251.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Conselera Bassa..., Mr Rodríguez, I have not been able to know on what subject the inquiry dealt with. I have not been able to know whether the inquiry is about the CAP, about the primary, if it is about emergencies, if it is about pharmaceuticals, if it is about Mataró... It has been really difficult for me, a little, to identify the question of the inquiry, if it is not that you consider that it is possible to talk about all the problems of the salvation of Catalans, if it is not that you consider that it is possible to talk about all the problems that the salvation system has, today, in two minutes. So, yes; if you think that in two minutes we can talk about everything... then you talked about all the problems that salvation has today in Catalonia in two minutes. We made a little change, and we made a little snack, an appetizer, a little bit of each. But I think these issues are so important – so important – that they require a little focus. And I say we select and try to talk about some concrete theme. Then I also thank you that you think my abilities are, so I will not say infinite, but very great; because you ask me that in three months I solve all the problems of health, of the Catalan health system. It's okay – it's okay – that you consider me, my team, on condition of doing this little miracle, let's say it, right? We have a much more modest view than ourselves. We've explained what we're thinking about solving in the parliamentary term, which isn't all, is it? And now I'm trying to play... I'm going to try to play all the songs that you've talked about with the time we have, which is very complicated, isn't it? I will begin, if I may, on the subject of emergencies. Mr. Rodríguez, the situation of the emergencies in Catalonia today is critical in some centers, indeed. Jo, last week's saying was more than an hour to the emergencies that are in the worst conditions of Catalonia, which are – I think you've heard about it – them from the Hospital Clínic. Partly for structural reasons, not just for presuppositional reasons. I've been to other emergencies in a critical situation. I've been to the ER in Hebron Valley. I'm going directly to see myself with my eyes and my team in the hospitals of Catalonia. It will be confirmed by the professionals of the centers that I had occasion to visit at these three_months. And I found a person in the emergency room, level 3, of the Hospital Clinic, who was doing a few hours that I was waiting for. And I do... – I appreciate you having this topic because I will share with you what you told me – he said to me: "Listen, I am very angry with the government, that it is not able to solve this. And he said to me: "Certainly, I am still more angry with the opposition, which makes us useful and instrumentalizes the people who are today in the urgency for their interests, who have nothing to do with ours. That's what an emergency patient told me the other day. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm saying it because I keep it in mind until what you're doing at this point, maybe what you're doing isn't what you're thinking – it's not what you're thinking. Maybe you think you're defending a people who at these times think you're using them. We're serious about emergencies. We are working on an emergency director board, I announced to my appearance that I would do it, and this emergency director board, like it is a very important issue that is working very seriously and very hard and will be presented at the time we already have the defined, clear and decided ideas, and we will present it before the Health Commission, we explain everything that, honestly and kindly, can be divided and with the presuppositional availabilities to address this issue. Second question. I understand that for you the law of universality does not follow... the law of universal access to salvation does not follow a political initiative. I understand that for you to ensure that all the citizens of our country, who live and work in Catalonia, who at that time did not guarantee access to our care system or who had to wait three months after their registration in order to be able to enter a CAP or a hospital, to guarantee this right I understand that for you it is not a relevant political initiative. I'm not surprised you're missing this initiative. But the 65,000 people to whom we have guaranteed their right to access to salvation and all who accompany them consider this initiative to be very important. He could lie down there and see what they're saying, if it's his interest that these citizens of our country be citizens in equal rights to the rest. About the CAPs. About the CAPs I have to clarify a few concepts that we would ask for a lot more time, let's say. The first is that we have announced an initiative on very high primary, which is that we are analyzing the needs in the salvation of the basic areas, not just the population. Because we want to distribute resources not only in terms of population, but also in terms of the needs that depend in particular on the social determinants of health, which are very different in terms of the socioeconomic level of each basic area. And on this issue we are working with all the rigour that the issue deserves, and we plan to redistribute resources to primary care based on these needs that we first need to have on a map. And we have yet to announce another initiative with regard to the question of what you are referring to; that it is starting to build in the way it is to be built, that it is with the local power, with the municipal authorities – we have planned to do so – that it is to determine which criteria must be based on which we must rethink the continued attention. But, Mr. Rodriguez, will you understand that sometimes there are measures of centralization of resources that improve the right to salvation? Do you understand that sometimes there are decisions of centralization of resources that they do is to guarantee a higher quality of care? Do you know that when there was continued care for twenty-four hours, at the time that doctor was asked to give home care he was absent from the health centre, which could have caused a city, which was not the one that had called for home care, to arrive at the health centre and it was found that there was no doctor in that health centre that was supposed to guarantee urgency? And that, therefore, when we centralize continued care with more professionals in less health centres, what we are doing is ensuring that those centres are not unwelcome at the end of the day and that, at the same time, professionals can provide home care. Because I assume you are aware that one of the key instruments of continued citizen care and urgent citizen care is home care. Are you aware, you, that there are many people, particularly great people, that what you need is for the doctor to go home and not for them to go to the doctor's house? I understand, you know, that what we're doing is a new model that better guarantees the right of the people's salvation, especially the great people, because what we're doing is strengthening, yes, primary; yes, continued attention; yes, twenty-four hours; what we're doing is strengthening home care? Do you understand that, you? And so, I hope you agree with me that this is the way we need to go deeper. Therefore, on primary, God does not, to carry three_months, initiates. On Mataró, you will understand – you will understand – that I will not ventilate myself in thirty_seconds a theme of the importance and concern with which is the financial sustainability of the Hospital of Mataró and the Consorci Sanitari del Maresme. You will understand that I cannot commit the frivolity of explaining it, now, here, in thirty seconds, what is the solution that we are thinking, working and dialogue for Mataró. It seems to me that the mayor of Mataró, by the way, at the meeting also asked the parliamentary groups for a bit of rigour at the time of addressing this issue. It has come to me that the same mayor has made this warning; a bit of rigour, because he also has the same interest that I have in dealing with this matter with earnestly. And about the referrals to the private centers, I understand that you have suffered in the soul the day a headline read the diary that said: "The Councillor Comín will deprivatize... – to me it is not a concept that pleases me especially, but it is what the journalists have made serve –, " will deprivatize the hospital network and will stay out of the Siscat those hospitals at these times operated by companies with a desire to work. I understand that you have felt hurt in the deepest of your sensibility. I, who also have an excellent dialogue with the lords of Quiron Salut, because I am also a health care authority and, therefore, I also regulate private health care and I also protect, in this sense, the legitimate interests of this health care, they have learned better than you that when there are centers like Tauli, that at these times they have unusable beds, or unusable ones, the normal thing is that the assumption that at these times it is intended for private operators who have never been part of the system, let us, when the contract is over, dedicate it to these private operators who are eager to work, against whom we insist, do not have others against it, but are not in point 1 of our pre-list. At the top of our list of preferences are the public operators, Mr Rodriguez – the public operators – even though you hurt him. And if the Tauli has the capacity available... And if I don't hurt him better, because I mean, we'd agree with that. We are to reinforce the public character – we are to strengthen the public character – of Catalan sanitation: so, we dedicate some assumptions that today are destined for concerts, many, legitimate, but that for us are not priorities, we dedicate this assumption to open the beds and the operating rooms of all those public centers that today have beds and operating rooms. I think he's heard it all, he's heard it all from Quiron's lords. Waiting lists. I will refer to my second intervention, but I assure you, Mr Rodriguez, that you cannot hide the lists of waiters without putting in more doctors, more nurses, more surgeons and more beds. And I guess you don't ask me to work without charging. And if you want more doctors, more nurses, and you want doctors and nurses to cover, we need more pressure. And if you really want to reduce the waiting lists, then you know what to do: vote on the assumptions that the Government of Catalonia will present, in which one of the main measures will be...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.252.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.253.0	... the increase in expenditure in health – thank you, Madam President – to make this reduction of the waiting lists. Specifically an increase of 100_million euros for the reduction of the waiting lists. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.254.0	The word has the deputy Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.255.0	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, do you want the People's Party seriously to give support to the assumptions of the Generality that you can present your Government? Is that true? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I give up the Catalan heritage offices, I give up the embassies, I give up the independence process, I give up everything you entertain and take care of what people are worried about. [[Some applause.]] Take care of the salvation, take care of the teaching, take care of the students who are in barracks, take care of the people who go through it badly. And those who say, Lord, do not bother so much to sign racist linguistic manifestos! [[Some applause. You're saying, "Oh...]] Allow me to macabar, because, if not, it will pass me by alt and I don't want it to pass me by alt, because they stop from taking over the city hall, I wanted to talk to them again about the community pharmacy. We have three thousand offices distributed in the territories that could play a role in the system of salvation. Moreover, there is a parliamentary resolution, 1106 of last parliamentary term, which points in this sense and instructs the Government to take steps to ensure that these three-thousand agents that we have distributed in the territory and, moreover, with an extraordinarily important capil·larity, can have a paper, as they have already been experimentally in certain actions – colon cancer screening, management of certain chronicities – can have an important role in the Catalan health system. And, said that, let's explain to him some of the things he told us. He said: "Home, in two minutes we cannot talk about all health policy. I know that, but I was hoping that, two and a half months after you took possession, we would have had time to talk about health policy, on some occasion, in the commissions, and we couldn't do it. To you..., "listen'm, it's that we haven't had time. Well, then, we'll have some time. Miri, when you presented a plan to reduce the waiting lists, we asked for your appearance at the committee today to explain it to the press and explain it to the parliamentary groups. It is more, as the plan that you have submitted did not please us, we have put forward a proposal for law to reduce the waiting lists and we invite it to speak to us so as to seek points of agreement, to be able to approve a law, and that, in reference time accounts as you have now, we are able to take all the pleas to offer time of guarantee, which is what the Government has charged yet not a year ago. In the emergency director's office, how do we solve the emergencies? And it makes me, you know, the initial appearance. How do we solve the problem we have in emergencies? We'll make an emergency director plan. Well, there's already seven of them. Menys the one with the waiting lists, there's fifteen left. The problem of universality: we don't know how hard, counselor – we don't know how hard – it's a question of assessing priorities. Do you know how many people, of these, were attested – because they were attested – for the Catalan Health System in 2014? Thirty-four. If it seems to us very well that you make a law to deal with thirty-four people with all the legal certainty you want, it is that the problem is the 926,000 people who are on waiting lists. [[Some applause.]] See if you understand. It's a quantitative question, phonentally quantitative, counselor. For primary care. Jo, here, I don't understand. You will already explain to me if you have to make a plan to see what needs there is in the primary attention, or you defend the situation of the primary attention, which is what it has done to me. He said, "We'll do an analysis. But then he says to me, "Ah, I defend what is happening and what is happening. Well, what are we staying at? Do you have to make a plan or don't you have to make a plan? At the Hospital de Mataró, in thirty seconds, I can't explain it to us. But if it's very easy, it's a binary answer, it's not even like a consultation for independence. I can say yes or no: we will take immediate action, yes or no. It's on our agenda, yes or no, because the situation is critical. I respect the debate on private and public centres. If the problem, counselor, is that, surely, what you explain to private operators does not explain it in Parliament. No, it doesn't. You went up to Parliament and said: "On the 22nd of February, meeting of the CatSalut, we will cut the deal with the Clinic of the Vallès and the General Hospital of Catalonia. You say that, but you don't say a single word about what's going on with closed beds, closed operating rooms and the lack of personnel in Tauli Park, which is who will have to meet the greatest demand for interventions that are coming at this time. And that's...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.256.0	Mr. Rodriguez, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.257.0	... what we want to know: how much resources will be allocated to the Tauli Park in order to absorb this demand for intervention and health care. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.258.0	The word has the advisor Antoni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.259.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, in this dynamic a little bit like this, operatic...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.260.0	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.261.0	...that we've taken today, let's just relate it for a moment the two-thousands of you would work from the Tax Agency to what I'm doing. Do you know what's going on? If you ask me to repeat the waiting lists to zero, which you have asked me for several times, I have explained to you that this has a presumption of 1,000_million. And I, to get them, have come to the conclusion, like many Catalans, that we will only get them the day we have full fiscal autonomy in this country. Therefore, I need the two-thousands of you to work from the Catalan heritage to be able to collect the taxes, Mr. Rodriguez, that will serve me, precisely, to guarantee the right to salvation, the right to education, the struggle against the poor and many social measures that are already found in these assumptions. Therefore, yes, Mr Rodriguez, if you honestly, your concern is the better of the social situation of the Catalans, you have the right to vote on assumptions that will tend as practically the only priority the better of the social situation of the Catalans – honourable Member, if I let myself see Mr Rodriguez, it will be much easier for us to follow this inquiry in a normal way. [[Pause.]] In the same way that when you tell me things that don't seem sensible to me and I say it with vehemence, when you give me a good idea I back it up. And I told him at the hearing, and it's true, it hasn't been my priority during these three months, it's a topic I've got going, but I told him and I repeat that the fears of community pharmacy seem to me to be a good contribution on the part of the Popular Parliamentary Group. Therefore, in this topic you are planning to work there, but as you ask me for priorities, effectively, our priorities at these times, at these three_months, have been that the communication media and my appearances in Parliament have been detailed. Mr. Rodriguez, I understand that for you the right to salvation is a matter of number, whether it is 65 or 650; but for us it is not a question of number, for us it is a question of concept. We don't... we're looking for shame if we don't guarantee everyone the right to salvation, in the way they correspond to regulations. It's not a matter of whether it's 65 or 300! And, therefore, you need to follow the universal access law: for us it is a priority initiative, effectively, and as it has an almost zero, very small, budget impact of 2_million euros, we have only been able to get started. There are other measures that depend on the presupposition, unfortunately – badly. About primary school. On primary, listen, the theme of primary deserves... You say: "You have only come to Parliament to..., just explain things to the media. Listen, I made a appearance, which you listened to honestly, which is the appearance that lasted the longest of all the appearances that the members of this government made in their parliament, because I was one hour and forty minutes talking; the appearance, with the turn of replicas, was the longest of all that was done, and I continued to appear on my own initiative! , before the Health Committee, to explain the Nursing Decree, which is a decree that would not be warm, that I do not need the majority parliament to approve it, but I want that even this whole issue is done for the majority parliament! And I've come on my own initiative, on my own motion. And I'll be delighted to make a monographic appearance on the waiting lists, absolutely. But we are very convinced that with waiting lists the approach we have made is the right one: to reduce the waiting time for everyone. Because the big change in waiting lists is this, not talking about the number of people you expect and talking about the time the people are waiting for and saying: "External consultations, the 600,000 Catalans you are waiting for, in accounts to wait 163 days, we want you not to wait 80. Check out the end of the warrant to see if I've made it. And in diagnostic tests the people we're expecting want me to wait thirty-five days and not sixty-one days of middle, which is what they're waiting for at these times. Do we have a fight? Exactly. I thank you very much for making a detailed, concrete proposal with the means available to a parliamentary group, which are different from those available to a government. Assumedly, his plan to reduce the waiting lists will not be as powerful and as rigorous as that of the government; I would only need you to make a plan as powerful, as detailed and as well-analyzed as ours; I have a few different means from the parliamentary groups. But you give me ideas, we'll talk about them, I'll come quickly – quickly – I promise to come quickly to make this monographic appearance on the waiting lists, and we'll look at their resolution, look at the government plan and try to build a consensus, because in the end we work for the people. First. First of all, it's Mr. Rodriguez, many questions that we should try to address, because primary is very important and, therefore, has many fronts. At first there is the issue of management autonomy, at first there is the issue of resolution capacity. Certainly, the 34_million that we have said in the Pla of the lists of hope that we have at first disposal precisely increase the ability of the primary resolution, because what we are saying is: the assumption that we already have for today's diagnostic tests with the presupposition, not a presupposition that we may have, no, the presupposition that we have today, that you provide for the presupposition for diagnostic tests, we say that an important part of this presupposition, which will decide the priority and, therefore, who will put it on the specialist's agenda will be the prime measure. And this is said to increase the resolution capacity! And even more so in the first place we need to discuss the redistribution of resources according to the needs, we need to discuss to what extent the primary deserves continued attention and, therefore, that it is open to the nests, etc. But each of these fears also needs to be addressed in a specific way. Mr. Rodriguez, I know that, beyond the vehemence that characterizes you and me, there is one thing that still characterizes us more, that is the compromise with the people's rights. And, therefore, I am sure that with time, in committee, in hemicles, we will convince, like many other Members...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.262.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.263.0	...we will work together and agree on many issues: community pharmacy, waiting lists, and I hope that many more will continue to do so. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.264.0	The aim of the agenda is to ask the Government about youth policies presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. [[Asking the Government about youth policies]] [[300-00030/11]] The word "Mr. Fernando de Páramo".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.265.0	Well, thank you, Madam President. Consellera Bassa, MPs, MPs... well, before we start this inquiry, I would like to make an engrave in the tone, in the tone with which we are going, with which this MP is going to perform it. Because the purpose of this inquiry is to come here and add up. We want to leave, in this question about young people..., we are going to try to put aside the differences, we are going to try to put aside the sides, the ideologies, and we are going to worry about solving the problems they have and that we have many young people in Catalonia. And that is the object with which he is going to go and the objective with which he is going to be directed this inquiry. Because we are very concerned – I imagine, as you are – about the situation of young people in Catalonia and, as I was saying, we are going to try to make it a proposal and try to reach agreements in this regard. Allow me to make a brief analysis of how the situation is in our generation, in the younger generation. We can say that we are the most prepared generation, we can say that we are the generation that has already been born in democracy, that has been born in a time of advances, technological advances, educational advances, health advances and many other advances. In any case, we have to ask ourselves a question, and it's that: what fails? What has failed all this time? Of course, there are structural failures that would occupy us for a long time, as you can understand, and it is not the subject of this inquiry. But there are also failures and there have also been mistakes that depend on politicians, that depend on us, and I think that's where we have to do the self-criticism. Because we young people are not only the future, we are also the present, and that is why we must put all efforts into future generations as well, but also in this generation of young people. There is a word that defines very well the feeling that many young people live in this country, in Catalonia, in the rest of Spain, which is « frustration. And the dictionary says, and I read textually, that it is that "impossible to satisfy a need or a desire, it is a feeling of sadness and disappointment that generates disappointment. Necessity, desire, disappointment, disappointment... that's how many young people in Catalonia feel today. Young people, I insist, that most of them have done their duties, young people who have fulfilled their duties, but who still do not see their needs met, who still do not see their objectives met. Ben Jonson said that where there is no hope there can be no effort. And that's right. We, from this Parliament, have to help so that young people can fulfill their dreams, so that young people can achieve their goals. And that must be our goal, eliminating frustration and turning it into opportunities, eliminating frustration and turning it into solutions. That is our work as parliamentarians. I'm going to expose a number of problems that you know well. I do not want to bore him in a debate on figures, so I have brought his own figures; I am not going to go with other data that can lead to error, so that we do not believe that I will use the figures, in this case, for the own benefit of this parliamentary group, but on the contrary: we will go, throughout this inquiry and the corresponding reply, with the figures that you, your department and which government departments have provided us. Of course, youth unemployment is a fundamental aspect. Within the concerns of young people, in those figures you collect, from sixteen to twenty-nine years there is an unemployment rate of 28,3_per_cent, which is further accentuated if we shorten the deadlines between sixteen and twenty-four years, where we are at a rate of 39_per_cent. To compare that with the rest of the European Union, which moves around 19_per_cent average..., already bleeding cases, such as Germany, with only 7.1, or Denmark, with 11. The most worrying aspect of the unemployment situation is also the temporary nature of contracts. We find a high number of temporary contracts, clinex contracts, contracts that are ultimately to use and pull, garbage contracts that occupy more than 46,2_per_cent. What happens as a result of these contracts? That, on the one hand, young people cannot form themselves throughout their jobs, because they constantly change jobs – those who find jobs – and, on the other hand, it is difficult for someone to plan their life, personal life, and professional life, of course, when they are constantly changing jobs. We, in that line, have proposals; we would like to know what theirs are. We have proposals on recruitment. Some go beyond the autonomy, I recognize it, but others believe that they can be important and that they can help to improve this precarious situation, such as the stable contract, where those companies that hire more indefinite are rewarded with bonuses and those that fire more are punished, those who abuse temporary contracts are punished. We are also concerned about the situation of entrepreneurs, because entrepreneurs, according to a news published these days in Catalonia..., 46_per_cent of young people want to create their own company as a way and as an option for the future. But in Catalonia entrepreneurs, in addition to fighting against the market, against competition, against banks, have to do so also against bureaucracy, against a bureaucracy that often oppresses. We would like to know what will also be done in the field of entrepreneurship, what will be done in the field of entrepreneurs, how will be helped to train these entrepreneurs... Because, in other countries..., for example, in the UK, 500,000 students between fourteen and sixteen years old, at very young ages, practice with entrepreneurs; it also happens in Germany, where 40,000 students have founded their own companies and start-ups. We would also like to know, in terms of entrepreneurship, what will be done. Another concern we are particularly concerned about – because I am convinced that many of us have friends, family members who are in this situation – is the young people who are going abroad; it is the young people who are going abroad not because they want to find opportunities because they are left here, but quite the contrary: they are going abroad because they do not have opportunities here; in short, they are obliged to go to another country to look for a job. It is worrying the way out, but it is also worrying the return, because many young people do not come back and we lose that talent; a talent that is wasted in other countries and that after that we cannot resume to benefit our system as well. Of course, all this is closely linked to training, and training plays a key role in these studies. You talk about increasing the training of young people because many, the result of the crisis, have studied or are being trained more because they do not find work; but we believe that this is a patch, it must be the other way around: young people must be trained to have better access to the world of work. I would also like to know, in terms of training, what is being done. We have proposals, proposals for reorienting training resources, because there are many times that we have many graduates but after that they do not have a job to access. We'd like to..., what do you think about that. Of course, English. English, some say it is the language of the future, but English is the language of the present. As you well know, we have a system and a proposal for a trilingual system, because we understand that English, today, has ceased to be an obligation to be a requirement in each or the vast majority of the jobs that our young people want to access. Therefore, I would also like to know, in the field of foreign languages..., where also in those reports it is emphasized that we are following the queue of the main countries of Europe. And allow me one last point..., we could talk about a lot more, but then in the motion I am convinced that we will have time to develop it. But I am also concerned about political participation, which is an issue that you too have included in these studies. And it is that many young people have disconnected from politics; in fact, there is a data that is very significant, and that is that in 2006 it was a 52,9_per_cent, the satisfaction of young people with politics, and today it is only an 11_per_cent. In other words, disinterest in the political system has diminished. I imagine that in that they have a lot to do with the old parties, I imagine that in that it has a lot to do with corruption, it has a lot to do with the immobility of many. But I also think we have to self-criticise everyone and try to turn it around, because there is an encouraging fact in this regard, that 52_per_cent of young people in Catalonia believe that they can influence politics, believe that they can take a step forward and influence politics, and in 2012 it was only 39_per_cent; that is, it has risen a lot in recent years. I imagine the new games have a lot to do with that. But, in any case, I believe that those who were born into democracy must be at least equal to those who brought democracy to us; I believe that those who were born into democracy must be at least equal to those brave men and women who thought more of their children than of themselves. We have to get what among all of us, and especially those of us who are new, we have even more responsibility, because the bar is much higher. I would also like to know what your plans are to try to turn back those figures, which are very unencouraging. Of course, being young – I recognize this – does not give a passport to anything, it does not guarantee anything in politics, but we are convinced that if in companies and in the main jobs they have entered young people, then why not? , we can also do that in politics. In any case, I would like to conclude that..., most of the problems that I have exposed, there are so many more, I leave myself, sure, many in the tinker, but I would like to know your position on them. Because failure is part of life, Steve Jobs said it in a speech at Stanford saying that "the best thing that happened to me is that I got kicked out of Apple, then I was able to go back to Apple and now it's valued at 2,000_million and has four_ thousand employees. Because we can all fail, we can all fall, but young people also have the right to start and the right to be able to lift us up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.266.0	Counselor Ms. Pains Bassa responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.267.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr Fernando Tomás, Member of Parliament. First of all, to say that it was clear to me that today there was an inquiry to appear to the Government on young people when we, like the Government, asked for the appearance of myself as the Councilwoman and of the Director General of Youth to the Follow-up Committee, which today also finds here, therefore, the greeting directly from here, in a apparition when the Commission was not formed yet, therefore, asked for its own. Yesterday he did the commission. We were going to compare and all that you asked here was explain it yesterday... and explained it. Therefore, I understand that I am not alone on account of the fact that I am asking the question today, but on account of the fact that I do not have coordination in your group, that the people who participated in the appearance yesterday did not explain all these issues to you. I suppose they gave him the document or downloaded it, because that document we gave him yesterday too. Anyway, despite that, I appreciate it. It is true that he has... that he has done a good job, that it is not the vehemence that there was in the previous inquiry. Therefore, I would like to thank him for all of this, that..., I will agree with you for the purpose agreements that we are asking for and we are in the same line: we need to eliminate frustration, as you said very well, and get dreams. And here's where we're working like the government. We want to fight the inequalities that our young people have so as to guarantee equal opportunities, which is what they deserve, and the younger collection above all else. We have to go through – and we explained this very well yesterday – what are the welfare measures for young people to be able to move to more structural interventions, more able to devise social and youth inclusion plans, and, therefore, to move to what are structural measures for young people. And that's why we announced yesterday five pilot projects, projects of the same trajectory that had taken place back from the young formula that we have now integrated into the Youth Guarantee, which allow us to advance on these themes. You're talking about the weather, and it's true that the youth's weather is very high: a 28,3_per_cent. He'll do a lot of work when his group enters the Spanish State, when the youth is 50_per_cent there. So we're not happy that it's a 28_per_cent, we're working on it. But the data that you have donated from Europe..., also can give the data from Spain, which, therefore, as I said, is a 50_per_cent, and has neglected to say it. Precarious on the job, and so much! And we have defended it above all else. That's why, like the government, we were going to reorganize. The department has jobs and social issues together with young people, because we consider it an opportunity for work to be the best social policy. For this reason, yesterday, when we gave the data today, we said that we had broken the wall of the 500,000 people there – so, lower – but that we had not yet broken the wall of precariousness, and we would work because this is possible. As you know very well, since the department the youth policies we carry to term have a phonenal paper, but above all, a cross-cutting and interdepartmental paper. Therefore, what we do is lead coordination with all departments. And, as I said, bonding with work is very important. We have two very important tools: the national youth emancipation network and the programme of the Occupational Service of Catalonia, the programme of the SOC, which must allow us to make a change in young people's policies. We must allow ourselves to work there directly, and, therefore, to design youth policies on the themes of work and on the themes, directly, that go to them. We explained today that we will support the diagnosis and design of young policies from the 2017 Youth Survey. As you know, these have been done every four years; the last one was in the middle of a crisis, and with the data we have from 2012, we think it is important now that this tell us whether we have reversed the data we had during this time or whether we really need a deeper policy. You talked about the young people's return. Now, look, we're telling you clearly yesterday, and we've been talking a lot about this: the best return policy is work policy. And that's why the department also had this relationship with work. But yesterday we explained it: we want to turn the themes. We were explaining what was on the MónCat platform, that if they go in there now there's nothing to see with what was there five months ago. If for a long time the website MónCat was destined for the fact that young people have information from outside, now it does not only have this information, but also that what it has, is also what possibilities there is to return. We explained that this platform so powerful would help us promote the return of young people, because we firmly believe that this is human capital, that this is talent that must return to our country, because what we want is to make a new country and we need the talent of all those people who have left – who have left – to study, to work, and to return and to bring this new energy to continue strengthening and being able to continue with the idea of being a new country..., a new country that is clear, well sincere and a new country with the opportunities of all young people. But we didn't just ask that, but we explained that there was the Catalan and Catalan Register residing in the foreigner, which would help us to make an important network. We were talking about Pla for international mobility. We are talking, at last, about those points that we need to work in front of and all the points of developing the Youth Guarantee, in which 25,000 people – young people, in this case – have already registered, of which 19,000 have benefited from some program, and 6,212, at these times, have a job thanks to the Youth Guarantee. Participation. You're talking about political participation. So much! And yesterday we also explained it to the committee. One of the important issues, precisely, is the relationship with the National Youth Council, and we say that we have to get into the political debate that we have at these times in our country, because we believe that the young people are the ones who have to get into the country, they are the ones who have to get into the debate, and a platform that has more than a hundred youth entities is a board that we can bring to it and that we can be interlocutors, because they are the ones who have to tell us the country that we want, the country that we want to be, because, from now on, and as we said at first, between 50 percent and 28 percent of the time, I understand that the young people know very well where they are. Thank you, and we will continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.268.0	The word "Mr. Fernando de Páramo".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.269.0	Well, thank you, Madam President. Madam Counselor, I said it at the beginning of my speech, of my appearance. I said: you know how the parliamentary dynamic works, this was presented earlier. In any case, you have an obligation to appear, you are a counselor; if you don't like to appear, stop being a counselor. And on the question of interpellation, I also said this at first: let us try a constructive tone, let us put aside the sides, let us put aside the ideology. I have been able, for ten_minutes of my speech, not to speak at any time, nor at any time to take the independence debate out. It has cost me, I recognize it, but I have been able, in ten_minutes, not to use the independence debate as an argument of force. You, who have been less time, have not been able. It is the difference: that when we try to talk about real problems..., that we all have, I insist. [[Greetings.]] And I've tried, and it's been the object because the easy criticism is that we're just talking about it. And I tried, I think I got it. And that has been the object of this inquiry. You, no; you're back to the usual excuses. Now you're making me talk about this. We want opportunities, not excuses. It's very easy. And I know you explained it yesterday. But, in any case, I insist: they always return to the usual monotheme. We're talking about young people, how we can help. We will have differences, of course: left, right, centre; but in any case, proposals to improve the situation. No, we're leaving and the first thing you tell me is that I don't talk about the data from the rest of Spain, when I'm talking about Denmark and Germany. And when I recognize you, without any problem, because we do not govern Spain, yet, that we are not to blame for that 50_per_cent. And I admit it, I have no problem saying it. I have made references to other countries, where the difference is more bloody. With that intention. You, no; you believe that I have come out here with the intention of ridiculing Catalonia and exalting the goods of the rest of Spain, when we have not yet done anything in the Government of Spain. In any case, as I said, I miss self-criticism. I have come with figures, I have tried to be as neutral as possible, I have come with your figures, because there are other figures, but I have come with those carried out by the government. I have come up with the figures that you publish, the same figures that you, yesterday, set out in that committee, that I know the content perfectly well because I have done my job. Yes, there's coordination. I know that Parliament has been very pleased to be involved in the coordination of the other groups lately. In ours, there is that coordination and I have spoken with my colleagues to prepare this inquiry, throughout yesterday and today. In any case, I miss self-criticism. I imagine something we'll be doing wrong. You guys are going to be doing something wrong. And it's the first stone to build something. And it's recognizing the mistakes you make and how we can improve. And that hand is still extended to know and for you to explain to us at what points we can improve. I insist: disappointment, on the part of this Member, because the object of this inquiry was very far away, I can assure you, that we entered into an ideological debate, that we entered into a debate on independence. It was a proposal, an inquiry and for the consequent motion, to talk about the problems of young people. But you don't care much about young people's problems. In fact, there are many young people who since you talk about the independence debate have already stopped being young and become old. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.270.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.271.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Congressman, I think... I don't know if he didn't understand me, I didn't say the word "independent," you said it seven times. With... [[Funnel veils]] , yes, more..., new country, and as long as we fly to new country – and as long as we fly to new country! And that's what I promise you, not just me, but a lot of people from Catalonia. We want a new country, precisely, because young people have work, as I said. We want a new country because the young people feel raised. We want a new country because we're all still recognizable and because the rights are for everyone. And that there is no inequality, that there is no corruption, as you very well said, and that there are no old fears that were given in principle. You're talking to me about what we're thinking of doing. And I said so. Listen, I did compare yesterday, and it's my obligation, but it's not my obligation to do it before the commission that I did, or even before I asked for it. And we wanted to volunteer. So, I think there's a difference here, but it's the same, I'd just miss it! That's why I'm here, and I'm very proud to be an advisor to my country and to be able to do this stage that, precisely, you don't take into account, but we do. I support the local world. One of the most important points we're working on. If you have given data, I will also give it away. Local youth plans: 505 local youth plans. In municipalities of less than 3,000 inhabitants: 48 local youth plans. Therefore, 553 local youth plans, which means that from the territory we arrive at everything and that young people can hold direct points in their municipalities so that they can pull forward, so that they can have the need of what they want to say. You were talking about political participation. I did not speak of independence; I spoke of how to make political participation. I have been explaining to you the national council, in which we are interlocutors, that there are one hundred and two entities, that we will bring the debate from which country we want to the council and that we will talk. But from which country we want to talk about education, we want to talk about work, we want to talk about problems, we want to talk about everything there is. I've told you this word that you brought back day after day. I explained to him the 2017 Youth Survey; I explained to him the question that is done to municipalities about youth; I can talk to him about the Catalan Youth Agency, what we are doing, the national network of hostels, that young people have much to see, which, therefore, will be a new social tourism camp. I can tell you about more than 50 percent of the young book's implementation, a very important tool that goes up, as I said, to more than 50 percent of young people in our country; the social impulse that we give you. I can explain to you the plans of prevention of male violence in young people, which yesterday we were going to be commenting on; of the working groups that we have with teenagers. And I can talk to him, above all, about this issue of return that we were giving to the principle, this promotion of return, which is concrete in different measures. Yesterday we also explained to them one by one: to facilitate access for the entrepreneur to professional profiles that reside abroad and that have the will to return; to facilitate participation by the residents of abroad in the processes that we are completing in Catalonia; to facilitate job opportunities in the field of research; the design of initiatives and information resources to support mobility; to facilitate the implementation of entrepreneurial projects, which you commented, and many other themes. Of all, there were points for and critical points, as it couldn't be otherwise, but yesterday we were going to degenerate them one by one. And so, today I think that in five minutes, or in two minutes, I can't pull it all off. But I can tell you that there is a great letter of service on the subject as much of a youth guarantee as in the youth network; I can tell you that strengthening young people's employability and professional skills is one of the priorities, and I can tell you that the activation of young people who are not occupied or integrated into the education and training system will be one of the second priorities. So, I'll talk to him about education, I'll talk about work, I've talked to him about all the issues that I think young people are interested in, and especially, in business, not only the apartment in the Youth Guarantee, but we do actions from the Department of Social Economy, directly to young people. And, as you know, the SOC can't get out of the call that doesn't take into account the 25_per_cent it's destined for young people because they can integrate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-06-1301.272.0	They suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine.
