ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning, deputies and deputies. [[Ask the Government about military maneuvers to Collserola]] [[310-00091/11]] First question to the government about the military maneuvers to Collserola. The question is posed by Mrs Gabriela Serra, from the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.2.0	Good morning, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Since 2011, the maneuvers carried out by the military quarterships in the Bruc barracks, in the Collserola Natural Park, raise complaints from various collections, schools, veins, veins, of the surrounding villages. Already in 2012, the Collserola Consortium voted for an agreement to refuse the army to carry out armed manoeuvres, stating that it did not reduce the complaints and polemics that go beyond the use of weapons and that question the same military presence in the park. Up to thirteen schools in the district of Sarrià - Sant Gervasi, in Barcelona, have come to present complaints because, in the end, the maneuvers are carried out in lectual hours and their activity has intensified. The addresses of these centres have shown the difficulty of transmitting education in non-violence and of respecting nature when military maneuvers are taking place. There has been the village of Sant Cugat del Vallès since 2011, which has rejected these maneuvers and has demanded that the demilitarized nature park be declared. Sant Feliu de Llobregat, Molins de Rei, Cerdanyola del Vallès and Esplugues de Llobregat have followed the same path. Finally, the Presidential Commission, Rights of Citizens, Participation and Security of the Barcelona Assembly, on 23 March enguany approved a proposal against military maneuvers at Collserola Park, which was approved for all groups except Ciutadan and the PP. Our question is easy and simple. Catalonia we want to be a country of pau, a country that can deal with conflicts in another way, we do not participate in the idea that follows..., that these activities serve to fight against..., and combat Gihadist terrorism and any threat, as has been said by the armed forces. And, therefore, the question is: what is the position of the Government of the Generality respecting military maneuvers? Do you intend to declare Collserola Park as a demilitarized zone by taking advantage of your ability to regulate the activities that are carried out in the park? And also, and lastly, can, by taking advantage of the current rules, prohibit military manoeuvres that take place in Collserola? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.3.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply by Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.4.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, thank you very much for the question and reflection and allow us to start by saying that we absolutely share the reflection you have made, that it is more the same as many municipalities, many centres, many entities and that it is the principle for which many and many of us understand that we need to build a new society and a better society. Indeed, the culture of war, the culture of militarism is not, at all, one of the priorities, nor is it that this government has or that this society, and it is more, absolutely anachronistic. For what he does to specific tests or exhibitions, at last, of a certain prepotency and wisdom, because there is no other term to qualify it, from the army to Collserola, I believe that the answers given at the institutional level are diverse, they are clear, they are strong, and it is the same as this government supports, because it has no sense. Because, besides, it has nothing to do with democracy or freedom. It is a demonstration of strength absolutely, I repeat it, anachronistic, unnecessary and in many aspects, even, counterproductive. Therefore, the decision is the same as other municipalities, other entities: it does not fit, if it is known by active and passive and, in the measure of the possibilities that this Government has, the repeated will that this is not repeated is firm, constant and we continually manifest it in all areas that we can do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.5.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about health policy]] [[310-00082/11]] According to question to the Government, on health policy, formulated for Mr Jorge Soler, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.6.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Comín, a few days ago, in one of my interventions, showed him that there was a great list of waiting in Catalonia to be visited at public hospitals. How is the subject, what exactly has he done to fix it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.7.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.8.0	Good morning, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, as you know, what this government has done is to present an integral plan of improvement of the waiting lists, which was the object of an official press wheel of the Health Department, which occupied two hours, at length of which we explained in detail which are the contents of this plan. If you want, you can return the press wheel that is stuck to the Department's website and there you have all the contents of this plan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.9.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The deputy's in charge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.10.0	Thank you. Counselor Comín, today I bring new evidence on the waiting list to Catalonia and the situation is clearly worse and alarming. Miri, the late Dieus passed, before his visit to the Arnau de Vilanova, the professionals refit this post: « Hello. Tomorrow morning we will visit the Councillor of Salut, Antoni Comín. That's why we're asking you to prepare for the visit and to romgue with the inn coat, please. Many thanks for your cooperation. [[Rialles.]] Clear, counselor, just the same day El Punt Avui told us: "You have to transfer patients to Salt because the urge of the Trueta is col·lapsen. One thing and a novelty, therefore, that the professionals denounce to daily: this col·lapse. Counselor, a large patient, therefore, waiting for hematology, reply this letter, I quote textually, I read it: "We have received the request for the first medical visit of hematology. Due to the number of requests and the priority assigned, we cannot meet your request in the short term, for which thing will be registered on the waiting list. The moment we can schedule your request, we'll let you know. Segre, the next day of his visit: « The waiting list for geriatrics in Lleida increases by 50_per_cent in one year, today it rises to 1,822 elderly people. But there are still worse things, counselor. Miri, I'll explain the case to you: a patient – great too –, with a lot of pain and functional impotence in the bed. His meth sends him to trauma and six months later, his meth, without having been visited by the patient, this mail – counselor, I read again, literally –: "You don't need to visit the trauma. Give them amitriptyline for the paresthesias. That is to say, virtually, without a visit, our patients are immune to depression. Next, another patient – lumbar pain, resulting from trauma – and answer them in the same line. « It is treated with antidepressant type amitriptyline, it is pain by somatization or functional pathology. You're saying, poor people, aren't you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, counselor – yes. I continue to advise: patient, seventy-nine years, to send it for a problem to the eye because you don't see it, huh? Administration's Answer: "Send to your doctor at the head. You don't have to visit. Next visit, also the printed port – patient who does not see it –: « Send to the doctor at the head. Third visit, and so in port of succession: « Patient with pain in the eye, refer to his doctor, does not proceed the visit. Counselor, that's what's going on. You can present the press wheels you want, but this is not a clear evidence. Terrassa Hospital. People are going to ask for a visit to the trauma – I also have a written one –: « 12 of 2017's generation, counselor. I continue: « Visit to the Otorino, October 9, 2017. Well, I won't read all the visits I have, but I have many...; one that surprised me too: « Vascular surgery, May 2017. Ophthalmology, June 2019. Urology... ; that is to say, problems that are not solved, counselor. To fix this, counselor, don't talk about assumptions. [[Widow's remorse.]] Announcement today the presentation of a law to address this issue. There is an indecent waiting list and resources are not being properly managed. I don't allow you to refuse visits without the patient's attention. Medicine is either human or it won't be medicine. And that's also his question. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.11.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Counselor responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.12.0	I will not go into these cases, because they are criteria of care, and I suppose you trust the good work of the medical professionals of our country, I imagine you will not question it. But that's not the problem. Mr President, the problem is that yesterday, in this Parliament, there was a mass of people who precisely forgot the 150,000 Catalans who are waiting for a diagnostic test and the 600,000 Catalans who in this... [[Strong remorse of the eyes. Greetings.]] Mass of people in this Parliament has forgotten the 600,000 Catalans who are...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.13.0	Please... – please – respect the word tower.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.14.0	...waiting, precisely, a visit to the specialist. And by the way, you... [[the remorse of the voice persists]] Yes, yes, yes, you check and I agree in the place where you check, but you too will forget about these Catalans – you will also forget about them. And I'll tell you one thing, all over the Pla de migliora of hope lists that don't fall under the premise, we'll do it. We'll do everything we say about the transparency and empowerment of the city. All this will do, we will do everything we have explained in terms of the proactivity of the health system, of being the system that manages the waiting list of people and does not have to be the only ones that have to be managed. But there's one thing we can't do, which is reduce waiting time... [[For technical reasons, some words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ... because the assumption of the year 2017 provided for 30,000 more tests, Mr. MP, which would have allowed us to reduce the wait from 71 to 35 days. And it provided for 300,000 more visits to the specialist, who would have allowed us to reduce from 163 days to 82 days the waiting time of the people waiting for a first external consultation visit. And that's very hard – and that's very hard. But, despite the fact that there is no presumption, no presumption, without presumption or without, our commitment to the right to the salvation of the citizens is unnegotiable, it is unchangeable. That's incontrovertible. And, therefore, all the better management that can be done, with which we are already working at these times, all the better circuit that can be done at those times that we are already working at these times, that allow us to reduce the waiting time, or that it is in one day– or that it is in one day– these we will do. Because the right to the salvation of our citizens is indisputable, and if we can't reduce, because we don't have the money, the waiting time in half, as at least we will in one day, because we, the honourable Member, have come to rule. The government wants to work for the well-being of our citizens and our citizens. That's what we came here to do. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.15.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about social policies]] [[310-00088/11]] Third question to the Government, on social policies. The question is posed by Mrs Naomi de la Calle, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.16.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, regardless of whether we are all aware of the lack of sensitivity and interest of the People's Party Government in reversing the underfunding of the Dependency Act, and that this is one of the reasons for the current situation of dependents, the question is: What does the Government of the Generalitat intend to do to improve the situation of dependents and their families?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.17.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.18.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman, this question went very well today, to tell you that we could have done a lot and a lot today to reduce the waiting lists of dependency. [[Rialles, some applause and remorse.]] 1,500 seats – 1,500 seats. The money that carries this, went to Montoro's butxaques. For this reason, 1,500 people will be left unadvanced in the Law of Dependency. Despite this, we will do and continue to work, as the counselor said before, because our duty and our commitment is to govern and improve the welfare of people, with dependence or without. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.19.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.20.0	I mean, the previous budgets that Squerra and Convergence approved weren't important to people or... [[Widow's remorse.]] Counsellor, look, I asked you this question because here are two lines of improvement that depend on the Generalitat itself. One is management and the other is budget. On the one hand, let us remember that the Dependency Act gives us full competence in the management of services and resources and we are dependent on them in the management. The Sindico de Greuges has found that the system of consultation of the benefits is not being guaranteed; there are no objective and public guidelines in the criteria for prioritization of the waiting lists; that decisions before a request are not being properly reasoned; and that the explanations of his counsel before a denial of a benefit are insufficient. That is, the syndic is warning them that they are managing the applications in a way that, at least, can generate suspicions of arbitrariness. This is very serious, because when there are few resources, the worst thing a citizen who has a close family member can feel is that they don't give him any help that he does. Solving this does not depend on any budget and you have not yet taken any steps to resolve it. Therefore, from Ciutadans, we have prepared a bill to avoid reported bad practices, provide transparency to the process and improve the service provided to one of the most vulnerable sectors of society. On the other hand, the budgetary question. Yesterday we tried to sell the bike of the most social budgets of history, budgets that casually cut more than 27_million_of_euro in economic benefits linked to the dependency of non-professional caregivers and personal assistance. There are eight_1,000 empty residential spaces and cutting in PEVS will not help to decrease the current waiting list of twenty_1,000 people. You have intended to cut in dependence, how were we going to approve that budget? Stop playing lego, stop giving excuses and solve citizens' problems: less embassies and more protection for people, less tax agencies and more beneficiaries. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Answer the councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.22.0	Thank you, President. Member of the Commission, I have already said to him: 1,500 places is what was in our presuppositions for dependence. But, despite this, I will tell you: 142,000 people enjoy the Law of Dependency; this means 180,000 benefits, 90,000 in servants and 83,000 in caregivers. It's true that we could do more, but, listen, we've stopped paying 336 million euros in the last few years by the state. We are supporting 82_percent of the expenditure dependent on the 17_percent of the state government, when the LAPAD said it was to be 50_percent and 50_percent. And, as I said the day we took over the new government, which, therefore, we took possession of, the former councillor who had to do it is of the stones to pull 'npans. That's what we'll keep doing. However, apart from this, we are also dealing with or proceeding with the new Catalan law, which means strengthening the care network, providing personalized and close attention to home, with territorial balance; coordinating the basic itineraries of social services and unifying the health and social resources so that community work and shared clinical history follow what we can do to advance; therefore, overcoming this Spanish Law 39/2006, which serves us for a very short time, but above all strengthening the Social Services Law 12/2007 and setting aside the gear that is the Catalan Social Protection Agency, which is what we need to strengthen the Social Services Law and to make a public welfare policy system. That's what we're gonna do and that's what he's gonna have. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.23.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the natural parks and the celebration of the 15th anniversary of the Natural Park of the Ports]] [[310-00083/11]] Fourth question to the Government, about the natural parks and the celebration of the fifteenth anniversary of the Natural Park of the Ports. The question is posed by Mrs Hortènsia Grau, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.24.0	Counselor, you say you want to be the advisor to Medi Ambient, a department that still doesn't exist in this government, despite your skills: biodiversity protection, natural parks. This month we celebrate the fifteen years of the nature park. There was a unanimous coroner of the mayors of the area to reverse the detail of the brigade and economic staff. But on Tuesday, the GEPEC filed a complaint with the prosecution for some such that there were awards to say and that they caused a plague; we are talking about prevention, barely using public money and environmental crime in a natural park. What do you plan to do with your department's respect?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.25.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.26.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member of Parliament, you made a first statement, saying: "Natural parks have suffered from very severe detail, and we wanted to reverse them. Yesterday we had an excellent opportunity to reverse them. [[Someone laughed.]] Yesterday, the assumptions that were... [[Widow's remorse.]] No, of course, I don't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.27.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.28.0	Using Hebrew terminology: « We do not dream, we do not dream. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.29.0	Respect the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.30.0	No, we had an excellent opportunity today. We're just, we're not so conscious... and you know that when I showed up to the committee, I said that our priority would be to manage natural parks, to replenish resources. The assumptions that we presented here today represented doubling resources in relation to what had been transferred to us by the Agriculture Department at its time, and it simply prevented it from doing so. And this is especially difficult, not just for the Natural Park of the Ports, but for the conjunction of the natural parks. First element. Second, we are aware that there is this complaint. From here, the Department of Agriculture, which is responsible in the field of forests, has opened an information dispatcher to determine what has happened and act with all the consequences. And if there's been any irregularities, no doubt about it, this government won't shake his wrist.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.31.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.32.0	Counselor, the one I ask you do not rely on the presuppositional debate, which I will not go into now on who were the parties of the natural environment. We're talking about some very hard parts. Adjudicate to say 20_hectares– 20_hectares– in protected forest area. The company Monroyo SA, which has a marine web history in Castelló, in contravention of the park directive, leaves the stem carved for more than a year and causes the plague of the scrubber, which makes more trees pose ills, and then Catalan Forest re-acquisition to say more 10_hectares. I mean, we're talking about a very hard case, but do you know what's hard? That in 2014 the councillor Pelegrí crossed the competitions that the natural parks had in managing forest to Catalan Forest with this idea that the forest was a machine of making money. What I'm asking is that you take on the skills, go back to asking for the transfer of forest management from the parks to the parks, and that you assume to preserve the biodiversity of the parks and change the mindset. And we make it clear what's going on with forest issues, that there's a lot of finance here, that there's a lot of dark years here, that there's a lot of interest in certain people here, and we need to put my, like we put my, lights and stenographers on other issues, because they're a lot of public money and because you're not responsible, so much that the competition is at the Forestry Directorate General. And that's what I'm asking: if it's committed to assuming that the forest management skills of protected forests, of unique forests, of parks, come back to the hands of whom you're environmentally competent and are not in the Forestry Directorate General. And they also ask if it is compromised, even if there are no presuppositions, to return – to return – progressively the staff that is taking care of the parks, which, in the case of the Natural Park of the Ports, we went from twelve people to seven people, and if they improve the financing and look for a model of governance. And if they're done with the PRUG, the use plan. The plan of uses does not depend on the presupposition, depends on the will.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.33.0	Congresswoman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.34.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.35.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Counselor responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.36.0	Yes, thank you, President. Allow me, it's unaudited, huh? So, we don't have assumptions, we ask ourselves more personally to be able to manage the Ports better, but we don't have assumptions, and it's an irrelevant, minor issue. It's not a minor issue – it's not a minor issue – and today you've put the saying – the saying, the saying – to the line. It's not a minor issue, we can't have a member of the Catalonian Group.Yes, she can, today, with good faith, with good predisposition, she says: "The fact that we don't have any assumptions..., but you increase the staffing. That's what we planned to do, and that's what you guys were preventing us from doing yesterday. And that's a tough problem, and there's some real responsibility. And, according to the question, Mrs. Hortênsia Grau refers to the eight years in which, from the Ports, with a pilot experience that was very powerful, she did the direct management of forest activity in the natural park. This worked very well – it worked very well. Now, what's our idea with the Department of Agriculture? We need to be able to share criteria, some general criteria in the country as a whole, but we want to reassess the possibility of natural parks being able to manage this directly. Shared criteria, coordination and direct management by natural parks. This is the scheme on which we are moving, and we consider that it is a reasonable and positive scheme and that helps us to work better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.37.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the C-32 motorway at the foot of Maresme]] [[310-00087/11]] Five questions to the Government, about the C-32 motorway at the foot of the Maresme. The question is posed by Mr Jordi Terrades of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.38.0	Thank you, President. With permission of the new premise and waiting to see where Councilman Rull will place us the advertising falcon that we have no assumptions, I want to ask him about the tolls. At the last session of control this theme has already come out. I'm not going to go into any of the adjectives that came out in the previous control session. You took advantage of all the ways to add to the June 26 announcement, which we have here at the side, and announced that those motorways that are owned by the Generality, the C-33 and the C-32 at its own pace for the Maresme, would not extend concessions to the current concessionaries. I also want to ask him about the small letter of the concession agreements, don't I? Do you still support the Government's idea of extending the C-32 to Lloret? How do you intend to compensate the Invicat dealership? You also know that in order to homogenize the cost of the tolls since 2014 it was established to implement a new closed toll system, a sequence of bonuses both to the C-32 and to the C-33. The Generalitat has already assessed, if at the end of the concession, August 2021, the costs of the concession have not been rebalanced, as they have analyzed? How do you think you're going to deal with this expense? Will the announcement also involve the removal of barriers? How does the government think or what does the government intend to propose to keep these lives? Because of the users? Because of the generality's assumptions? – not 2017's, obviously, but 2021's. What does the government plan to do? Will you explain the little letter to us?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.39.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.40.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thank him for the terms he has put forward, because precisely the small letter is absolutely relevant to this subject. And I agree with this idea that we do not want to enlarge the year 2021, if we have the capacity to make decisions in this sense, we do not want to extend the concession for a very basic, very simple reason: because we want to have all freedom – all freedom – without any apprehensions, without saying, let us say, elements that hold us, in order to define a Catalan strategy of management of high-capacity, high-capacity lives. To hear 'us, of the highways and highways of our country. If we now say that we have extended this concession, we do not have the capacity to draw this scheme. Who do we want you to do it? Do we want the government to do it? Do we want Parliament to do that? Do we want the local world to do it? Entities of all kinds, economics, trade unions? This is very uplifting, seeing what happens to other countries of the world, as they manage. Because maintaining these high-capacity lives has a cost, and a high cost. And so, we need to see what a harmonic model, what a homogeneous model we can do, and that it is not contaminated by this terrible weight that Catalonia suffers from respect for the rest of the State. We want to decide for ourselves. And I answer the following question: yes, we want to extend the C-32 to Lloret, practically at the limit of Tossa. How do we want to manage it? So, you know there are three mechanisms to be able to finance it. This is a different payment system. There are three mechanisms: through the induced transit, and if it has not been generated sufficiently induced until the year 2021, we have two options; one discard, which is to extend the concession; the other is to make presuppositional payments, and for this reason we are already making provision for resources so that, at the moment, we can proceed to the payment, let us say, of this different payment. You think in Catalonia, from toes to shadows, there's a lot. And, in this concrete case, we would consider it reasonable to do so in those terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.41.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.42.0	Yes, I told him that he took advantage, therefore, of the fortune that June 26 is a good time to make announcements, to make this announcement in his parliamentary office, but it was oblivious of something that, for us, is fundamental, and that they agreed that, like at least his predecessor, he had acquired: that when he made announcements respect the C-32 at his own pace for the Maresme, the Maresme Mobility Commission would be informed, which was not so. Neither was the mayor of Mollet de Vallès and the most clean mayors at the barrier of La Lagousta. And more importantly, the toll crew has not been informed. I invite you to discuss this issue, to agree on these issues, to convene the toll group, because the various parliamentary formations, as well as the committees of mobility, can tell you theirs in this project that I believe is country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.43.0	Congressman, you've run out of time. Thank you very much, Congressman. Counselor responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.44.0	Thank you, Madam President. He knows that the toll groups are creating each legislature with a concrete resolution, legislature by legislature. Do you propose the possibility of creating it in this legislature? I'll take the word for it. Come on, let's do it. I urge, from the government, the parliamentary groups to agree precisely a resolution that allows us to create this toll-working group, because we want to do it folded, and we want a vision, let's say, strategic, country, in relation to high-capacity lives. I take the word for it, and therefore, we will gather immediately..., which is formed by this Parliament's part of this group of toll jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.45.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about actions to move forward in the hourly reform]] [[310-00084/11]] Sisena asks the government, about the actions to advance in the hourly reform. The question is posed by Mr Fabian Mohedano, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.46.0	I've pitched the voting button. [[Rialles.]] President, I am pleased that we are talking about this. Thanks for the work done so far, to get to where we have reached in the change of hours in this function of Parliament. Councillor Munté, in Carles Capdevila, the diluns, in the march of the week of the timetables, told us that until now there had been a lot of people resigned with the timetables they had and that since a while ago there has been a substantial change, because there is enough hope that we can make a significant change. Any political reform requires legislation, concertation and, above all, a lot of pedagogy. In legislation we already work in a very transversal way here in Parliament. I would like to say that at the end of July we will have a text from which we can do parliamentary work in September. The question to the government is: what will she do in the next few months because I didn't get to play dumb, but she went along with the necessary concertation and also the awareness and pedagogy that she needs? Because there are a lot of people who don't have a clue when they're still talking about hourly reform. And, therefore, what will be the actions that will be made to arrive at the zero moment that will determine the law..., because this hourly reform is a success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.47.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.48.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member of Parliament, first of all, thank you for reminding us that this week, that so many things are going on, it is also the Week of Hours and that there have been activities in Catalonia precisely to spread the benefits of the hourly reform, advantages that we know, that are social, that are economic, that are environmental. Precisely, we gave a lot of sorties to this week of the Hours to be sold in the Advisor Council for the Hourly Reform, councillor of the Government, where the replenishment was also produced in his presidency; you passed the replenishment to Dr. Esther Sánchez. We made good on all the activities we did, and as the government committed itself to maintaining this strategy, this bet – in any case resignation, only bet – for reform and for hourly reform. What ambits? We're betting on a three-axis confluence. First, the concertation. Effectively, you said: quadrangular tables from which to establish strategies in sectors as important as the job, such as education, consumption, the oci, trade, administration, mobility, with economic and social agents, institutional, with experts, to detect the needs of these sectors and the stakes, the measures, which will have to be applied. That's one of the axes. The second is the participatory process. And here, in an absolutely coordinated way with the Department of Foreign Affairs and Institutional Relations, what we will do will be this necessary diffusion, because, as you said, so that everyone knows what the hourly reform consists of. It is a clear bet that it must be joint, that we must make among all, for a time that they are more civil, that they are beneficial from all points of view, not only from a perspective of salvation, but of fairness, also, of rights, of equipping between the rights of women and men, for example. And we have to do this together and in a consensual way. We'll make a diffusion bag. We will. We will also do this to get to know the people, to update the knowledge that we need from the government, and in this sense we will do a survey of more than a thousand people in the Catalan people to make the necessary conclusions. And from here, a pact, working in coordination with the Parliament, with you, that, effectively, work very intensely in this Law of the Hourly Reform, to achieve a national pact for the hourly reform that allows us to achieve this zero moment, the hourly reform, to the benefit of everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.49.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the measures envisaged in the Strategic Research and Innovation Plan 2016-2020]] [[310-00085/11]] Seven questions to the Government, on the measures envisaged in the Pla stratègique de recherche y innovation en salut 2016-2020. The question is posed by Mrs Magda Casamitjana, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.50.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, Councillors and Councillors, Councillor Comín, as we are here, above all, and despite everything, to make everything possible that improves the welfare state, and today, above all, the salvation of people, I begin with the question, which is: what are the measures envisaged for the government..., decided, today, yes, to govern and to realize the Strategic Research and Innovation Plan in Health 2016-2020? Adviser, the words « strategy, « plan, « search and innovation » are essential words in the context of the 21st century, above all for the construction of any future project. Pla, strategy, research and innovation are today the indispensable pillars of a solid society, the one we want, and in this case the key words for good health..., of the salvation of our country. The Accord of Government that approves the Strategic Plan for Research and Innovation in Health 2016-2020 puts back proposals, challenges, projects and priorities for the future, and goes far beyond what we have today. The plan is written with strong words and full of meaning. Actions, objectives and solutions for key moments in people's lives. And it predicts a much better future in the quality of public salvation... both scientific and human, of course... and, as always, human and humanized medicine. If I didn't, I wouldn't feel like we were shooting in. This plan is formulated and brings together important actions, such as encouraging, deploying, protecting, informing, planning and coordinating – above all, in this case with the Enterprise and Knowledge Consulting – and guaranteeing. And these actions will be done with the Government, and they will be realized through the best tools we have today in Catalonia, which are transparency, investigation, prevention, teaching, research, innovation, knowledge and effectiveness, actions and tools for very clear objectives, counselor, and now you will explain a little better to us. One: create a better, updated and modern public health services for people. Two: the implementation of new solutions to health problems through innovation and research, without ever forgetting human medicine, as it is today day by day and with little road. Three: the impulse towards a culture of salvation, a collective task, as corresponded to the 21st century, with the participation of all the citizens, all the departments and all the professionals of the Catalan health system. I four: to contribute to the European and world-wide advancements. Allow us today – I think from Junts to Yes, but also from all sides of Parliament – to congratulate and give thanks to all the Catalans who make research and innovation from the world, from home, but to touch our people. Counselor Comín, I repeat the question, because...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.51.0	He's run out of time. I don't think I repeated it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.52.0	So don't repeat it, I said it before.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.53.0	Not lime – not lime. [[Rialles.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.54.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.55.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Counselor responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.56.0	Thank you, Madam President; thank you, Congresswoman. I think the question was very clear. [[Rialles.]] Therefore, it was not necessary to repeat it. In effect, on Tuesday, the government approved the Strategic Health Research and Innovation Plan, and it is a very important plan, because for the first time we have a strategic health research and innovation plan, with everything that it supposes. We would have to explain many things, but perhaps we can summarize it in two, the most important developments that this plan supposes with regard to the research and innovation policies in health that is already being done. Two important developments: the first, which we will base our research policies on open calls, open calls to which we will be able to present the research institutes of our hospitals, primary search teams... And this ensures that our search policy moves forward on the path of transparency and merit. And that's already done. This paradigm shift, this one, we've saved, with assumptions or without. That's what we have – that's what we have. There are other important news. I insist: not only do we have specialized research institutes in our hospitals, most of them international, but also primary teams, and – and – we first incorporate nursing professionals into health research policies, which are also very important. The second big novelty, what is it? So the second great novelty that allowed this strategic plan of research and innovation in salvation was to have much more additional money to boost the search for salvation in Catalonia. Specifically, it allowed us to have €31 million, which in this area is very relevant, for the next three years. And that was actually linked to the approval of the assumptions. Therefore, researchers in search and in the salvation of our country, yesterday, those of whom depend on the future salvation of our future citizens, yesterday, lost 31_million euros. That's it - that's it. Because the call of 21_million euros that we had planned for September will not be able to do. In fact, I have to let you know that this research plan was done at a time I remember. April 5th called for the petition, with the participation of all the expert scientists and also of the patients. But as long as we don't resign, as I said before, as long as we don't resign, we'll make a summons just like that. So much so that we'll make a summons! It will not be a call of 21_million euros, no, but look if it will be possible, in September you see, to make a call, to keep the hope of our researchers; to make a call around 2_million euros that prioritizes the most central and most important objectives of the plan. Because this is...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.57.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.58.0	...an example that the government will continue to rule. No presupposition will follow. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.59.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the policy of accompliment of minors]] [[310-00089/11]] Vuitena asks the Government, about the policy of accompliment of minors. The question is posed by Ms Montserrat Vilella, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.60.0	Thank you, President. Consellera Bassa, we want to ask you about the childhood policies of this government, and in concrete terms the advice you occupy. It is obvious that guaranteeing children's rights is a priority. Take care to offer them equal opportunities because each of the children in our country can develop, be free, and be right-handed to do so by today and to do so by tomorrow. And this takes special relevancy to children and young people who have not had the chance to see these rights guaranteed for their own parents. Socially we must be able to protect them and create all the tools that are in our abyss. In the last sessions of this plenary, we have discussed this issue with all parliamentary groups. We all have the conviction that we need to prioritize childhood policies. But talking is easy, asking is easy. Demanding seems like it too. But I need to act, and I need to do it for the present, but thinking about the future, and I need to do it, as the vice president said yesterday, with the greatest ambition. I mean, I feel realistic. And the reality of a country, the reality of a government, passes by to have a premise, a concrete assumption that will make each of the infants, and those who are in a situation of more unmanagement..., condition their future decisions that we make in this chamber. We, our parliamentary group, want a country that has an independent state that can manage all the resources, just so that we can take them to the point that we can guarantee the rights of the most vulnerable people, to guarantee the rights of these children who have been left behind. But while we don't have an independent country, while we can't make assumptions and have the assumptions extended, you still have more sense, this question. The Declaration of Children's Rights indicates that family reunification is one of the best ways to ensure that children's rights, that the same biological family cannot guarantee them..., can do so with a family bond. We have the Children's Law, which also marks us, and parliamentary agreements incarcerated. And the question we're asking is, what's the government's action in acquittal policies for these kids today and tomorrow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.61.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.62.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman; as you said, government action is precisely this: hold the right of infants. And that's why we wear and we want to transform the policy of family reunification in a decisive and clear way, because it's the most important protection measure for children's rights, but it's also because it's a gesture of solidarity, a gesture of compromise on the part of families that acquit. With this idea of guaranteeing the right of children, and above all there must be no child from zero to six years in a residential boarding school, but they must be in the family..., it's where we work, just as it is in other European countries. We can, and we won't, but we can now, the family reunion. We have different measures. But this dissipation, precisely, there is a great day, a day that I invite everyone, all the Members and Members of this House, who can attend, because it is a day on « Great woman the marriage, with already three hundred registered people, more than fifty children, that is in dispute because the families have asked it and in which it will be debated, above all, this process of how the marriage must be in our country. Beyond that, there will be a second day with a technical table on June 17, where the resolutions will be taken, together with families and us. There must be, and there is, an intense work of DGAIA, the ICAA and the Directorate General of Families..., which work together. I'm already a fan, but we'll make it better. At this point, I'm saying that they're six-hundred families with accolades and more than a thousand infants. There was a proposal for family reunion, apart from accompanying morale, in which there were some benefits on some complements, some changes, which this late and tomorrow the department team will look at whether they are possible with the previous assumptions, because we did see them in our assumptions. Therefore, we need to look at whether this is one of the priorities that we can change, as we said yesterday, money from one side to the other, because there will not be any in the premise. Therefore, the government's decision is clear about a transformative act of attachment and making it a priority for all children as right of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.63.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the performance of the Mossos d'Esquadra in front of the incidents in Barcelona's Gràcia neighbourhood]] [[310-00090/11]] Ninth question, to the Government, about the performance of the Mossos d'Esquadra in the incidents of the Barcelona city of Gràcia. The question is posed by Mr Alberto Villagrasa, of the Popular Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.64.0	Thank you, President. I wanted to start my speech by condemning the attack on two women, who suffered a few days ago simply by promoting a sporting event of the Spanish team. A macho attack by five people and that some organization or parties that call themselves "feminists" did not want to condemn. Looks like there's first and second victims for them. But that's a sign of what radicals are doing in the city of Barcelona. And there I go to the neighborhood of Gracia. Obviously, from the Popular Group we support the Mossos d'Esquadra for their performance in the neighborhood of Gracia, proportionate performance; yes, proportionate to the aggressiveness and violence that have been generated by those urban terrorists who have broken the peace and tranquillity of the neighbors and merchants of Gracia. A violence that has generated about thirty mossos d'esquadra wounded, thirty mossos d'esquadra wounded because of some scoundrels who are authentic street terrorists and who act in the same way as the kale borroka of the Basque Country, and so let us hope that they will be judged. The events that have taken place these days in the district of Gracia cannot be consented to in democracy; they are fascist attitudes, close to more extreme Marxism, incompatible with democracy. And those who try to justify it would have to review their concept of plurality, freedom and what it is to be a Democrat. For all this, Mr. Counsellor, we ask you some questions and some plea. First of all, and let us hope that this time he will answer us, if the Government is going to characterise itself as an accusation for the altercations of Gracia, both to defend the wounded mossos and for the destruction of urban furniture that has occurred. Who will legally defend the neighbors and traders affected by the damage they have suffered? We ask you to continue to act with the firmness of the democratic force that gives you the law and not to lower your guard before these peace blackmailers, who function as follows: "Or I am given what I want, or I break up with everything. Peace is neither auctioned nor negotiated with the violent. And I hope, Mr Councillor, that you will continue with the investigations that are necessary to proceed with the arrests that have to be made for the acts of street violence that broke the peace of a whole neighbourhood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.65.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by Mr. Jordi Jané, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.66.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, I will give you an answer to some of the aspects you specifically asked me. He said it's unacceptable, and we all say it, and the whole government says it, and I'm convinced he has the unanimity of all of us here. We don't appreciate the aldarulles, the acts of street violence. We don't like that peaceful coexistence is over, that people can't get into a trade to buy safely because they do it by walking through those streets. Therefore, when there are hard cases in an advanced society – that we are – in a cohabitational, open country – that we are – what we obviously need, like all societies, is also police forces that in situations that are not easy to answer. We are required by society, and we must support these police forces that act... they must always act with consistency, with the sense of opportunity and proportionality, which is what the Catalonian Police Law marks for us. And you said there's 30 injured moves; no, there's 39. And there's only 12 that are low, and there's 1 plus, with a long-running low because it broke... they broke Aquil·les' heel. Therefore, here there is a damage – misdeeds –, there is also a damage..., vans, that we pay among all, of police bodies, that have remained very bad, one of them, absolutely cremated, of the municipal services of Barcelona. And obviously we're in character. You'd say if we were in character, and so much! We made it clear: if there is an injury, if there is a public good that has been affected, obviously the Government of Catalonia is a person. And I also want to take advantage of the fact that the Mosso d'Esquadra must never be subject to the political debate – now an electoral campaign is beginning – so that it is not done; so that security concerns are not barred by the mig, because at these times they are acting, they are acting with diligence; there are already 11 people investigated before three courts in Barcelona; we have 55 people who have identified the movements of the squad, and, obviously, all this, in a society as we want, must have consequences. And, therefore, we defended a peaceful coexistence, and I hope that they will find us all. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.67.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the scenes that can be opened with the results of the general elections of June 26th.]] [[317-00061/11]] Questions to the President of the Generality. Question about the political and social situation. The question is posed by Ms. Mireia Boya, from the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.68.0	Good morning, everybody. Yesterday, he made public the will to subdue the president and, therefore, the government to a question of trust; a legal instrument, of full political legitimacy, that generated a certain surprise to some, sad and disappointed others, but that we believe that we should separate from the debate of the assumptions that we had yesterday. In fact, we have already said: we feel responsible – not the only ones – but not guilty of these events, and we reiterate all the confidence that we can jointly establish the foundations of the new republic, which must be firm and eminently social. We'll redo the bridges if they're broken and do it from today. We did not agree on the rhythms of overcoming the autonomic mark or on the intensity of democratic confrontation with the State, but on other lines to perform as the processing of the three laws of disconnection and the need to initiate a process are binding. If something good could come out of yesterday's setback, just this: close the agreement on the basis of a shared full route. In fact, the tape is clear which is: it's the break with the State, and we have to play it, and we won't get there if we don't, and we won't get there if we're not convinced to change the existing political and social framework. For us, the unilateral path continues to be the priority because we see no alternative, but in these days of the campaign we will hear about everything else. What do you think of the president of the scenarios that can be opened with state elections?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.69.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.70.0	Good morning, Madam President. Madam Member, you ask me what I think of the scenarios that can be opened to the elections on the 26th. It is obvious that there are different scenes if they gain those political forces that have shown themselves to be in favour of their action and their declaration that they do not prosper in any way against Catalonia than if they gain those political options that have been committed to maintaining until the end the call for a reference to Catalonia for independence. They're different states. So, further away... said this, I can't say anything more, because we don't know who we're going to find. In any case, I would like to reiterate that the Catalan political agenda is a political agenda emancipated from the decisions that are taken in the context of the State, decisions that influence, but that decisions are taken by this Parliament, and we will take them. It's true, you're referring to the broken bridges you're talking about, but I'd like to remind you that the best bridges are those that aren't dynamite.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.71.0	Thank you very much, President. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.72.0	This legislature placed the debate in the democratic resolution, in the demands of this country without depending on a state that holds a right that systematically denies. For which we do understand that there is margin, option and path is for unilaterality: it is better to do what we need than to wait for what will not come. We have always said that we do not give up the reference, but that we do not give up unilaterality with the left of the reference. The unilateral reference, in fact, could be the synthesis for which they claim that the people express themselves and, at the same time, would be the democratic response to a state that does not tolerate the democracy of the people, obsessed with denying us their own freedom. We would be pleased if those who defend the agreed referendum, when they see that no pact is possible, would join the unilateral democratic path and do so in defense of democracy, because it will be the only way they will leave us. And we would also like to see that the forces that we have independence as in the past do not contribute to generating expectations in relation to the possibilities that can be created in the State. The CUP - Crida Constituent is reiterated in the conviction that this legislature must lay the foundations of a new country. For us, the legislature wants it to be: the disconnection, the break with the State.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.73.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.74.0	Do we pose?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.75.0	...exhausted... thank you very much. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.76.0	Thank you very much. I honestly believe that when a political group at the level of the joint of the State proposes a reference... I think we have to trust it that it is not about a side, that it is not about a tactical game, because it has many implications, it has many risks and I think that they know perfectly well that it is not possible to play with the expectations of the people and that, therefore, if they have the possibility to govern I have no doubt that this will be unnegotiable and irrevocable. And so, if this is the case with the Government of the Spanish State that in the elections there is a concrete proposal to celebrate a reference to Catalonia, we will do it for one, eh? If this is not so..., and if I ask you now what expectations I have that I will tell you that there are few, because I am very afraid that what will happen to the elections will be a repetition of what we have already held these previous elections of the 20th of December, if that is not so clear that the way to resort to Catalonia is to decide its own Parliament and that the mandate of two million people does not have to wait or stop because the Spanish State is systematically negating to put forward the preferred formula for most Catalans, which is the formula of the pact and of the agreement, and therefore of the reference granted.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.77.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the conclusion of the question of trust until September]] [[317-00060/11]] He asked the president about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.78.0	Thank you, President. Mr President, yesterday, in this chamber, after losing the majority of Parliament, you announced to us that of four months you will be submissive to a question of trust. In any European government, any government with a parliamentary tradition, when trust is lost and the government, therefore, is submissive to the question of trust, this is produced immediately, it is not allowed to pass almost half a year for this celebration, because confidence has been lost at that time, not in four months. Therefore, the question is very concrete: for what reason, Mr President, the question of trust that you raised to us yesterday decided to delay it, to present it in four months?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.79.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.80.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Member, the reason is simple: to the question of trust the president is the one who decides when he is the president. [[You're looking for the bottom and the rialles. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.81.0	Thank you very much, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.82.0	Thank you, Mr. President. The deputies of the People's Party have come here. [[Rialles.]] I don't know if any more, but even here I can assure you we'll get there. His answer is the clearest evidence that this person of deferred trust is a name more..., forms part of the circus in which they have converted this Parliament of Catalonia. Let's make it clear: the trial is dead. The separatist adventure is over. End of story. You– and we don't have any kind of doubt after listening to your answer– what you need is to create a report. They need to put the pastanaga in the front and pull, so four_mesos. During these four_months in which you, therefore, will take advantage to warm the atmosphere, to mark an object that until this moment you did not have because you are unable to govern. We do not have any kind of doubt, therefore, that until now their governing partners will become the pim-pam-pum of politics and independent Tertulians. We don't care about that. What's really troubling us is to see how many months we're already carrying here in Catalonia that isn't running; many months that are constantly dealing with independence, only and exclusively, and, at a time when it's been seen that this adventure doesn't even have a parliamentary majority, we're worried about it, and a lot, see how you're looking at it as if it was an episode more of this show, of this telenovela, huh? – from this telenovela – and from this telecomedia that we have been living in Catalonia for a long time. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.83.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.84.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, I am convinced that if I have raised a question of trust with him now... and imagine that his wish is complete, that I do not win it, and that the mechanism is set aside to find a new president, you know where we would be, a very likely date of elections? Do you know what the second day of September is? It's September 11th. And then you would say to me: "No, you made a mockery because it just falls that you coincide with the day. I know that, calculated what you calculated, you wouldn't like it. I remind you of one thing, to you and to the whole chamber: until August 4 I do not have the opportunity to call early elections, so that, under the assumption or without the assumption, the land that we had to resort to until August 4 was immutable. That said, when you told me there was no government, you must refer to Spanish politics. Because I want to remind you that you are with a government in function that will break the memory of governments in function of the Spanish democracy, with a president of government who has changed the majority of it to Parliament and who has not done so much as we have done here, that we have a government, that it is a matter of trust to know whether the president who was chosen with an absolute majority of the People's Party, as you do not have it, enjoys or does not enjoy the confidence of your Parliament. It's more, he decided not even to subtend to an investiture session, for cowardice. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.85.0	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.86.0	Let's put 'em up... And I left it, with all the affection of the world that you ended..., when you said that phrase, which I pointed out, literally, you said: "The separatist adventure is over. He reminded me of the last part of the war, that captivating and disarming the independence front cannot continue. So, look, I'm very sorry to disappoint him, but I assure you that what you say is not adventure, and that in any case, to end, people. And in any case, he will be able to prove it, and he will have the opportunity, and he will also see it in that debate, like the rest of the chamber, in the question of confidence that will be held when the parliamentary course is resumed; that it is the one that touches on an advanced democracy: when the majority change, that it is the one that has passed to the Spanish Parliament, the one that has to make a democratic government is subservient to the confidence of the chamber. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.87.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the maintenance or the change of the full route of the Government take away the question of confidence announced]] [[317-00057/11]] Dotzena questions, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.88.0	Thank you, President. Well, president, after the breach of the presuppositionary process that, in an impressive coral movement, all the councillors have made us understand that it was everyone's fault that the government carried, you have raised the debate on the question of trust. The question we want to ask you is the following, because we told you yesterday that after this fraction of the presuppositional debate we need to make a reflection, but it gives us the impression that you make a reflection. What we wanted to ask you is whether with this question of trust you have a reflection on the viability and forms of the full route or simply try to come up and propose some new terms, pilot forward, and not address the issues of foundations, which would seem to us to be a democratic fraud.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.89.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.90.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, I want to remind you that I don't know... well, I would say that the situation of a question of trust is quite unprecedented, and therefore I would not consider it a democratic fraud, more quickly if there could be other qualifications. I'm looking for my notes because I had passed him a sentence – I already found it – that I said yesterday, saying: "I have no interest in unnecessarily and unjustifiably extending the mandate. Therefore, it is clear which is my attitude with which I face this question of trust.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.91.0	Thank you very much, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.92.0	Yeah. No, but the question is still raised, the question of funds is still raised, and we don't just start. Yesterday, Mr. Junqueras was posing a little kantià, wasn't he? But I would like to remind you of the actuality of a philosopher who may not have so much preaching among his ranks, but the old Marx said that the class struggle does not tolerate interruptions. And if you were unable to make assumptions yesterday, it is not a technical or operational issue of parliamentary combinations, it is the expression of a fundamental contradiction that the country is experiencing. And it's that the social issue is constantly compressed and delayed. And it is found, in most of them, that people want to apply certain policies, or that they would like to apply certain tax policies, others who have almost mystical respect for the privileges of certain elites, and the society that removes and cannot bear this situation. And, from another band, a full route that proved to be unviable and inoperative. What we're saying to you and what we're talking about with the debate on the confidence motion... which seems to us to be a perfectly legitimate and democratic issue, the debate is not about this, the debate is about what is the reflection that is presented in this confidence motion? Will we continue with the same unworkable full route or do you set up a change of orientation? We have already told you, if you are trying to print a decided social turn to the situation and to recover the social majority in favour of the right to decide, which connects, precisely, with what you mentioned is that you are moving to the Spanish State, you will find us there. If it is intended to perpetuate a situation of immobilism and marasm, naturally they will not find us there. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.93.0	Thank you, Congressman. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.94.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Rabell, for the time being, what is viable, and will not please a part of the chamber, but what is viable is the full road that gives little to this legislature and this government, and which it has at the back – and which it has at the back, I want to remind you – a great citizen support – a great citizen support. I believe that here we would all do well to hear the weights and measures of each one, because at the time when in this Parliament there was this majority that you said about the reference, that it was very extensive in terms of votes and in terms of escons, what was the result, of the Spanish execution? Exactly the same as it is now. It's not a count, either. Therefore, it is not so much a topic if we are a few more than 50_per_cent or a few less, because even though we were 60_per_cent or 70_per_cent or almost 80, as was the case with this Parliament, the answer is always the same. So, what is it that we need to think about, the question of trust? Yes, the government and the president are submissive. But it's a confidence to ask all of us. It is also the trust of the citizens to all parliamentary groups. Let's see if we assume what is truly unviable, because we can find that what is unviable on the date we celebrate the question of trust is exactly the celebration of this reference that some propose. And what we will ask you, then, not us – we, of course – but the citizens, is: since the full route of the reference is inviable, do they think that the full route that has 2_million people behind it is viable? And that's what you're gonna have to answer, too. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.95.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about a change of direction and the opening of other scenes in relation to the question of confidence announced]] [[317-00059/11]] Tretzena asks the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.96.0	Thank you, Madam President. You will excuse me, President, if I have no novelty, but I ask you the same question in another way. There will be a question of trust, the mechanism seems uncertain to us, but the big question is: is it a question of confidence simply to buy time and keep going or try to keep doing the same, or will it open other scenes?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.97.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.98.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, I can answer them with all roundness. It's not a mechanism to buy time, it's not; it's not a tactical game – I don't write these games. I understand the transcendence of submeter's a matter of trust and I believe – and of its words I also deduced – that this has been read for everyone. We can't play with a figure as important in democracy as it is a question of trust by holding it to a tactical game in which I have no interest. I think we need to talk about everything, we need to restitute the support the government has. I trust that it will generate a broad support for the Catalonian Parliament, which is the government's proposals, but obviously, unlike the investiture session, this will not be preceded by a pre-emptive agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.99.0	Thank you very much, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.100.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I must say that I liked your answer, for the interpretation I make of it, that you may have nothing to see with what you do. But, finally, as we are in this land and until the debate is produced, we will not know in what terms it is produced, but it will allow me to take advantage of it to make a reflection on what happened yesterday. Yesterday, your government, and you yourself, suffered a severe political defeat. But it's a defeat that, as far as I'm concerned, has not meant a victory for anyone. He drew attention to the breach of his parliamentary stability agreement, and his government would go in – he won't like the word, but I haven't found it better – in a certain inter-initiation, until there is this question of trust. I would like them to be aware of it and to practice the dialogue more with all the groups in the chamber, as at least until then. He said that from his defeat no one got any victory, but perhaps we would have to draw 'any lesson, some useful lesson. And let me tell you, Mr President, your defeat of yesterday's CUP is not primarily responsible; the main responsibility is you, Mr President. And you don't think I'm coming out here to defend the CUP's companies – who don't need it – but to tell you what's the reason we find this defeat. You saw your project rejected because you just looked at the half of the room, you just looked for the support of the two MPs and MPs of the CUP, you didn't look for other supports. We were going to announce a petition to the total on May 24. From May 24th to June 8th, neither a phone call nor a proposal for a meeting, res. You didn't want our support, or that of other groups that weren't the CUP. President, your mistake is not just in the face of the presupposition; you want to dispense with those we represent more than half the Catalans. The question of trust is an opportunity to change the course. I'm asking him to face it with an open eye and look at the country's side and not just half it. If he does that, he won't just win you, he'll win Catalonia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.101.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.102.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Iceta, don't think that because you say that we are an interested government I have to worry too much. In fact, I said, I think, in the investiture session: we should all feel involved in politics. It's all right. In fact, as much as we have the conviction that politics we have come to serve for a transitional period of time, I think we can serve the citizens better. Therefore, I am not worried as long as politics can have moments of interinitiation, especially if they mean that we do not want to perpetuate ourselves eternally in a certain place. The dialog is good and will always find it, and I believe that this government has given displays of dialog and willingness to dialogue. And I take the word from him: we won't stop talking to anyone, because we don't prejudge entry that everyone has to lock the door. But it's also true, in relation to the useful lesson that you said you had extremity, that it was me who was primarily responsible, or guilty – I don't like to blame – because we didn't..., or we ignored an important part of the chamber. You, what did you do yesterday, with a totality statement that's almost like a pre-substantial censorship? Will they take into account what this part of Parliament represents? Did they open the possibility that we could, yes, negotiate and dialogue in the processing of the presupposition? So they closed the door roundly to this possibility. So, at the time of departure [[remorse of the voice]] Guilt cards, please also examine which part of the miracle of guilt you have with your actions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.103.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the repositioning of the Government's full road stop the question of confidence announced]] [[317-00056/11]] Fourteen questions, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mrs Inés Arrimadas, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.104.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I regret to insist on the same subject, but yesterday we saw what we already knew, and that is that Parliament does not have a stability pact. And not only because you, supposedly, signed a settlement agreement with an anti-system party, but because you can't pretend to have an agreement when you want to declare independence and get out of Spain and the European Union. That does a lot of things, but don't give it off. After finding the weakness of your rupturistic bet, we also have the same doubt: will you continue with the same plan? And if that's the case, if they don't need time to change the plantation, why do they want to widen the agony? Why don't you raise the question of trust, perhaps, in July? I understand that, maybe, right now, with the general elections, so, it's not the best time, but why not July? Why not July? Why do you need more time, if you want to keep the same layout? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.105.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.106.0	Yes, thank you very much. Madam Member of the Commission, you see a reality. Yesterday the stabilization pact that had given little to the legislature was not completed. Therefore, as it is not complete, an act in consequence, assumes responsibilities and tries that the assumption of these responsibilities is subject to two basic criteria: one, democratic scruplesity – I think this is indisputable– ; two, that this does not affect the functioning of the country. And it is obvious that placing the question of trust – you have just recognized it – in the very weeks ahead, that would interfere in an electoral campaign. To situate it in July, I do not want to remind him of what some groups have said to place certain debates at the doors of the holidays, they said: "This is to deny the transcendence of this debate. I can understand that if the consequence of a loss of confidence is the call for elections, and I, as President, have decided to waive this prerogative and place it in the hands of all of you, I believe that the best thing that can be said is that this can be done at the moment when all of the calls can have a debate and be rigorous in this Parliament, when all of us can explain it. The approach from which I am going will not differ from what was hard on me here as an elected Member and from what was hard on me here as an invested President and, therefore, I do not wish you any surprises.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.107.0	Thank you very much, President. I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.108.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, I think the Catalans' problems aren't on vacation, so the sooner we can solve them, the better. And if we have to do it in July, it's done in July and nothing happens. But look, you know what's going on? I'm going to tell you what I think, and I think many Catalans think it: you won't say it, but you want to buy time because you need to remake your game, because you need to change your name, make it a wash in front of the Convergence party. Otherwise, it makes no sense for you to make Catalans wait four months with the same approach. We – I tell you honestly – feel a little uncomfortable with these CUP scenes. I don't know if they'll ever bring you candy and flowers to ask for forgiveness, but they'll understand that Catalan problems are much more important than all this. And it is also that we have already found that you have the new excuse for everything. They have passed from « Spain steals us to « does not let us do it the CUP, and with that they will follow four months, or five, or a year, or whatever they want. But I think a government really can't rely on selling smoke. Recognize that they were wrong; acknowledge that they never had legal and democratic coverage to do what they intended to do; acknowledge that they never had a social majority and acknowledge that they did not even have a parliamentary majority. Return to common sense, where there is a social majority and where there is a parliamentary majority in this Parliament. Because the instability of Catalonia and the whole of Spain is not good for Catalans, and it reminds me very much, you sometimes, Mr Rajoy, that you do not assume reality, do not assume the problems. You have tried to be the Catalans who are taking Catalonia out of Spain and the European Union, and we are going to try to be the Catalans who are reforming Catalonia and driving the reform of Spain as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.109.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.110.0	It won't be easy, but we're much closer to getting what you're aiming for. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.111.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.112.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. My honourable Member, I see you very concerned about instability. I think you said that what gives you instability is the proposal of full road to independence. How would you describe the state of Spanish policy, instability or instability? I ask why, if you were to look at presidents and political systems that take responsibility, you could look at where there is, I don't know, perhaps a process of independence that we don't know about all the pleas, which is what would explain the instability of Spanish politics, but it is clear that if any instability had to worry you is the one for which you were responsible, because you have tried to reach a government agreement and have been absolutely unable to respond to the demand that the people who voted for you make them. You sweep some things that I'm not going to discuss because you've now introduced another variable, which is the Convergence Refoundation variable, which seems to me to be enough..., a maximum confusion. But I'll tell you one thing, since you call her to the common sense, to return to the common sense: do you believe that the 2_million people who voted independence are out of the common sense? Because of your words, it's usually that, and it's exactly the opposite. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.113.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the government's understanding of economic growth, the generation of employment and opportunities for people]] [[317-00058/11]] Fifteen questions to the President of the Generality on the latest political developments. The question is posed by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.114.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Many honourable president, the other day, in an inquiry, the deputy of Junts for Yes Germà Bel said a phrase that connects many things, he said: "The countries do not have wealth, the countries believe wealth. And sometimes there are people who make proposals for the distribution of wealth, which must be, obviously, oblivious or going against the foundations that help to create wealth, and it is obvious that if you don't generate wealth you can hardly distribute wealth, they understand the concept of ‘sharing wealth together as giving opportunities, work, progress and benefit everyone, with special attention, precisely, to those people who have the most difficulties and vulnerabilities. That is why it is essential, with this objective, that governments be there from a point of view that they help or directly or that they provoke dynamics that help to create these strong bases for the generation of wealth to be able to distribute it. Yesterday, in the debate that we had, Vice President Junqueras gave a whole series of economic data from Catalonia that invite not only hope, but also to have confidence in the possibilities and potentials of this country. He said that we are witnessing an economic growth in Catalonia over the middle of the euro area, he said that exports grew an annual 6_percent, but it is that, moreover, among these, high-tech exports have risen by 10,5_percent. The vice president also said that industrial production evolves better in Catalonia than in the euro area, that foreign investment in Catalonia directly, the one you see here, grew this last year a 58_per_cent– certainly, only an 11_per_cent in the Spanish State –, etcetera, no? All this, obviously, all these data give confidence and everything has felt, as I said, if the effects it gives are giving more opportunities, more work for people, more welfare and more protection for everyone, right? And that is why, President, we want to ask you what is your government's understanding of the possibilities of economic growth and generation of work and opportunities for people living in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.115.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Turull. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.116.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Turull, one of the reasons why this government strives to do things right and, therefore, seeks the maximum degree of stability and, therefore, that all the effects of parliamentary mischiefs do not have consequences in economic activity is because we have to profit from and we have to stimulate a period of good economic data, which translates into a generation of wealth and generation of work places and, therefore, this government, which is operating fully, which, primarily, is to serve people through social policies, which we have accredited through the assumptions, and thus to accompany this dynamism that is experiencing the Catalan economy, which, as a matter of priority, is to serve people through social policies, which we have accredited through the assumptions, and thus to accompany this dynamism that is being experienced by the Catalan economy, which, together with our very well-established economy, is the superior of the Vice-President. Catalan industrial production is evolving better, as you said, than in the euro area. We have industrial employment with high-tech and medium-sized productions in the euro area as well. The industrial output index has increased by 2.3 in the first quarter of 2016, with a strong growth, certainly, of sectors such as textiles, with almost 19_per_cent, and of the machinery sector and the equipment of almost 9_per_cent. According to several studies by international consultants, Catalonia captures one_of_each_two foreign investment that is a fan of the Spanish State, one_of_each_two. Now, and in the January 16th, it's like, from encany, Catalonia has opened a 24.2_per_cent more empreses. First quarter of this year, huh? , in this political and economic context. The data of the twilight also accompany this good dynamism. We grow up in this world, and we do it, in addition, by reducing people who are unemployed in this world from what is in Spain. For example, at May 31 the annual of Catalonia reduction was of '11,6_per_cent; in the conjunction of the State it was of 7,7_per_cent. It grows affiliation to social security; it grows an annual 3.5_per_cent, while at the conjunction of the State growth is 2.6. So, we're good here, too. But in innovation, which is a sector where we play it, above all, where industry is concerned 4.0, the data is very hopeful and very good, and if we combine them with the good prospects of the tourism sector, that is what hopes for a dynamism of the Catalan economy that this government does not want to put up with and do not want to put up with, but rather to accompany and contribute to this multiplier effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.117.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Decree Law 2/2016 of 17 May, amending Law 6/1998, 13 May, regulating the operation of cooperative credit sections]] [[203-00003/11]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda: debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 2/2016, of May 17, amending Law 6/1998, of May 13, regulating the functioning of the credit sections of cooperatives. [[Widow's remorse.]] In accordance with Rule 155.2 of the Rules, Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, hereby submits this Decree to the Law. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] They ask, please, that if they have to go out they do it in a hurry and in silence so that we can continue with the session. [[Pause.]] Quiet, and please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.118.0	Good morning, everybody. Madam President, thank you very much. We present the validation of Decree Law 2/2016 of 17 March, amending Law 6/1998 of 13 May, regulating the operation of the credit sections of cooperatives. The European Union has among its priorities, such as funding, consumer protection in the provision of financial services to address risks and threats to its security and its economic interests. Moreover, this protection, through the strengthening of regulated banking activity, is not to be seen as being undermined by the displacement of financial risks to other less regulated sectors, as is evident in the communication from the European Commission to the Council and the European Parliament of 4 September 2013 on the shadow banking system. From these contexts 2014 modified the law regulating the functioning of the cooperatives' credit sections and its development rules to strengthen and improve its functioning and to help enhance the activity of the rural area as well as to avoid the exposure of the cooperative society's collection to excessive risks in the credit sections. This whole set of initiatives has led to a restructuring of the agricultural cooperatives sector with a credit section. In order to facilitate this restructuring, the Generalitat has been granted a 25_million euro downstream line to facilitate the acquisition of financing to enable it to cope with the possible return of credit balances from the credit sections to the holding companies. This standard mark we want to complement and perfect with the creation of the Cooperative Fund to support the sections of credit with the Decree Law 2/2016, recently approved for the Government. Our intention, and most of the cooperatives with a credit section, is to provide the sector with a new structured instrument to facilitate the financing of those cooperatives that agree to lower the credit section and proceed to its orderly liquidation, thus preserving the credit balances and interests of the members. The credit sections must have instruments for, in the event of a crisis, sectorally pooling support actions with their design, their willingness to age for their credit balances and their systemic character respect the sector's joint venture. Sections of credit management in the three-year period of the cooperative's common partners and co-workers, representing the life-long estads of many of the family units in rural areas where they are jointly with that of the same co-operative. Failure to meet the requirement of credit balances from the credit section at the orderly liquidation rate of its assets may lead to a risk of possible liquidity shortfalls to successfully deal with the credit section and may jeopardise the viability of the cooperative, of course, of its own credit section. And any crisis that occurs has a negative impact on the conjunction of the rural areas where they are located. Agricultural cooperatives with a credit section have not been alien to the economic crisis and have been generally financed. This has meant that, in some cases, the cooperative's agro-industrial activity has led to a lack of appropriate funds and high concentrations of risk in relation to the limitations required for the regulation of credit sections, as well as a reduction in the financial margins. These factors have made the returns of the financial assets in which the sections of credit invest so often very adjusted to cover the remuneration of the credit balances. In this framework, the recent restructuring of the sector has shown that liquidity risk has not always been covered by banking entities, as in the past. They have not always shown much interest in giving finance to cooperatives in restructuring or in acquiring the credit portfolio tied to the credit sections, as well as the possibility to have public endorsements. In particular, the later restructuring cooperatives, while being able to have the approval of the Generality, have not obtained the necessary bank financing, as the main banking entities and the most specialized ones in the agricultural sector have declined to participate in their financing. Given the lack of response from the financial entities, coordinated actions have taken place on the part of the pool of co-operatives with a credit section to address the lack of liquidity. The object of these actions has been to avoid the risk of contagion to the rest of the sector, so that it is not transferred to the rest of the cooperatives, even though these enjoy an adequate financial and economic structure. This risk has been valued for the sector by implementing measures responsive to specific crises. The unequal response of cooperatives to the latest restructuring cases has made it important for the government to take immediate action, amending Catalan legislation in the area of credit sections with the creation of this support fund, with a proactive structured measure to deal with possible future crises. The objective of this instrument is to provide this sector with stability and sustainability. The urgency in the application of the legislation it deals with justifies that the Government makes use of the exceptional legislative power of the decree which recognizes it in Article 64 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, since it competes with the assumption of the fact that it limits to resorting to it. The handling of this legislation by the ordinary way can coincide with nine crises in the sector, which would not have a tool that could satisfactorily resolve the situation. I would like to reiterate that the objective that he pursues with the creation of the cooperative fund to support the sections of credit is to deepen the preservation of the credit balances of these and, therefore, of the interests of their users. We must not forget and we cannot forget that the credit sections of the agricultural cooperatives are not funded entities, and therefore these credit balances are not covered by the Credit Entities Guarantee Fund or the Investment Guarantee Fund. In this sense, co-operatives with credential sections will have to participate in these foundations, which will be nurtured with their contributions. Credit co-operatives must, as a minimum, allocate 3 % of their monthly average credit balances. The new standard also incorporates mechanisms to ensure that the fund always has liquidity and that it can provide a response in all cases to the needs of the cooperatives it requires. The contributions made by cooperatives to the fund are a long-term financial investment, which they will be able to recover at the time of downgrading of their credit section. The Cooperative Credit Section Support Fund will be able to provide financing through three instruments: one, the guarantee facility; two, the grant of financing operations or, three, the acquisition of assets or liabilities, either to maintain its management or to commission it to third parties. According to this decree, the fund will be administered by the Credit Sections Association, ASC-SCCL, at its central role in the close of the better management of the credit sections and to vet for the interests of the sector, so..., as its cooperative partners aggregate most of the credit balances of the sector. Cooperatives with a credit section must be subject to the requirements and principles laid down in the rules governing the operation of credit sections and those of cooperatives. This implies the need for co-operatives to participate in the co-operative fund to support credit sections. On the assumption that cooperatives decide not to participate in it, they will not be able to maintain this section, and, therefore, the board of directors must approve a plan that involves the down payment of the credit section with its consequent liquidation, agreement that it will be necessary to approve the general assembly later. Cooperatives must have paid for their participation in the fund before 1 June, the date from which it is fully operational. From the Credit Sections Association, SCCL, as the co-operative fund administrator, the corresponding instructions have been carried out in order to be able to carry out this disbursement. The creation of this instrument had been repeatedly claimed on the part of the co-operatives with a credit section through the organisations representing them – the Association of Credit Sections, SCCL and the Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives of Catalonia –, urging the Government to move forward with an immediate character, taking into account the problem described above and the systemic risk posed by any crisis in a co-operative with a credit section by the sector's joint venture. For all this, we place on the consideration of the parliamentary groups the validation of this decree law, with the will, both our own and most of the sector, to be able to have an effective instrument to deal with possible future crises, thus safeguarding the standards of all those people who have money in them. We must be able to give an answer to prevent both family economies and economic activities from being affected by a liquidity crisis. Many thanks, and we continue the debate by listening to the representatives of the various parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.119.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Next, to fix his position, has the words of Mr. Francisco Javier Domínguez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.120.0	Thank you, President. Well, thanks to all the public you've come from, from cooperatives, federation, association, platform... When in this Parliament we talk about a sector like agricultural cooperatives and when there's so much expectation about it, it's when you realize the great responsibility of making decisions from here. One yes or one does not affect the livelihood of many people, their heritage, the social configuration of many peoples and so I want to explain that, let us decide what we decide here, we do so with the utmost respect for the whole sector and with the best intention of being solved in the best way. Having said that, why are we here? Well, we're here to validate a decree law. A decree law to create a cooperative fund to support credit sections. A decree law that obliges all cooperatives with credit section to contribute a 3_per_cent of their credit balances. A decree law that is born urgently and, even if it does not appear anywhere in the decree, is to avoid the participation of creditors of the credit section of the Cambrils cooperative. The creation of the fund, through a decree law, responds exclusively to the urgency of Cambrils. That has to be made clear to us. If the ordinary route had been followed, Cambrils would have entered the competition. But it is also true that a fully consensual bill could have been better worked out after a debate. Our Ciutadans Group is, 100_per_cent agree on the need to create a cooperative fund. We are one hundred_per_cent agree on the need to solve the problem of the Cambrils cooperative tax collectors and we are one hundred_per_cent agree that we have to restore confidence in the credit sections, and, above all, to eliminate any doubts about the model of agricultural cooperative with credit section. But it's not all worth it. The Generalitat has had full competence over the credit sections for a long time. It has powers over prudential supervision, that is, the Government is responsible for preventing situations like the one we are seeing in Cambrils and for providing or having tools to solve them if they happen to occur. For after about thirty years, all the governments that have been part of the Generalitat have some responsibility, because everything that has happened in Cambrils has not happened since yesterday, nor since yesterday, nor for a year or two. And it turns out that after a lot of time he's caught us all in shorts and we have to run and make a law decree. Well, for those who do not know the Cambrils cooperative, I want to inform you that the Cambrils cooperative, as an agricultural cooperative, works very well, has a highly valued product, an oil that has received several awards, the agrobotiga, in short..., agricultural activity is not the problem. The problem is how it has been managed, how the issue of the credit section has been monitored. Already in the amendments that were made on the Cooperatives Act in 2014, special emphasis was placed on the need to recover the original reason for the credit sections, which is to finance the agricultural activity of the cooperative, special interest was placed in working not to confuse the credit sections with financial institutions and, above all, much was insisted on safeguarding the cooperative model with credit section. Good. All this was in 2014. We're in 2016, how come there isn't a fund yet? We had to run because there is no fund and we could have created it with a lot of time and with a lot of calm. Had no one noticed what was going on in Cambrils until now, anyone? Everyone knew it, but no one had the tool to stop the subject? Were there no audits? Man, I hope that all this will be used to clear up responsibilities, whether it be judicial or political, or to pursue their course, but here we are with another speech. Here we are, here and now we have to decide what we do with the decree law: whether it is validated or not. The decree law is an urgent tool: haste has led to mistrust, suspicion, confrontations between some cooperatives and others, between some visions and others. The haste has made it impossible to provide for a timetable of progressive contributions, for example. The decree and the conditions it imposes are very likely to improve, because there has not been a debate on this either. But first, we have..., really the decree offers us a tool that is ready to recover some families and some of their investments, avoiding the competition of creditors. On the other hand, we have at our disposal the instrument that has been under discussion in the sector for a long time now that we need a financial support fund. For all this, although the first thing that comes out is to say that no, it is the easiest, although saying that we could not generate some sympathy with part of the cooperatives, it is also true that the 'yes' would also be easy, because we would have an accompaniment from the party that agrees to validate the decree. I personally, who am a Member of Parliament for Tarragona, could approach Cambrils more easily, but, despite everything and in favour of responsibility for all the credit sections, our position is to abstain us. That yes, nor..., the problem of voting that yes was that we have serious doubts about the content of the decree. We believe that the Government has enough support to push forward, to validate it, and... but it is imperative that it be debated in the form of a bill. We believe that it is essential that the text be corrected, that new ideas be brought forward, that the text be debated and that consensus be reached, which is what had to be done before, in order to have a legal text with more guarantees, with better conditions, in order to finally have an instrument in which we have a safe contingency fund. We need to eliminate the legal uncertainty that floats over the credit sections and regain confidence in the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.121.0	Thank you very much, Mr Dominguez. The words of Mr Ordeig of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.122.0	Good morning, everyone. President, Vice-President, Agriculture Adviser, Territorial Adviser, thank you for being here. It is an important territorial issue, which we are debating here today. By responsibility, the maximum responsibility..., we understand that everyone, obviously, has tried to be the maximum responsible defending his positions..., and to position the Socialist Group on Decree Law 2/2016, for the creation of the Cooperative Fund of the Credit Sections. In the first place, to give thanks, as my company has done, to the Department of Economy, to the technical services, to agriculture, to the Federation of Cooperatives, to the Association of Sections of Credit, to the agricultural unions, which have also positioned themselves, to the Platform of Cooperatives, critical with this decree, which have also contributed..., together with the cooperatives and sections of credit of the country, and, obviously, to the agri-food sector in general, which we believe to play a lot, precisely, to guarantee their exports, the rate of coverage of the food of our country..., and, obviously, as..., encouraging much more stable occupation than other sectors of our economy. And, obviously, to the different Members we have discussed, we have spoken, we have reflected, we have shared our fears about some issues that we may not have just seen clearly, and in the end each one has taken its decision with as much coherence as possible with the sector, the country and, obviously, the ideology of each political party. Reclaim the role of cooperatives beyond one hundred years of our country's history, essential – essential – to hear the economic sector of the country, the agri-food sector, the territories, the Catalan culture..., without hearing the cooperative world..., and, among the cooperative world, the paper that has dyed the sections of credit. Where the boxes of students did not arrive, where they did not have businesses, where there was no production and industrial fabric, where there were no banks, there were cooperatives, the cooperative of the people and the section of credit, which were the ones who had the deposits of the people's veins, the students, and, obviously, the ones who used to bank. The Generalitat regulates the sections of credit since 1985, and since 2011 that is spoken, and also collected in the Plac marc of co-operativeism, approved for all and to which we give recollection, to create a fund. A fund, why? So, whether we like it or not, the last few years there's already been a restructuring of cooperative credit sections. We've gone from 125 co-operatives with credit sections to 83. So there's already some restructuring. Apart from the more sonades, that of the Village, the Cooperative of Cambrils, there is already a restructuring. And we believe that, as we have seen with experience, but we also see how we focus on the future of the sector, such as a certain restructuring, a certain modernisation, breaking the dichotomy, or confrontation, between the rural world and the lack of modernization that many years have pursued, since cooperatives and the rural world can be modern, competitive, and must be, and they are. But it is true that some things need to be improved, as we also have to ask the government to explain why..., and we have to find the space, and we believe that today we can validate the decree of the law, but we also have to ask to process it as a bill of the law, because, precisely, some things are not clear, some articles may not just please us. Someone said he wanted to come and talk, and he couldn't do it. Some legal questions we have, and here's where we ask that during this 2016, and no more then, we can process as the bill of law this modification, that everyone who has doubts comes to explain them, that if there's any legal questions that..., some we don't have at all..., that can come. And here I think we've found a point of balance. Because there are two thoughts here. Rescue funds yes or rescue funds no? First thought. We here have to say, in order to be responsible, that we believe that we are saving yes, as well as better supervision, control of the government and the sections of belief that they have problems. Cambrils sounded ugly days, and no one was as good as to grab, forgive me the expression, the bull for the banyas. So I didn't pass again. Let the Department of Economics come and say: "This happened to Cambrils. So, let's do what we do, let's improve control, let's improve the financial protection of credit actions, because that doesn't happen again. And when we go through an orderly liquidation using the fund in a responsible way, in a transparent way. And some of the co-operatives who have doubts, who are against it, partly that's also why. Will there be enough guarantees of transparency in the management of this fund? Are they losing their money? And when we talk about Cambrils... if the most guaranteed money from this fund will be Cambrils, because they're the only ones who count on the government's endorsement! Therefore, self-criticism of all folds because we have reached this point; ask the Federation of Cooperatives, cooperatives, contacts, and friends and acquaintances, that we have all folds, to make us - in an idea with the Cooperatives' Board on the table and to make the best possible decision. And the decree is not our decree. It's the law of the government. But when we already have it, and all this, obviously, is the fruit of an urgency that would need to be resolved, we have to make a decision. And, on the basis of all the pleas, the best possible decision not to harm the sector, the best possible decision to hear many good reasons that have critical co-operatives, co-operatives with critical credit sections, with doubts about how it will be managed, is to listen to them and it is to give them..., while the bill is being processed we would also ask the government to be flexible – flexible – until there are conclusions and the vote, and the bill was finally approved. We all know each other, what we want to say with that. Above all, it is important for the territories of Tarragona, Ebra and Lleida districts, this decree law, which is where there is the majority of cooperatives with sections of credit. Doubts about whether or not they can be retroactive. Let's talk to each other during the processing of the bill. Everyone must agree that the credit sections are not companies or companies like others. Because when you hit a bank, a casket or a credit section, first you ask the credit section for responsibilities, but then the devices come to the public administration to say that we guarantee their studios. And as good as the bailout from the Spanish bank, from all over the state, was done precisely with a contingency fund, with a bailout fund provided for the same sector, as we are here. With doubts, with things that don't work, that we have to adjust, that they're not clear enough..., that maybe there are some members of the different cooperatives with sections of belief that maybe they're not well informed..., so now it's where we have to make this reflection, this debate, this opening..., and willing to change some articles. And I think in this sense – I also spoke with the department, with the advisors – there is availability. And with the different doormen. So, we are here, as well as asking what happened to control and taxation during these years, huh? To try to be precise that... not everything is getting better, but sometimes it's that there's control in time to detect problems and deal with them as long as it takes. For another band, some will not support this decree. In any case, ask them to stick to the vote that we will then do so that it can be handled as the bill. Ask for this collection and ask that all the folds try to see how we find this balance point. Because we all have our reasons, the sector has its reasons, but as much as 70_percent, or 69_percent, of the co-operative credit sections are in favour of it, it is not less certain– it is not less certain– that a 20-percent demand does not see it clearly. And, therefore, it is necessary to introduce the proposals, the doubts and the best of the people who do not know. Eighty-three co-operatives with a credit section is what we play for and for whom we rule. Therefore, we try to do so with the best possible consent. Six-hundred_million euros in deposits, and from here the 3_per_cent that has to form these 18_million euros from the rescue fund has to come out. So let's try, if by the end of the year we can make a bill of law, make a good one, improve it. Our vote will be in favour. But, obviously, we're already asking, President, that you can process it as a bill. Finally, I would like to make a point, but they are changing. In favour of validation, but in favour of processing as a draft law to be able to make some modifications, with diligence, because, as we see, the legislatures can end very quickly. So, please, let's do it in a few months, and if it can be before 2016 so that it's a reality..., and with flexibility with the different sections of belief that they don't make it clear. Extension for disbursement. And, obviously, just remember, companies and companies..., decided difficult and complex. We have valued all the parts, we have listened to everyone and we have tried – we have tried – to make the decision more coherent, with those who have it clear, that we have already said who they are, and those who do not have it so clear, and we have found the way of the mig, that seal that allows us all to contribute, that everyone can change and everyone can say his own. Therefore, from the point of view of Catalonia, from the point of view of the rural world, from the point of view of the defense of the land, of the agri-food sector, of the cooperativeism and from the point of view of the sections of credit, we will say 'yes to the decree and say 'yes to the bill to make it better. Many thanks, deputies, deputies, president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.123.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Ordeig. Next, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.124.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Welcome all the sector that accompanies us from the FCAC, different critical cooperatives, pages and representatives of different populations that have cooperative and credit section..., counselors, vice president, councillor... Well, vice president, they seem to say that the third one's the one who won. I hope that the third is true and the third is over, and that we can establish a legal framework that orders and structures the sector of agricultural cooperatives' credit sections and that we can establish some control and oversight mechanisms of the government that prevent us from going through again – I'll tell you the most well-known cases, there are no others, huh? – situations like that of Copalme, 2008, like that of the Village, 2012, or like Cambrils, my people, now 2016, to pose the three best known and who have arrived here in Parliament. Look, based on the premise that we had a bad piece on TV, and I talked to the secretary, Mr. Pere Aragonès, and that he's a brown, he was a hot potato that you found, that you weren't the most responsible. We're all a little co-responsible, as I used to say, but they weren't the most responsible. And he gave them that because in the third year, the year 98, which was then the Councillor of Economics, Mr. Mas, the President Mas, changed the rules of cooperatives that existed and made the law of 98, which deregulated the sector. Of those muds these muds. What happened? Subsequently, a decree was made, the decree of 2003, which was a decree that did not avoid risk situations for the proper functioning of the main activity of the cooperative, that we do not forget that the sections of belief that they wanted to do banking operations and that they were behind doing things that did not touch are the ones that were diverted, because the main activity is the social economy and is to pay a good product to pages and to do as a cooperative. Therefore, social economy, no bank operations financed. But that decree of 2003 did not establish any limits between the main activity of the section and the banking activities that were developed in parallel. And my friend of all this is Copalme's peta. 2008, tripartite government. Well, we've got work to do. That beat changed the decree, recordin-ho..., decree of 2010. But also self-criticism: we were not strong enough, because there were many pressures, just like now, to make the decree. We argued to make the case, but there was a lot of pressure and we didn't. So, we're all a little co-responsible. But we did make a decree, 83/2010, which imposed stricter limits. It was there for what effect of activity, weighting of activity, and fixed the figure of the partner, a very important aspect. What happened to this 2010 decree? That we've set a transitory regime that's too long. What happened? Change of government. And we find ourselves with the change of government and with the fact that the Department of Economics, which has the responsibility of vetting and monitoring the association of credit shares, cooperative according to order where they were all associated, so they should not do their job, because 2011, is always for Nadal, Nadal of 2011 and 2012, we get the cooperative of the Village. Even if there's the decree, it's the village cooperative. In this case we did bring him here to Parliament, I brought him myself to the committee. Let's go back to demanding responsibilities, let's go back to demanding he's more vigilant. And after that demand, change of government, and we find ourselves that in 2014, and get out of there and everything that happened to the Village, through the law of monitoring assumptions, we modify, introduce modifications because it is possible to recover the origin of the credit sections, and make all the regulation more restrictive, and make the activity more transparent, and above all more transparent and more guaranteed for both the producers and the collaborating partners. And in April 2014 we re-amended the decree, huh? Fixi's: 2003, modification; 2010, modification; 2014, modification. And now we're looking at a lot of restrictions. That is to say, we fix restrictions, we fix that sections will have to develop a plan, as well as a computer program on Economy will be able to hold in real time the growth states of the sections. And we're doing this, and we're doing it with press, too, huh? I say that for the sector that is against it now. Everything I'm talking about has always been done with a lot of presses, because, well, it looks like we worked on the run because it beats us something. And above us is the Cambrils theme – above us is the Cambrils theme – which you know here that I have entered questions, that there is an open expedient, which I know has already been solved. Clearly, you see, Cambrils' theme was sung, I won't repeat it: audits, audits that didn't work, warnings... everything had to be fixed. And here surely there will be criminal responsibilities, as they have already denounced. But there is also a responsibility of the Department of Economics, which is who should be old: there is a responsibility in watching over those who should have warned, had to put the mechanisms in place and did not put them in place. And now, as in Cambrils' peta, by the way, well, now we have to make the fund. Mr. Pere Aragonès..., vice-presidency was brave and said: "Well, then, let's go make the fund. Clearly, the perfect is the enemy of the good, which Voltaire said. We don't like having to approve the fund like that, nor do we like the way it happened. But the fund has to be approved, the fund for the sector has to be approved. What's going on is that we don't like who the mechanism was to approve it, and that's why we're also asking that it's passed on as a bill. We don't even like some of the questions on the background. Because this urgency I think is partly determined by Cambrils, but also by the other situation in the sector; remember: Montblanc, Mont-roig and other cooperatives, other sections of belief that everyone knows how they are. Therefore, we need to hold the consensus; we need to make the necessary debate with all those who have legitimate guarantees, who have legitimate interests. We need above all the legal certainty and confidence of the devotees, because we want the sections to move forward, because we defend the agricultural sector and because we defend this model of social and collaborative economy, and because, as the Óscar said, we know, and more so in Tarragona: in many rural areas of the Conca, the Priorat, the Lower Camp, there will never be a bank to settle, because there is no negotiation, and, in any case, the growth section of the cooperative completes this paper. And I, in the concrete case of Cambrils – and let me tell you this, as in Cambrilenca – do not want my people to see only tourism; I want there to be a strong section of the page, because we do more the best oil in the world, recognized and rewarded. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's not because I say it. Therefore, we need – is awarded – [[relays]] the cooperative pulled in and out. And to make it clear, we need to get all of us in this room, all of us, and I'm sure that the agricultural porters are clear, and that's how we do it, so that we can process the law's proposal, that there are all the appearances, that we listen to all of them, that they're critical, that they're not a block; that we all understand that the source is necessary; that we have the legal security of the additional, that's what creates problems for us; whether we have to do something retroact or not; what happens to the money that's been put in it. It's to say... and we have to do it quickly, with the will that the decree, as proposed by the law, can be validated as soon as possible, and we have a tool that allows us to do this, so to have mutualization, right? , this risk, and also take advantage of it to restructure a sector that we should have done long ago, that we did not intend, because legal intentions, as I did with my exposure, we did not – decrees 2003, 2010, 2014 – but it has not yet worked. And above all, the government must also be concerned about this vigilance, this effective guardianship, because a little thing that has happened since 2012 is that they may be so concerned about disconnecting that at the end of what we were disconnecting was real problems and things that we had to do. And so, man, it's not good..., so, it's not good to change every year of government. We've seen this. And I, on the subject of cooperatives, who have been living it since I entered this chamber..., is not good. Because, of course, this generates insecurity for us, it's like the day of the marmot, every time we have to start again. So, well, it's a setup that, like the camera, we're going to have to do, to try to have a little setup in this country to give the answer to the needs of the citizens, the pages, the workers and the workers. Therefore, we: we validate the decree by responsibility – by responsibility, I know that there will be a lot of cooperative people who are not in favour of it, but we will discuss it and listen to them –; we validate by responsibility and to make possible this subsequent debate, and, above all, that this helps us all and everyone to reflect – to reflect – that we cannot, therefore, change government every two years, that we have to solve the people's problems, that we are here for that reason, and that we have to be all responsible for the decisions we make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.125.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Grau. Next, there is the words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.126.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor, Councillor, MPs, MPs, on April 22, 2014, the Andreu Mas-Colell, at that time Economic Councillor, presided over the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Catalan Credit Sections in Bellcaire d'Urgell, and said the following in his speech: "The salvation of the Credit Sections of the Catalan Cooperatives is excellent. It was a statement, obviously, partially certain; there are some who did very well the dues, others proved not. What they never imagined, or would never have imagined, was what was done well by the debts, is that they would be punished for the government precisely to do well by the debts. And this is the initial perverse message that this decree has; that it is rewarding an irresponsible government and punishing excellence: "How you strive, you will be penalized; how you manage well, you will be punished, and how you are – or if you are – you will be directly ignored. In short, convert your Catalonia to that land where no good action goes unpunished. This looks like his project. It was an interesting speech, the one that came up that day Mas-Colell. "We will watch and ensure that this good salvation continues and is consolidated," he said. So, well, they haven't watched, they haven't controlled; they haven't guaranteed, even less. Watching was its function, it was said here, its obligation, in its competitive mark. They constantly ask for more resources, more skills, and then, what they have, they don't make them serve. And in a certain cowardly way they convey the responsibility, not to Madrid, that we are already accustomed to this, not to the co-operatives – to the co-operatives. I guarantee, they haven't guaranteed. Curious way, her, to guarantee; her message is: "I invite you, pay you. This is the message they've transferred to the co-operatives. They haven't watched, they haven't guaranteed. This decree– this decree–, if kept in this form, could be the death certificate of many sections of Catalonia's credit. And also for not taking on his responsibilities and obligations in time. It is an operation that we will not harvest – we will vote not – because it is unfair and abusive. Three reasons: it is an imposed foundation, with an arbitrary designation of a single administrator; two, it generates uncertainty, it generates uncertainty because the criteria for formalization of operations are not clear, yet they are unclear, they are opaque and this should be resolved; three, it is a foundation that poses a lot of risks to the cooperative. And the worst of all: no one is saved; this is not true, it will not save either Cambrils or anyone, because the fate that this decree has, in the way that you present it today, is a lengthy judicial process; the safe disappearance – because they have already announced it – of many sections of credit, and therefore a download in the recap. This will not solve either Cambrils or any other cases of what we have. She's a runaway from the front. And here, too, we can call upon the responsibility of opposition parties that collect this. Because this is an exhibition of... in other words, of endogenous corporateism, which is defending and putting forward the interests of the Administration and not of the Administration. She's a runaway from the front. Of course, then we will vote yes, that this is passed on as a bill of law, because we know that we will lose the vote. And of course we think it's necessary to build a foundation, but not this foundation, not this model, not on these conditions. It's about a low democratic quality fund... or a decree, pardon, low democratic quality. And especially of dubious legality in some of its aspects. And this can be demonstrated later, because it has been done with night; I don't know if with treachery, but with night. There was no dialogue, there was no democratic quality. The most worrying aspect, the retroactivity in five years. And then they say publicly that this doesn't have the purpose of solving past problems. I see that it's extraordinarily difficult to find back-activities of five years in the Public Administration. So, that's what you guys are doing today. That's scandalous; it's scandalous, much as they say no. Low democratic quality: the members of the basic cooperatives were unable to vote. There was a lack of transparency, a lack of dialogue and a lack of consensus. Yes, don't say no, Mr Oriol, the man who never lies, Junqueras, don't say no, because there has been a lack of dialogue, transparency and consensus. He went out at night. Why is he acting like that, the government? There's a glitch in all these questions, because you can't hear that you've worked this way. Yesterday there were some co-operatives who were protesting, and they were protesting against this decree, and they are not professional demonstrators, they are not of those who are protesting more than not working, no, the whole opposite. These people are the people who rise up very quickly, who work very hard; they are the people of the estalvi, of the hard work, of the effort, of the values that had once been claimed by the Government of Catalonia; of the well done work, which Vicens Vives said. Do you remember that well done job? No, don't remember – don't remember. I'll tell you what. Because you're turning the ladder to a lot of good people. I use this expression because it's also a lot of its expression, to the "good people," even though sometimes good people refer to people who are worse than they have. But in this case we're talking about really good people, really good people who are really right, and who are right and..., and today you can lose this vote, and today you're perfectly going to have to pass this decree, we're going to pass this decree, but like you're right the time will give you the reason, and time will judge very severely if the decree is kept in this formula. Therefore, we will always be on the side of the good people, and so we will say no to this decree in the current formula in which it is presented. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.127.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Next, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.128.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Since the CUP, we understand that the sector needs to have an instrument that guarantees the coverage of deposits in the event of difficulties in liquidating the credit section. But, for a band, we don't understand that the process... - it's all said, huh? However, I was quick to say... – that the process did not take into account areas of discussion and debate with all the people in the sector; that it does not seem satisfactory to us to guarantee the profitability of the fund managed for a cooperative of second degree through the co-location of resources in financed products – and that the decree contains that the products must be free of high risk, the guarantees are doubtful taking into account the antecedents of the financial crisis. For another band, it does not seem relevant to us that the decree poses a backactivity of five years in the application of resources to the fund, since it means penalizing the sections of credit that they have acted in a legal and honest way to cover the holes and the shames of the evils practiced by other sections of credit. In this sense, we also understand that it would put at risk the existing provisions of some sections. Finally, this decree could also cause serious distortions to the sector, such as the banking of credit sections. Therefore, what we will do will be to abstain. And we also support the idea of dealing with it through the law's proposal. And, moreover, we believe that we need to clarify what has been the degree of responsibility of the Administration in the deterioration of the sector, and, for another group, that we need to create the necessary debate mechanisms in the sector as a whole to search for the appropriate mechanism to develop the guarantee fund.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.129.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Next, the words of Mr. David Bonvehí, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.130.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Counsellors, Agriculture Adviser, Counsellor, Deputies, Deputies, Good morning. Mr. Pere Aragonès, thank you for the work done on this decree, and on your entire team, on your entire department. And, therefore, to give welcome to the cooperative sector, to the Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives, the Association of Credit Sections and various cooperatives, therefore, that today accompany us. The sections of credit are hundreds of years old, with more than a hundred years of history, hidden with the Law of the agricultural unions of 1906 and since its creation, therefore, they have served to provide financing, a good financing, a financing more advanced to the whole rural world, in particular the same agricultural cooperatives, but also to their associates. And, therefore, the sections of credence are a success story, intrinsic in our rural world that we know of the last hundred years and, therefore, only from the firmness and rigour that the sections of credence and the agricultural cooperatives have acted, can we hear, therefore, that this figure, very close to Catalonia, still, today, remains in force and that it is a palar stick that we must continue to keep facing the future. The sections of credit, as has been said by different parliamentary groups, have made country, have not made much and, therefore, Together for the Yes is totally compromised with this model. For this reason, because we are so compromised and because we believe in this, and because we believe in it, only from this point of view, can we already understand that things, to keep them or because they continue to be useful, all things must be better and must therefore be reviewed. And it is in this sense, from this belief, that we believe so strongly in the sections of credit, therefore, that it is possible to understand that this parliamentary group of Junts per el Síposti to validate the decree of law, and there is also the parties that we are part of Junts per el Sí, both what is the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia as Republican Left, that since 2011, accompanied by other parliamentary groups, such as Initiative, we will understand that it is necessary to restructure the system and that among all... – and the Socialist Party, of course –, among all of us, since 2011, restructuring various themes to make it viable, the cooperative system and the sections of credit in particular. From this belief, which we believe in, we believe that we can change things. These entities, it has already been explained, serve as a treasure trove of common partners and co-workers, and also from the very co-operatives that have been used by them. As has also been said, management of some EUR 600 million and a third, therefore, some 225 million, is intended to finance the activities of the same cooperatives. Almost all entities, almost all sections of credit, as has been said, are part of the Credit Section Association, and an association of credit sections that has done a good job in its history – the past year celebrated the twenty-five years – and so lately, too, is following an information platform that has helped us to restructure and review the sector further. That's why since 2011, but before it had already been done, but since 2011 in particular, so much has been done and so much work done. And that's earned by all the co-operatives. I ask, like Junts for the Yes, is that this good job that we started in 2011 – we finish – in this 2016 creating this cooperative foundation. And, therefore, we would like, like Juntes per el Si, to have this process complete all the cooperatives, the eighty-three cooperatives with section of credite, so that since 2011 you are truly giving the do de pit, that you believe this is viable, and therefore we make a cry from here that all the sections of credite that are currently in force continue with this good work and have just restructured the sector all together. Like I said, what have we done in these last few years? So, we recovered, in part, the function for which the credit sections were used. There was a time, surely, that among all of us we got confused and thought that they were funded entities. And that has done, therefore, that some co-operatives have had to make a lot of effort to stay in the countries that we forced them to the law. And, therefore, from here to these eighty-three co-operatives, which have made this great effort, therefore, to adapt to the new rules. This meant that there were fewer sections of credit for different reasons, some also by merger; but in any case, therefore, the recognition of these eighty-three sections of credit that remain, the 44,000 tax partners that today have and these 600_million euros, therefore, of deposits. There has also been an improvement in the transparency and solvency of the same credit sections. Here too, as I said, a thank you to the Credit Sections Association of the same cooperatives, which are making an effort, and to the competent department, therefore, because all this is still more transparent and more solvent. We also made a law of cooperatives that expressly recognized the sections of credit, the rural cooperatives, the agricultural cooperatives because we already knew, and we all believe, that not all the cooperatives that exist in the people are equal. I, therefore, wanted – we wanted – this idea that many say of the rural cooperative as the vertebrator of the territory, therefore, continued in force. But what we're presenting here today is this cooperative fund supporting credit sections. We, together for the Yes, want to believe and it seems to us that it is so, that the majority of parliamentary groups and also of the sector, and so on, cooperatives that have come to see us these days, that do not see it at all clear, so on the platform I think that, in the fund, the cooperative fund accept it and believe it, I think that's it. We sincerely believe from Juntes for the Yes that this foundation is also created to avoid the risk of contagion that when one section of credit is not right, because the others..., therefore, there must be a system. Here we don't agree everyone: there are cooperatives who think that if some sections of credit went wrong and the tax collectors couldn't get their money back, they wouldn't be affected. That's visions we have, but there's a lot of people, so you see it this way. We understand that the economic and financial situation has changed over the last few years. There is a reduction in the margins of the credit sections, so they don't have enough availability to sometimes have liquidity; the Administration isn't responsible..., it doesn't have the same capacity, so it doesn't have the same capacity, so it doesn't have the same interest that they had before. For all these reasons, after looking at it all, we believe that a good solution is to create this co-operative foundation, which, for another group, it seemed since 2011 that everyone saw it as a positive thing and that everyone agreed with it, but this is when we come in, so we also, like the other parliamentary groups, understand that this is best being done as a bill of law and we understand that the department has done a good job, but surely, to finish incorporating all the co-operatives that see it clearly, so this has to be done as a bill of law to incorporate some stuff. We, like Junts for the Yes, ask that this should not be extended for months. If we can process the bill as a matter of urgency, then I would ask all parliamentary groups to do so. I believe that the legal uncertainty situation would not be accompanying and would not be good for anyone and, therefore, we would call for the urgency of the bill. And what other things do we think you can study from this bill? We see that the fund, I think, as I said, everyone else agrees, and I think it's the only solution there is now, but surely, therefore, we are willing to study how to strengthen the guarantees of this fund for the sections of credit they carry; to show that the Government of Catalonia will have a leading role, therefore, in the supervision and management of this fund; we are also willing to listen to proposals to calculate the percentage or the different ways of calculating this percentage for each cooperative, and therefore I believe that we can find a point where we can all do so much better than this decree. I also want to point out that today, two thirds of credit sections have already contributed to this fund. Therefore, consensus in this sense is important. But, in the same way, the third part of credit sections that remain to provide, so I think the processing of this bill can help you to bring it in. We, like Juntes for Yes, believe that a second-degree cooperative, such as the Credit Section Association, is empowered and prepared to manage this foundation, and another thing, therefore, is whether to intervene more with the department or whether to be more collaborative with the government, and for years, as I said, this Parliamentary Group of Juntes for Yes and the parties that form it is totally compromised with the Credit Sections. We are a political formation that believes in territorial rebalancing and in sections of credit, in being a figure that ensures that there is this service in more than forty municipalities where there is no more banking entity, we understand that this is also a necessary territorial rebalancing. We are those who have always believed in the agricultural world and the cooperative world, and therefore, as we started, we believe that... – as we believe so much and still believe ourselves – we believe that we need to introduce some small change, a change that we started in 2011 and that I demand, therefore, that with the greatest possible patent we have just done all this folded and we have just restructured the sector with a broad consensus both at the political level and at the sector level. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-09-1802.131.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Bonvehi. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. Let's call it a vote now. [[Long break.]] We're calling a vote, but it doesn't sound like the bell. [[Long break.]] Well, as you've seen, the voting bell doesn't work and we're screaming like the bell to start the Ple. Looks like it's everybody. I'd say so, wouldn't I? [[Pause.]] According to Rule 155.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of validating the decree and the votes denied are in favour of repealing the decree. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. It was approved by 89 votes to 10, with 34 abstentions. As a result of the petitions put forward by the parliamentary groups, it seems to me that there have been three petitions which we have been asked to be dealt with as a draft law. Therefore, we are now voting whether this decree needs to be dealt with as a bill or not. If you also understand that the votes in favour..., they're in favour of processing as a bill, and they're not, against. Okay? [[Pause.]] Therefore, the vote begins. 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. With the result, and in accordance with Article 155.4 of the Rules, this decree will be dealt with as a draft law. Many thanks, deputies and deputies, that have a good day, a good late. [[Greetings.]] The session's up.
