ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.1.0	It's part of the session. [[Asking the Government about foreign investment capture policies]] [[300-00045/11]] The eighth item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on foreign investment capture policies presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for the Yes. To expose it, has the word Mr. Germà Bel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.2.0	Where's the clock? (Founding voice) Good morning. Mr. Counselor, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament mornings, good morning. I, the counselor – when the caramel has just moved – will not ask you about the most important question you can ask a government, a trading company, which is: what policies do you do to promote equality and social cohesion? Because it's not his area. I'm not going to ask you about the fact that every time more people come to us..., it's become a first question... – the Bassa Councillor just came in, she's from the Ram, huh? What did I mean a moment ago – I'm not going to do what's the main question every time for more people, which is: what's your policy to combat climate change? Because it's not his branch. Fortunately, we have in this chamber a bill of climate change law, which we are dealing with, which I hope will give us good news. You're touched by things that are less important, but less important. The question you generally have to answer is: what do you do to help create an economy in Catalonia, to create a rich Catalan economy? This question is not so important for a government, because governments do not believe rich; the rich does not create it nor the Official Gazette of the Generality, the rich does not create it the Official Butllet of the State, the rich believe people. But, as is perfect, governments have some papers, with some factors that can help them, because the market doesn't work out well. In other words, three: one of them, the human capital or education, to the primary, secondary... Ahir is said in this chamber– is not the illustrious deputy who said it, there is none of his group– that Catalonia has a weak result in school matter, depending on the resources that the country has, the wealth that it creates, and it is certain, the problem is that the resources that the Generality has have have nothing to do with the wealth that it creates. Catalonia spends a 4.1_percent of GDP on education; Spain, a 4.8; the European Union, of mitjana, a 5.2. What is strange to me is that the honourable Member does not have any conclusions and acts accordingly. Because that, it hasn't changed, it hasn't changed, it won't change. In university it is better; it is so good that the Catalan universities, without discussion, are the best, among the Spaniards, of Europe, and well situated. Sometimes it makes a bit of a penetrating argument that a xifra, which does not cease to be important, of the 30_per_cent of the degree registration, which is 600_euros, remains object of so many hours, because for some people they are important. This is why there is a policy of supporting families, more disadvantaged, of students; but this is capitalization quickly with wages or with the probability of finding work for the student..., who offer the best universities in Spain, some of them at the level of Europe, and here there is responsibility. Some other things they can do, which I like, but I won't ask them... it's about physical infrastructure. The Catalan policy, the truth, has not yet been gloriously achieved; but the infrastructures that determine Catalonia's productivity are state infrastructures. To say, in two words: Mediterranean Corridor – we don't know for a while whether it is Mediterranean or Madrid; to say, in two words: it is solved. There's a third, which is very important, and it's rule and institution. Serious governments don't contract. Serious governments encourage competition, prevent and do not create monopolies. And you're having a hard time, because you belong to a_marc, that of Spain, and here there are competitions – some specific of you – in that for any international mediation we find ourselves as in the state, the leading economy in regulations to which companies are subject to open negotiations, the number of days it takes to open a trade, neglect of anti-monopoly policy... Something can do, many can't. It would be good if it were taken into account, because it is one of the main problems of productivity in Spain. The governments aren't going to turn on energies, they're going to help shut them down. To do these things, governments and countries need finance. When the inside is not enough, if you need to attract the inside. There is a possibility of attracting public finance and attracting private finance. For what it does to attract public finance, as you do very poorly, because you have a good that also makes you feel bad... Some people who rejoice, and it is heavy that rejoices, have not yet known that the qualification of a Spanish regional good does not speak of the capacity of the region's economy to finance itself, it speaks of the capacity of the regions' institutions to finance themselves, and it is the most normal of the world that a region, for the most productive that follows, which controls 5_percent of its taxes, does not give confidence in the time to use instruments to finance itself. Even if the Catalan institutions approve taxes and taxes in the face of social urgency and are systematically used by the central government, as long as they are in force in other regions, such as the tax on bank deposits, such as when in Brussels, such as the tax on empty floors. Eight-cents_million euros we have lost, of margin, to iron social policies. The audit institutions that value the rating of the good and these things that sound so... No, no, we're not appreciating the ability to create production and attract resources in the economy, that's what private finance does. And here we are already arriving. We have recently felt that 2015 Catalunya was the third European region to attract direct investment, that of truth – that of truth – the one that goes up to the plant, not the one that passes by itself and is distributed throughout Spain, as the transcontinental journeys of the hubs, that of truth, the direct one, did not finance it. The third, first continental, because the first two are England and Scotland. And we also read – but it's newspaper news, we want something more solid, more... – in the Financial Times, that Catalonia is the best European region in the South to invest 2016-2017. Before that, there is a need to have resources from the Catalan economy, which very little... helps a government that has no resources, that has very few resources, and when it uses them they are systematically amputated for the central government. I wanted to know what the diagnosis is and what the government's orientation is on foreign investment uptake. But we never have to forget the whole fold. The foreign investment doesn't go because it does, it doesn't go because there are great restaurants in Catalonia – it's going well when you're here, at the restaurants–; it doesn't go because we have a country that is a little unspoiled but visitable; the direct foreign investment sees why from Catalonia you can trade. This does not please the people who are the heirs of economic nationalism and the theories of imperialism, who in trade see a system of domination and exploitation, but what the cosmosvisions are do not have, do not share. The fact is that the direct investment, that of seeing, is set up to trade from Catalonia. So, when I ask you about what policy and what policy diagnostics the government has about direct investment, external investment uptake, I also have to ask you the question of why everything is folded, and that is: how are we doing in foreign trade? External trade is what we need to provide resources from outside, in terms of returns, to an economy, to create quality jobs and to support real wages, more in the north than in the south, which is not the situation of the Catalan economy in many of its sectors and for many of its people. And we've heard later that Catalonia's percentage of exports to the rest of the world that is not Spain is 62_per_cent and the percentage of exports to the rest of Spain is 37_per_cent. This is good news and this should be celebrated by everyone, regardless of the independence debate, because it is a code of good practice to diversify risks. If 85 had two thirds of the export to Spain, 95 had half and now we have 32 percent, well, regardless of what independence represents. And here we are approaching relations between Chechnya and Germany, Austria and Germany, 25-30_per_cent. This line is good. And the next question, connecting with the first question, is what is the diagnosis and direction of the government in promoting foreign trade. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.3.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Business and Knowledge Advisor, Mr. Jordi Baiget, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.4.0	Yeah, good morning. Thank you, President. Thank you, Member; thank you, Members and Members, to be mornings with this question too. You said: a good part of... there are areas of structural growth that do not depend on the department or many times do not depend on this government, unfortunately. And what we want is that every once in a while, that's why we're doing what we're doing. And our pocket, the government's pocket, I would say, but also from the department, it is possible – to make it possible – and to accompany this recovery index, which the data say, but the most important thing is that the economic actors say it, and the actors of the productive economy are saying to us that yes, that despite all the things that appear in the diary there is a certain dam. What we want is that this country continues, is consolidated to create what is really important: to create occupation, which is what we care about and what we want. And the results in the matter of job creation are positive. Yesterday we knew the result of the recorded event, it's thirty-four months as a result of which the recorded event is down. Last week we met the results of the EPA in Catalonia. The results of the EPA in Catalonia say that the occupation is growing and that the situation is returning, so it's the best combination. And that's all right, but we know there's not enough, because it's true, there's not enough. We have to do more, because we have to be aware that of trust, of real trust in this country there will not be – there will not be – until it is substantially restored. Therefore, and you have already said, the work of this department and that of the Government is to accompany – to accompany – this productive activity in consolidating the recovery. Because it is true, the job creation must come, mainly – mainly – and primarily – from the hands of businesses and productive activity. We won't be the government and the public administration won't be the government. And it seems to me that it's about explaining to them in which situation we find ourselves and what's the problem to know that we can't create occupation. So, how do we do this to consolidate this dam? So, look, I'm looking at and taking an example of what they're doing to European countries, and looking at and basing ourselves on those programs like Horizon 2020 or the RIS3 strategy. And in this context, industrial policy, innovation, entrepreneurship and internationalisation are emerging and emerging. You've put your focus on internationalization today. And it is true, with the data that you have given and that I will now give them, so the Catalan economy today is a much wider economy in the world than it was before the crisis. And that's fine – and that's fine. Because we have replaced – and we want it to be structurally – the internal market for external sales. And that's what we have to do. Recently, we have had the opportunity to evaluate the results obtained in the field of exports. And, beyond the monthly variations that depend on times of certain conjunctures, it can be seen that there is a growing trend. And the trend has grown since the year 2008, Catalan exports. That's to say, at the end of last year, you sold them outside of Catalonia for 64,000_million. It is the five-year consequence of a record of exports, with an increase of 6_per_cent, which is a higher rate than the European Union, the euro area and most developed countries of the European Union. And that's good. About 25_percent of all the exports made to the Spanish State come from Catalonia and, most importantly, the companies they regularly export, which are those companies that have exported for four years; at 16,400, it is the third year that we have a record, and it grows a 3_percent. One_of_each_three enterprises in the Spanish State that regularly export is Catalan. And that's fine, and that's what we need to go deeper, because as a country we have a double goal: to consolidate and grow this kind of exports by the way that the companies that export more and that every time there are more companies that export. But you said it: internationalization went far beyond an economy..., far beyond the volume of exports; there is also the presence of Catalan companies abroad, and in this case we have more than 3,100 Catalan companies that are present at 131 countries, with 8,300 subsidiaries, and this fact means that every time there are more Catalan companies that have internalized one thing: that their market is the world and, therefore, they must be present there where they have traded. And another pillar of internationalization, to which you also refer, is foreign investment, especially that which is a product character, which is what is left, which is what is long term, which is what creates jobs, which is what creates wealth and occupation in this country. In Catalonia, at this time, we have 6,400 multinational companies, companies that have invested, that are generating wealth and that are an expression of confidence in the country and in the future. It is true that our geographical location helps us, but other things also help us: it helps us with an industrial culture, it helps us, therefore, with a trained workforce, it helps us with the presence of a powerful market, and it helps us that we can – we can – be the gateway for many companies from outside Europe to Europe. Now, it's true: we don't have all the instruments, and we don't have two that are very important and that we'd like to have. One is the determination of taxation; it is no longer the recaptation, which also, just like, what taxation we do in our country and what we have. And then the other – you mentioned it –, which is the infrastructure, which is the Mediterranean Corridor or, like at least, the third wire. But it's the things we have to do. We have to stay in Europe and we have to go to Europe. What we can't do is... as the ships coming from the Suez Canal arrive and turning around the Iberian Peninsula to go to the ports of Rotterdam or Antwerp, when they could be at the ports of the Mediterranean and the ports of Barcelona. And if we are talking about outward reversal, then, this year, both data from the Spanish Ministry of Economics and data from the FDI Markets, which is from the Financial Times, say that the productive foreign investment has increased; concretely, according to data from the ministry, in Catalonia last year there were 4,783_million euros, which is an increase of 58_per_cent. And it's a direct reversal, because 51 percent of this investment went to the industry, which is what we want. So, coming to the industry means that Catalonia has..., if we don't have a good tax, because we can't determine it and we have what we have, and we have infrastructures that are right in world affairs, let's just say that there is a system, a favorable ecosystem that favors this business activity with research structures, with business diversity and skilled work, and also – and also – there is confidence in the country. And it's true that the FDI Markets of the Financial Times told us that we were the fourth continental European region..., left us Russia..., no, not Russia, Moscow – Moscow. But, well... but the first western mainland we are, with a great growth, and that's good and it shows that this trust is there. And how do we do it, from the government of the generality? So, accompanying, accompanying the companies; accompanying the companies, as much as they want to go out, the Catalans who want to go out and want to implant on the external markets like those that are outside and want to implant themselves in Catalonia. And how do we pick up? We gather with the external offices that Actio has and that in the day Catalonia Trade & Investment, thirty-six countries of the world and that in the end give answer to ninety countries. And with what? So, help them: managing the initial phase of the investor project configuration; helping to search for the location to the territory; looking for finance, if they get out; presenting them technological and industrial partners, and putting in contact the fabric, which is also important, from suppliers and helpers, and also with innovation and transfer centers. And this process of monitoring the fem from the implementation phase to the follow-up process, when the activity is already started, and the advice for its subsequent consolidation. And Action doesn't just want there to be projects in Catalonia because they're in Catalonia and serving the Catalan market, but because it serves as a spearhead and as a bridge, let's say, to the reversal and presence of certain global companies at the European market. And we want these companies to be located in Catalonia and to be located around Barcelona. And this is the way in which, therefore, the Government of Catalonia, through Action and through Catalonia Trade & Investment, helps. In the last two years we have managed and have made it possible for one hundred and twelve investment projects, which have involved more than 637 million investment and the creation of more than four thousand jobs, to have arrived and to have come here to Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.5.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Next, has the word Deputy Germà Bel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.6.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. And, to help us hear some things, for example about direct investment..., because sometimes..., it happens when it comes to airports, it passes to the readers and reflexes of the Psalm Press, which sometimes say, for example, of the Quito-València flight, which is on a scale in Madrid, they say: « – Passengers arriving in Madrid : so many. – Yes, man, but this one didn't go to Madrid. He went to Quito, or he went to València. So, with the external investment, the same goes: there is a lot of investment that goes through Madrid but it doesn't stay there. If we were to keep France talking about Paris, and Germany about what's going on, about Frankfurt, huh? For example, when the Italian Enel bought Endesa, the capitals that were to arrive in Spain were recorded in Madrid, and that in Madrid the only plant that has Endesa is the Spanish subseu, legal, has nothing more. That's why he appreciated the precision of the investments that we give to my land to see, those who create jobs and those who respond to something that a society and a territory and its people offer. In this sense, I believe that within your department you have the example, to continue taking inspiration that you can also export to the rest of the government, as you do even better, because in search of things have done well. There are a lot of people who don't know – research above all anchored to the university – that half of the foreign teachers who have a university contract in the Spanish State have it in Catalonia, while the Catalan university system has a 20_per_cent in Spain. It is no wonder that the half of the excellence scholarships, great excellence scholarships – ah, which you've taken from one! – from the European Vaginal Search System to Catalonia, the half of the Spaniards. There was one day that the President of the Generality, at the investiture session, said that Catalonia, in the matter of international publication, which we in the hot science world, was at the forefront of international affairs. And a journalist, who I will not assign – he is not here – said that what things can be said, because this journalist discognized that for this reason we have metrics and that the catal search system, with Holland and Israel, by the intensity of publication, is far from all of Europe – Israel, to these effects, counts as Europe at the moment. He did good. And what did he offer? An open space has been offered reduced – reduced – barriers to entry, opening up the possibility of obtaining contracts, feeling reasonable with the requirements imposed on those coming from outside, but not going beyond what is reasonable, and, therefore, opening up spaces. That's what I think his government – and this is a matter of his competence – needs to be very careful, and to export to other companies and cabinet companies as well. Your advice has to be a procompetence antimonopoly filter, because there is someone who can compete for space. To economies where space is closed and reserved, especially if it's for you, there's no innovation, there's no creation of wealth. And this is his job, because we also have in Catalonia, even though the competitions are still scarce. And you said that – and I don't want to expand – in the field of foreign trade. It's a lot of fun, because... the other day he was anticipating the dice, right? , commented on the data of my group companion Oriol Amat, in what is foreign policy – to some people the annoyance that is called foreign policy, but the functional classification of the expense says this; what do we do, right? And I would ask them to be a little more ambitious in external action and, to the extent possible, to allocate a little more resources. And I know it's complicated; I've already said from the outset that the main question you have as a government is that of social cohesion and equal opportunities. Look, we don't have to spend the €5.8 per person spent by the Government of Andalusia, even though it's been encouraged by a group of this chamber to spend more. Not even as much as we get to spend the 3,8_euro per person who spends the middle of the autonomous communities of Spain, not the State. But, man, if our 2,8_euros per person of foreign action were to take a little bit and diagnose what territories could be sourced from..., finally, investments and trade and destination of own years, a little bit more action on this land wouldn't come badly, even though we're still spending per person living in foreign policy under the Spanish middle and a lot of leaders, who are Basque Country, Extremadura and Andalusia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.7.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.8.0	I thank him for the reference he has made to research, because it is one of the factors and one of the actions of these who are and that the companies and the foreign investment, when he wants to come here to Catalonia, counts. I will tell you that research centres are also market oriented; when it is said that in this country from universities and research centres there is no transfer to the industrial sector or to the business, it is not true. And we are doing a great injustice, because 40 percent of the entries that get, for example, the Search Center, are projects that come and are related to the world of the business; so this transfer is there. And when companies come here and settle down in Catalonia, they know where we are, they know what situation we have, they know what the price of the soil is, they know what the price of energy is and, unfortunately, they come. That means..., and businesses, if they come here and settle in, it's to earn money, it's not to do charity work. And, therefore, it means that although they are all in a competitive environment, this is what we have to offer and we want to continue offering from Catalonia. You said: "We devote more resources to foreign policy. We would like to allocate resources in foreign policy. In fact, we have always, as in Action, tried to keep and increase the pressure and, moreover, what we have tried to do is to open those offices..., because we have not opened and we will continue to do so, this opening policy will be there, and we will go and open the offices where we believe it has gone for Catalan businesses. And if it's in sub-Saharan Africa, it's in sub-Saharan Africa; if it's in Ibero-America, it's in Ibero-America, and if it's in Iran, it's in Iran, because if there are investment projects in which there are Catalan companies or we can try to capture investment from these countries over here, we'll go and we'll be at the side of the companies. And since I was talking about resources per inhabitant, I'll tell you what is the result of the public investment that Action does with its assumptions and what it returns to society as a whole. So, miri, for each public euro of mortgage that has been invested in Catalonia Trade & Investment, they have managed to earn 149,8_euros of investment; therefore, 1_euro is invested on the part of the public mortgage, which means on the part of the taxes of Catalonia, 150_euros of investment achieved and assets for Catalonia Trade & Investment. And for every €682 Catalonia Trade & Investment has created a place of work. Therefore, this is a cheap grant to create jobs, and it's the reversal and it's the job that does – that does – Action through Catalonia Trade & Investment. And, besides, of these hundred and twelve projects that I had told you that these last two years have been managed through Action and with what have come investment projects, 40 per cent were greenfield projects, that they were investment projects that were companies that were not established many times in Europe and have come and settled in Catalonia. Therefore, come and settle in Catalonia..., if we look at which countries are the countries in which we have managed this investment, come from the United States, come from France, come from Germany ; also come from Holland and come from Luxembourg. The Netherlands and Luxembourg are basically fiscal reasons. But the United States, France, Germany and Italy, which are the main countries that bring companies to Catalonia, know the situation we find ourselves in, know what we are doing, and unfortunately they are all coming. So, mistrust, corporate flight, and other things that they want to say, it's not true, it's not... and more so. More than they're per, man! , put in full that we are a solid economy. Many of the investments are reinvestments of multinational companies that are installed and that make new investment. This means that they came, that they have settled here, that they have seen that they have potential here, that they have market and expand their investment. And this is another one of the factors and elements that we want to do. And I'm already saying this: and all this, with the actions we have, that it's the universities, an open university and with an international faculty presence, that it's what we want, because we have it of quality, with a professional formation that brings students and people who can work in these companies, also, and without certain instruments that we would like to have, like infrastructures that connect us directly to Europe and make us more efficient in Europe, and also a tax policy and a fiscal policy that allows us to decide at all times what it is that we want to offer our businesses. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.9.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the quality of the area]] [[300-00041/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the quality of the area presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Lord Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.10.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselors, we believe that we need to plant in the face of atmospheric contamination. We have a public health problem. We also have an industrial problem. Before that, this inquiry that they did to the company councilman... so we also have an industrial problem that I will refer to later. And the contamination of the area in the area of Barcelona, this area in a wide sense, is one of the main challenges facing the administrations and also facing and facing the Government of the Generality of Catalonia. It is not the only one, but terrestrial mobility is the main cause of atmospheric contamination. And, as a consequence of this problem, which we all know..., and we all know that the shields that the European Union and the same World Health Organization are staring at as desirable standards are not to be overcome. Counselor, the measures that the Government of the Generality has taken so far and that it has set in motion in recent years its Government, and also previous governments, against pollution do not just give results. Administrations do not just give satisfactory answers to the problem we have. And we, the Socialist Group, are concerned about this situation. I have to assume that you too, but we find that the leadership on the part of the Government of the Generality is lacking in this issue, which is not a minor issue. And we'll tell you why we're missing leadership: you can't trust everything – you know that this is my position, not now, but for a long time – on voluntary agreements; nor on the voluntarism of administrations, or transferring responsibility to local administration when the issue is complicated, as does the Area Quality Plan, despite these administrations, local administrations, above all metropolitans, also have assigned competitions in environmental matters. And, every year, the control stations, the measuring stations that we have deployed in the territory, exceed the values of nitrogen oxides established for the European Union, and also particles. The economic crisis that we have experienced these past years has had an effect of decreasing pollution, but with the arrival of the first symptoms of recovery we have noticed that this problem is returning. Of the thirty control stations we have in Barcelona, the metropolitan area, the Baix Llobregat and the Vallesos, the past year, twelve, practically half..., failed to comply with the European directive for which it does to various contaminants. And this contradicts the analysis of government officials when they say that the quality of the area in general terms is good. We have a problem, because we don't talk about the fact that every day it's over the limits, which happens on time some time later in the year. The problem is that..., and they can tell me: "No, it's that we have a geographic situation in this very complicated environment. Yes, but the problem is that the annual averages, the annual averages, are very close to these limits set by the European Union. The same European Union has also told us, not passively, actively, that the plans we present do not fit or solve the problems we have. And we've got two infraction dispatchers open. And they told him that the plan did not lead to the completion of the standards... of the last plan, but they also told his predecessor, Mr. Recoder, when he presented his Air Quality Plan, which they also rejected. Look, I'd like to put in a few figures to contextualize the problem. Every day, when the cars that come and go from Barcelona cause some kind of accident..., we always have the data of accidents, mortality, etc., and we make campaigns, and it's fine, to make campaigns in this sense. But it is that on the table we have a problem of public salvation, also economic, but of public salvation, very thick, because all scientific experts and in public salvation have warned us, they say, because this is a date that has been parameterized, that the problem of contamination, of pollution, causes in this area some 3,500 premature deaths. And, therefore, this is a problem that I need to address. We have detected, I would say to the engineer, that part of the problem is caused by the use of the vehicle, that is, by transport. In fact, the area of Barcelona is of the most dense areas of transit of the world: 6,100 cars registered per square kilometer in this area. We all know that most of the emissions... the emissions from private transport come from the diesel fleet, above all from the contaminant... one of the problems we have, which are nitrogen oxides. This has been said by various scientific reports, not just in Catalonia, but by the world, and therefore there is no debate here. That is why Europe has set up and implemented Euro 6 legislation, which has not just started, and therefore we continue to have this problem. We also have an industrial problem, because the plants we have in Catalonia, which are plants that have a component of manufacturing diesel vehicles and that then export to the rest of Europe..., today we know that the German government will approve this year a regulation, an ordinance, that will allow from the year 2017 diesel cars do not enter the big urban nuclei. Here we also have a job... in the automotive industry in Catalonia. We must approach with strong policies what we call..., what I propose to you..., or what I believe would be a great deal of agreement between the administrations, led by the Government of Catalonia, for a compromise for net mobility in this environment, granting impact measures, not only voluntary measures, granting impact measures from their competitions, from the competitions of the local administrations and from the competence of the Government of the State. First of all, I am making a more determined policy in favour of public transport. To the citizens we must give advantages, convenience, efficiency, so that public transport ends. Only with the Public Transport Finance Act, which was approved in the later legislature, is there not enough. You have to deploy, this law, and you have to donate instruments to make a real effort. Investments in transport infrastructure should be prioritized on the assumption that the Government of the Generality will present us, if it is the one presenting, of the year 2016. The environment of the bus fleets and the reduction of taxi emissions are also essential, as the Barcelona Metropolitan Area has already begun to do. But this also requires presuppositional commitments to set time horizons for fleet replacement. I create once in a while the zones of low emissions or urban zones of protected atmosphere. That already makes two-hundred European cities – two-hundred European cities. We wouldn't make anything up. It is only a matter of political decision, and an issue of agreement between the Government of the Generality and the Central Government, or the Directorate General..., of Trànsit. To do what? Home, to introduce the labelling of vehicles that allow us to make policies of positive discrimination in favour of citizens in these areas, to know which types of vehicles may or may not enter these areas of protected atmosphere. And, Mr Councillor, we are also of the opinion that any kind of public policy that improves the diesel industry should be completed. I, from the point of view of the example measures that the Administration would have to do..., is to make a determined policy... We know that the trencaclosques, the puzzle, to solve this issue requires various measures. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] But the Administration has the obligation to lead – and I finish, president – the electrification of mobility..., and therefore with a clear bet in favor of the electric vehicle in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.11.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Further, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Josep Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.12.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first term, I would like to thank you for this question, the same one that the Group of the European People's Party used in a couple of steps. Because we are talking about a problem that exists, a problem that is transcendent, in this country. Do we have a problem with the quality of the area in the Barcelona area? Yeah. It's a problem we don't want to minimize, but we shouldn't be magnifying either. Because it is precisely the exact knowledge of the problem, the identification of its real natural, the only one that can allow us to design and apply suitable solutions. We have a European Union_mark which determines which are the conditions of the quality of the area to be guaranteed. Most large European cities do not satisfy them. Totes overtaken, in lesser or greater measure, some of the llindars. And I don't say for consolation or for relativization. To put it some way, I say this to emphasize that this is not a Barcelona problem and its area because it is Barcelona and its area, but Barcelona and its area because, like the others, it is a dense metropolitan agglomeration. And this element already gives us some clue, and you pointed it out, from which is the basis of the problem, which is the main element we have, and you and we identify it in the field of mobility. Mobility has a role, a leading role, very prominent in this problem, which is the basis of the inquiry that we have before us. And you've explained it very well, too. When we talk about atmospheric contamination, we can talk about two different situations. On the one hand, we have episodes where concentrations of some contaminant are very different, and are usually linked to unfavourable weather conditions. By the way, this happens very often, and we have protocols that are very clear, very strong, very round, that make us make decisions that are very drastic: restrict motorized circulation, limit activities, prepare service for people with respiratory problems. You're always better. But that's what we have in mind. The concrete episodes we have are well oriented. And, for another band, we have the structural problem, which are the usual daily levels. Of the set of parameters that the European Union establishes, there are two, and you have raised it, there are two that are the ones that concern us most. For a band, the particles, the PM10, which have gradually reduced in the last few years, and here we have evolved positively, but, and we have to recognise, Mr. MP, we have been stuck in nitrogen oxides. We have not been able, in the last fifteen years, to stabilize this contaminating element, this element that affects the quality of the air in our country. So, what's the repte? And that's very important that we can identify it, and we can push it forward, overtly overtly overtly: we need to be able to elongate from this limit that sets, that recommends the WHO, from a point of view of nitrogen oxides. But, fix's, we have a structural problem, we need structural answers. We don't have... – and this is the basis of the issue, and if we agree on this, we think we can get out of it, but we need a high level of complicity and coordination – we don't have a big contaminating focus that can remove a surgeon, but we have a systemic malaise that requires the intervention of many people. That's the basic idea. We do not have a specific, concrete focus, on which we can act very directly, with this half-hour that we intended to remove, because in the measure that we know that mobility has a very important role to play, we must be able to take various actions. We must avoid, therefore, honourable Member, two dangers: inaction and overaction. Inaction, in the sense of feeling overwhelmed by the enormous difficulty of impacting on mobility in a way that causes significant changes. We, too, have set ourselves an objective, which is: at the time of 2025, we must be able to reduce the number of vehicles entering the area of Barcelona by between 25 and 30_per_cent, which we considered to be these forty municipalities that are part of this area of special protection. This is the opposite, this is the objective, that fewer cars circulate and that those that circulate in this area are cleaner cars. So the first risk we have is inaction. We will not be paralyzed before this topic. It's an important repte, a repte of country. But, I mean, according to the risk that we have, that's overperformance. And overperformance in the sense of entering a menu of proposals contests without having assessed its applicability and, above all, its effectiveness at the time of reducing contamination. Let's say it in a straight way: in the end, the value of any measure is not its photogenicity, it's not a measure that generates headlines, but how much concretely reduces the contamination. This is the base. Therefore, we will not have great macro-measures that in a three and nothing else solve everything, but many micro-measures that will demand the intervention of many agents. And you put it on display, you put it on the table. The government will lead the corresponding one and mark the great strategic lines. And we want this Parliament to cooperate actively. But there will have to be competition from other public administrations, entities, businesses, unions, and compromises to apply the solutions. Therefore, it is the coordination that must enable us to win this battle. Relevant analysis, do not minimize but do not magnify which is the situation and conjure ourselves against these two risks that we have: inaction and overaction. What instruments? What instruments do they have? We have, in one band, the Pla de migliora of the quality of the air. For us, what is the most important thing about this plan? Not only the concrete measures, but the governance bodies that we have, that go in this line of being able to act in a coordinated way, in a joint way, because some decisions can be taken from Catalonia, from the Generality of Catalonia; from others, the joints have a very important role; from others, it will have to be the port or airport or the General Administration of the State that can act. What we need is for there to be this highest level of coordination. We have the Air Quality Table, which is precisely the main instrument of governance of this Pla of better quality of the air. We held a meeting just a month ago, a month and a half ago, and we took a couple of decisions that are transcendent. The first is: this table will be systematically assembled every two months. We don't want it to be a routine governance organ, but we want it to be very operational. We have already created..., we have planned to create three sub-groups of work in line with you, to take concrete measures, not only to encourage, but – and after the second intervention there will be more substantive ones – to take concrete measures. Who are these three sub-groups of work that we have set up. A first, led by the Generality, to reduce access to Barcelona's conurbation coordinated by the General Directorate of Transport and Mobility, which is what I said to him: we must be able to stop at 2025 to reduce the number of vehicles, the volume of vehicles entering this area of Barcelona, in this area of the forty municipalities; first idea. Second, a commodity distribution group, in this case coordinated by the ATM, to optimize the capillary distribution area – this is also very relevant – and put a concrete emphasis on the last mile, such as this merchandise distribution. And the third, that for us, perhaps, is the most uplifting and the most operational and the most concrete and in which we will be the most powerful all – all – that is the working group to define and fill the ZUAP, urban areas with protected atmosphere. And what's the main decision we made? It cannot be that the Barcelona Assembly with good will and good criteria takes its initials, that the metropolitan area takes its initials and that the Government of Catalonia takes its initials and that it wanders simply in parallel in the best of cases and in an uncoordinated way in other cases. And here it's not that I wander these separate groups, it's just unifying the three groups, making decisions, and that's effective, concrete, limiting decisions; that's the only way we get out. This is a basic element of leadership that we need to share all folds. Table of the Quality of the Air...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.13.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.14.0	... three subgroups – I finish, president – concrete, effective decisions that we would like to be able to continue to agree with you. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.15.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.16.0	I agree with you on one thing, that it doesn't add to the problem, but the problem we have at the top of the table, huh? , which is also parameterized for all public health experts: 3,500 premature deaths is a problem. It is a problem, moreover, for the salvation of the country, for the economy of the country. What I'm asking you is that the Government of the Generalitat is exactly leading this concert table, and if you need to appear publicly, then the representatives of the Barcelona City Council, the metropolitan area and the Government of the Generalitat who are doing it, huh? Because today, coming to the Parliament of Catalonia, he was listening to some of the actions that the Barcelona City Council intended to promote and it sounded to me that they did not have a sense of coordination respecting global policies. You say: "No, it is not a matter of overacting. Well, we're at a political stage that we can take, huh? And, therefore, how we have a very big problem here that affects public health but that it can affect a very important industrial sector, that we plant and plant it is of whether we can manage that in a term of six months this table of concertation that there is, with these three vectors that are working and some more that have neglected, therefore, can end up presenting public results, appreciable, that do not follow only voluntary measures. It is a matter of fitting the trencaclosques and, between this trencaclosques case, we would like to know his opinion respect the later contributions that scientists of the CSIC, the Creal and the Autonomous University of Barcelona and the Politecnica have made respect for how to order or start making active proposals, proposals, respect the problems that we have in the face of the table. We also know that beyond the traffic we have a problem, which is the port of Barcelona. And here we would also like to ask him his opinion on whether we need to address the electrification of the port, in the sense that ships that are docked, therefore, do not serve the fuels that are being used, that cause a problem of contamination in a very clean environment or in the barrels proper to the port; if the Government has analysed, in the law of accompanying assumptions, fix a tax similar to that of the landings and landings of planes at the Prat airport – this is a debate that arose when the law was approved and that the Government did not want to address, but here we also have a problem –; whether they think to do so or not. Says: "We have to get that by 2025 fewer cars. All right, but it's just that every time they get into this area. And I gave it to him fifteen days ago, when we approached the Climate Change Law: the only tax they have fixed on this law that can end up producing is a benefit in diesel-powered cars, which are the ones that cause a significant part of the quality problem of the area we have in the Barcelona area. And as we have this geographic situation, in this visit of a Barcelona that went beyond the city and a metropolitan area that went beyond the metropolitan area, you know that part of the contamination that is produced in this environment by the corridor of the Besòs and the Congost up to and up to the East Valley in Osona – in the East Valley with problems of nitrogen oxides and particulate matter and Osona in the form of ozó. I understand that the next week for mayors of the Eastern Vallès – mayors and mayors – will meet with you to address this issue, and I wish that the answer will not be that there is no need to charge the scientific studies dedicated to trying to analyze what is going on, the internal and external causes, and how to try to solve this problem that originates in the oak of the ou and that in the form of the three contaminating elements that I have been exposing it is produced in the Eastern Vallès, a part of the West and also in the city of Vic or in the region of Osona. Therefore, we have a problem that affects not only the central area, but also the conjunct of the territory, and I call for leadership.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.17.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.18.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, let us go to these concrete measures which we must be able to lay down. We spoke very concretely about the area of Barcelona. Here the contamination of nitrogen oxides is obvious. You've also raised other issues we have in the country. The subject of ozo worries us, it worries us. It affects the conjunct of the national territory and, in a very concrete way, some regions. The region of Osona has already expressed itself on various occasions in the sense of pointing out that this is a problem and requires specific action. Let us take concrete steps. I would like to explain some concrete measures that we, together with the Government, have already taken. There's one we're already duet in term, which is: in the tolls of the Generality of Catalonia, of ownership of the Generality of Catalonia, electric cars have an exemption of the cent_per_cent. This is an important line that we need to aim for. We need to keep perfecting these loading points and fast loading points. From this perspective, Catalonia is very advanced, it is a country of reference in this sense. We'll modify the bonuses to the generality's tolls so that we don't improve diesel vehicles. This is an immediate decision to make, to make. And, finally, the announcement that we will establish, by decree, that the purchase of fleets of vehicles by public administrations remains only electric vehicles, hybrids, LPG, compressed natural gas, and will only be justified in case of lack of availability. This is also a concrete line. We must be... – the public administrations, not only the Generalitat de Catalunya –, the public administrations must be exemplary from this perspective. And then there is the big challenge, the big issue, which here is a very important part of local competitions, which is to delimit the low-emission zones, on which the assemblies, together with the Generality, will have to decide and position themselves. And that's why it's so important to know whose fleet we have and to get to define, to have a very comprehensive description of what kind of cars we have in this country today. And so, the whole face of the label is so transcendent. It is only possible to make operational decisions in these low-emission zones restricting the limitation of some vehicles if we are able to identify perfectly what kind of vehicles we are talking about, and power – and power – not only to make these limitations, but to act with one, if I may, positive discrimination, encouraging those vehicles that are clear. That's what I gave him in relation to the tolls. There is a point that is basic, and that it was one of the essential topics of discussion in the inquiry of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, that it is if we must restrict or we must achieve that there is less private vehicle in urban conurbations, what we need is to boost much public transport. And here we have to... take decisions that go on a very good line. That is to say, the year we spent in this Parliament, in this same chamber, we approved the Public Transport Finance Act, we're deploying it, and we're going to have the rule this year. It will not happen as with the Law of Mobility, which the regulation we have held to the head for many years, but we must act immediately. There is the great project that is T-Mobility, which goes on this line, which is what will allow us to encourage in a very clear, very concrete, very strong way, the use of public transport. And here we must establish a unit of action. We have a mode of transport that today is not competitive enough. And I'll end this, which is the roll system: it doesn't work for us, it doesn't work for us. I have already announced that the Government of Catalonia will take decisions this same year on the services we want to circulate in the rolling stock system. But we need reliability, we need to expand the capacity of the system, this is the trunk that's failing us. We cannot ask the citizen not to use the private car if we are not able to donate powerful alternatives to the public transport level. And so, when we talk about rollers, when we talk about T-Mobility, when we talk about all these elements, in a very good measure we are talking about which country we want, from a point of view of its quality in the area, and from a point of view of a mobility that is sustainable and safe. This is a priority, not of the Government of Catalonia, but we are convinced that it is an extended priority shared by this chamber, a national abst priority of the country. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.19.0	The next item is the question to the Government on environmental security presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. [[Question to the Government on environmental security]] [[300-00043/11]] To expose it, has the word Francisco Javier Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.20.0	Good morning, President. Good morning, Counselor, deputies and guests. First of all, I want to clarify the title, because it is environmental safety, but what I really should say is 'environmental safety'. Having made this caveat, to get into the matter, I wanted to start by saying that in recent years we have suffered a series of forest fires, which I am sure we all have in mind. In 2013 there was one of 400_hectares in Baix Empordà ; in 2014, one huge in Tivissa and another, again, in Baix Empordà ; in 2015 1,200_hectares were burned in Ódena, and these last days there have already been, as a start of the campaign, fires in Cornudella, in Alforja and the last in Llançà, which burned 12_hectares. But this refers to the resolution of an emergency, which applies a plan, which is the Infocat, and in which all security bodies and emergencies participate. I wanted to introduce this, because it is a very media aspect, a forest fire, but environmental safety is more than that. This should be dealt with, in any case, in the Home Office, and I already advanced that what I wanted to talk to was the Agriculture Office, so I will not talk about extinction, nor about firefighters, nor about the cooperation protocols that have to be better profiled between bodies. Nor am I going to focus too much on prevention work, which is planned from the technical body of the Generalitat, because I know that work is done like those that were announced recently of biomass reduction in the Llaberia saw, with a budget of 160,000_euros, which thus seems to be a lot of money, but really for prevention work it is a little bit scarce. So the first question is: what budget are we talking about for prevention work, really? I also know that clues are being opened to improve access to forest masses. And then, again, I see Cardó's saw, which I made a comment to him the other time, which is in serious doubt that it has acted properly. There is a subject that is denounced and wanted to know how this complaint is, whether it has prospered, whether measures have been taken... ; I would like you to explain to me the situation of this opening of clues. But it was not my intention to speak strictly of this either. In any case, we will be talking about fires and specific prevention measures throughout the legislature. What I want to talk about today is environmental safety. And, for starters, I wanted to explain what I mean by environmental safety. I've summed it up in five blocks. The first block would be..., environmental security are forest fires, which, as I have named before..., work on prevention, investigation of causes and authories, an action plan based on hazard maps, controlled burns, inspection of power lines, control of the fires until firefighters come, and participate in emergency plans: Infocat, Inuncat, Camcat and Neucat. This would be the block of fires and emergencies. Another environmental safety block would be the management of activities, both forestry and any other type of activities in the natural and rural environment. In other words, environmental security would be the control of forest exploitation, pests, control of agricultural activities, livestock, polluting discharges... The third block would be the control of fauna and flora, which I understand for environmental safety also have the censuses of animal and vegetable populations, wild animals, domestic animals, control of mistreatment, zoos, hunting, fishing... I'm summarizing it like this, quickly, huh? The fourth block would be the integrity of the environment: natural and rural environment, landscape, activities of the natural spaces, the accesses and uses made of those spaces, the monitoring of works with environmental impact assessment, urban planning activities, air pollution, state of the water. And finally, the fifth block, would be social awareness, that is, dissemination and education: advice, information campaigns, citizen awareness, environmental education, public talks...; all this would also include it within environmental security. So, if we take all these functions more than I've been leaving myself, because I wanted to make a summary, it turns out that it is the competence of the Rural Agents Corps, which marks Law 17/2003. That is to say, a rural agent, an agent of the Rural Agents Corps, we can see him investigating the origin of a fire, or inspecting the cutting of trees, or rescuing a chicken of a protected species that has fallen, or censusing wild boars, or denouncing an irregular urban occupation, or giving a talk in a primary class. According to the Autonomous Statute of Catalonia, and I read literally: "In the field of environment and natural spaces, the Generalitat exercises its powers through the Rural Agents Corps, which are competent in the surveillance, control, protection, comprehensive prevention and collaboration in the management of the environment. The members of this corps are officers of the authority and serve as special administrative police and judicial police. If we recognize that these functions are basic and important for environmental preservation, we should have an appropriate body; a well-established, well-established, trained, specialized body, with sufficient human resources and materials, and with clearly defined competencies. That is, a recognized, technologicalized and dignified body. But, if you look... I already know that the counselor knows all this, but she also spoke to the rest of the camera. I wanted to explain the functions, because it is evident that there is a lack of knowledge on the part of the population in general of what the Rural Agents Corps is, because they are in a certain marginality. And now comes the question part. The first question is not exactly a question, it is a congratulations, because there was a sentence of an irregularity with the commanding officer's charges, and after four years the bull has been caught by the horns and that sentence has been executed and the charges have been removed and it is starting again with..., there were irregularly named charges and this situation is being corrected. So the first question is no longer a question is a congratulations, is it not? Anyway, it would be good if you could explain how these squares are going to be filled, in what terms and, above all, if you are going to take advantage of this small restructuring to improve the structure of the body. The second question is that, after the fire in Horta de Sant Joan, a number of recommendations were issued. And, well, some have been corrected, like the Cos d'Agents Rurals has integrated into 112, but others remain pending; but this 2010, we are to 2016, it has been six years. It would then be necessary to improve the means and resources for the prevention of the CAR, such as the increase in staffing, training and vehicles. Technical capacity would need to be enhanced, with the deployment of the categories of inspectors, sub-inspectors, major agents and officers effective. And it would remain to be implemented guard systems, both in person and available, but with new places, of course, not to burden the people who are already doing this job, but to provide new places to cover the schedule. All this..., essentially are the recommendations of an opinion after a misfortune, which is why I introduced the fire at first, because the misfortunes then provide solutions to prevent this from happening. And I reserve the rest of the questions for the second round, okay? That's how you answer me and... okay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.21.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of the Agriculture Advisor, Ramaderia, Fishing and Food, Mrs Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.22.0	Hello, very good morning. Thank you, Madam President. MPs, MPs; Mr Francisco Domínguez, thank you for offering today the opportunity to, as you say, talk about a thing, that of Rural Agents, which we also appreciate today that there are representatives here of this thing and of your union, of Asparc. First of all, I repeat, huh? Thank you for being able to talk today about a thing that, as God is essential and that is... we could say a fundamental structure for the country and more in the country and Catalan Republic project that we want to build and that we have some in the project. So, if you'll excuse me, you've already done a first description of what this is and what this thing is about, but I'd like to expand it and, if it can be, reinforce it a little, because we're still aware of what we have in our hands when we talk about rural agents. First, as I said, it is a basic structure, organized into forty basic areas that supply the whole territory and that have a more or less regional scope; for these there are six regional areas and one general area, in total – in total – they supply, as I said, the whole territory of Catalonia and currently there are about 495 effects. That is to say, 495 people who have to cover the whole territory of Catalonia. And this territorial coverage, as I said, does not need people, as it is a matter of responsibility, as I have pointed out in those five blocks of functions..., basically it is responsible for monitoring, controlling, managing a natural environment from a comprehensive protection and prevention perspective, and with an essential task, such as the prevention of forest fires, the management of protected natural spaces and the protection and management of wildlife, hunting and river fisheries. I want to fill in the important task that they are developing, also, in a matter of substance, and that you have also noted, which is environmental disclosure and education, more than any information and advice service to citizens for what they do to environmentally-friendly pipelines, and especially because we also need to put it in value and know how to work, I would say, from all sides and all agents – the monitoring and support that agricultural and forestry professionals carry out to drive every best practice and sustainable environmental management. And say together because it's a dialog, and we have to get it to be a dialog, always. About five hundred people who integrate this thing have the condition of officers of the judicial authority and police, as you pointed out before, and this means that they will see that the management of our media is correct. Also at the urban level. Let us not forget, too, that this is one of the skills they have and that we thank them, too, that they develop. And now I'm also trying to prevent conflicts, that's to say, they do have sanctioning power, but also this vision and this mediating attitude when it comes to it. And here I would also like to point out that our Rural Agents' Centre is, as you know, involved in all the civil protection plans, and that it is integrated into the entire security system of Catalonia and the Rescue network; all the programs that you aim for, the wide list of Focus, Unounced, Neucat, Camcat, Allaucat, Procicate, Radcat and Pemont, and that it also collaborates with all the other things that have functions of security and fire prevention and extinguishing, and the Emergency Trucades Service and Management Centre of 112. And here is also a brief reminder that during 2015 these nearly five hundred people, places we have to cover the whole territory, have done 133,305 performances, 64,295 inspections, almost 3,000 complaints and almost 150 attestations, 136,652 communications and authorizations to fire – always controlled –, more than 5,000 animal collections, almost 44,000 responses to 112 tricks, and, also, the one that pointed out, very important, more than 1,000 speakers to more than 36,000 schoolchildren, to make this task of environmental education, and, therefore, to give more to our society the work that we have to do and how we have to manage the environment. As you can see, rural agents are a structure..., this is a structure of state, a foundational structure for our country and that actually years ago it claims a restructuring and an inn a day that takes into account the resources available until social consideration and all cooperation with the other things that exist in our country. And we, this government, and from the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, have decided to take the steps because this is done. The restructuring of the body has been one of the priorities of this department since the first day of the current legislature, and why do we make it clear that the demand we have been claiming, and, as you should have said, years ago, right? , which has been pointing out recommendations, etcetera, is legitimate and more than justified. We need to strengthen him and equip him with a structure. So we knew that we had, when we entered the legislature, a situation that needed to be faced; we had to do it together with the same direction of the body, with the agents and their trade union representatives; we took and completed the judgment of the High Court of Justice, which was effective on April 6, which annulled eleven places of work corresponding to the command of the body. Eleven persons of his duties have ceased from there: two heads of the basic area of these areas; one head of the regional area, concretely from Ponent, from the Lands of Lleida, and all these people are officials; therefore, four have gone to occupy other places of command which they had previously assigned, seven have returned to their previous categories. On these days... we've been waiting for a couple of days to get in, so we've been applying to Public Service since DARP, haven't we? , is called the provisional provision of these jobs that have remained vacant so as to be able to guarantee the normal functioning of the Rural Agents Cos. Meanwhile, during these days of stalemate, right? , of the cessation of these commands, the operation of the body is guaranteed through the assumption of the basic functions by the commands that correspond at regional level or by part of the general area, in the case of the Ponent region. And, on the other hand, the most important thing is that we want to incorporate in the 2016 budget an increment of Chapter I equivalent to fifteen places of work with the objective of initiating the deployment of the sub-inspector category, category that corresponds to the request that is asked in the judgment of the High Court of Justice. Moreover, it is planned to strengthen the structure of the same Rural Agents' Centre by providing the regional area of the Pyrenees. So, a long extension, which is all Ponent, we think it will be much better for jobs and for the same organizational capacity. It is clear to the department that, before this situation that has been going on for many years and that it has not yet taken place, it is necessary to restructure and strengthen an essential public service like this. And these are just the first steps that we think we need to take to reverse the trend of the later years of reducing the number of effects and improving the structure and technology of the body. But I also want to point out that since the year 2015 123 training activities have been carried out between the same Rural Agents' Centre, in which some 420 officers participated, and all the commanders have refused training in management and team leadership. We have also made a knowledge transfer and all of a specialized training for the use of weapons, which is planned during 2016, that will only make those agents who are part of the Special Group on Cinematic Management and Capture of Animals and the Special Group on Verins and Antifurtivism. And, in addition, we can also put, for example, at the training level, the cross-border wildlife management seminar, held now, at the end of April, in which we could also share impressions and experience and good practices of rural agents. At the level of training forecasts, we have a whole training plan, a course in wildlife management, anti-furtivism, commands, basic fire investigation, external courses, etc. We are aware that we do not have to stay here; as we have more assumptions, we must continue to respond to the needs that lie ahead and above all to explain to society the function that this thing has, and also to thank its ability to adapt to the present time and to the challenge that it poses all this changing world and global change; its proximity and its knowledge of the territory – they are people, great professionals, who, with a great vocation, know and do excellent management in order to manage our territory better, and, above all, because they do so from a perspective of common good and country building. And then we'll go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.23.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.24.0	Thank you, President. Well; thank you, Counselor, for your attitude towards this thing; it seems to me that it is the right one, but, well, I..., my position is to follow. The third question I wanted to ask you was a mandate. The word this was a little cursed, lately, but yes, we have a mandate, which is to comply with the motions that are approved in this Parliament. The same as there was a court ruling after the Horta fires, for example, there is, for example, Motion 28/X, on forest fire prevention, which requires, in short, a timetable for the deployment of the body, creating an adequate guard system and improving the means and resources of the CAR, eh? But, apart from that, I was talking about communication, about acting on the cos web, and this last one I find very serious. I already know that it is not the fault of the incoming government, because it has been three months, but I find it serious because of its easy solution. I mean, I've been looking at the web today to prepare this for me, and it turns out that there are updated pages of 2009, or updated pages of 2011, or the last memory of the activities he said before the body's performances..., since the last one that is hung on the web is of 2013, neither 14 nor 15. So this is relatively easy to solve to provide information to citizens and people who are interested, but then, too, things that are also relatively easy, such as the performance map of the Alpha board, which very easily indicates the level of performance according to the fire risk, that you have to search the map on the web and there is no way to find it. That is, one way of communicating and transmitting to the citizenry the importance of a topic is the ease of access through networks, which is where I think 99_per_cent of the current population is looking at information, isn't it? Then I'd like to know if you've already thought of anything to modernize and update the web. The third question, or the next mandate, would be Motion 83/X, which is a motion approved in this Parliament, which I read literally, because it would be one more of the same: "Strengthening the cos of rural agents as an essential tool with the necessary endowment and training to become a cos of vigilance and... – the same as always – "and putting in a way mechanisms of collaboration and coordination with other competent bodies. This is a rhetorical question, because we have already been answering it, but we still have a motion approved in Parliament that is pending. And with regard to the five hundred agents who have been appointed, if these five hundred agents are subtracted from the surplus, we subtract the casualties, the daily reductions, the union delegates, agents who have some kind of adaptation due to mobility difficulties or for any other reason, specialized agents who are not intended for the territory which in theory is close to them, we are left with two hundred agents, active, and I do not know whether simultaneously, eh? Then out of the five hundred we stayed in two hundred; with this the situation is more serious than it might seem, because five hundred sounds very good, but two hundred no longer sounds so good. That, if we translate it to the number of hectares that each couple of agents has to monitor, because it gives a brutal ratio, apart from the difficulties intrinsic to each of the areas, such as the largest area of natural spaces in the Ripollès and in the Alt Urgell, or a greater difficulty to access the diffusion and education of the schoolchildren in Barcelona and the metropolitan area. What do we have to do with the progressive ageing of the Cos d'Agents Rurals? I know that the rural population has a problem that is aging, but we do not need that problem to be transferred to the body that works in the rural environment. And in closing, which I have very little left, rural agents must have much more presence and must be visible to the population and must not be confused with other workers such as ADF, vigilantes and guards, who are neither agents of authority nor agents such as rural agents. Then, the promotion of agents is true that since 2009 nothing has been done; then, the staff would have to cover everything that is, at least, casualties, retirements, surpluses... And, to sum up – which I see is already over – what we would like is to ensure environmental safety, for which we have to have a specialized and prestigious security body, which I hope, with the help of everyone, we know how to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.25.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, there's the word "counsel."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.26.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you once again for the repetition, because we certainly need to move all the folds much closer to the better part of the body, and that, whether we say it or not, will also go through a better part of the assumptions and the ability to finance, won't it? , of the structures of our state and our country. Here..., I try to answer, from a band, some of the fears that I had not given time before answering. A very quick incis on Cardo's greenhouse, which we said afterward: they are working, they are doing actions of perimeter fringes to prevent fires. There was some concrete case in which the environmental impact study had not been carried out and has been developed, and in principle it is, right? , frame the issue and trust that it is possible to resolve without any more incidences and we can finish all the work that falls in the face of fire prevention. On the website of the Cos d'Agents Rurals, I will not deny you, in no case, that you need to improve it. Actually, we've got it, haven't we? , also from the department, from the consulting the bet to improve all that is the communication and the communication plan of the same Department of Agriculture. We are working hard, with the aim of improving the information of rural agents, but also all the general information of the department, for greater transparency and accessibility of the citizenry to a department that contains information that we believe is also transcendental, isn't it? For our society, which is all about food, our primary sector and, of course, all the management that we do as an old and better environmental management. And in this sense in the very weeks, months, we are getting better, and all this information that we are updating now, every day more, we are looking to have it also on our web page. In other matters, we are able to do so, in this too. For what you do to measure, right? , of assumptions and, above all, which are reflected in all the demands and needs that there is at the staffing level, now as now, our assumption in fire prevention management, which also pointed out, is of 13_million_i_mig of euros per year, which, as I am sure, seem very much, but taking into account that we are a country eminently forest– 60_percent of our territory is forest– does not give, surely, to cover as much as we want. But, still, let's look at it and the goal is to be more efficient every time and make these money serve to make an effective management and prioritize where else. And of these are unfolding, of these 13_million_i_mig are also unfolding all those elements of support that..., of assumptions for support brigades in question of summer campaigns. At the same time, for what it does to the number of vacant places we are clear that we first have to complete the sentence and we are not planning the deployment, and, according to the presuppositional capacity that we are going to have for 2016 and subsequent years, we will be able to go expanding and responding to all requests to supplement downloads and above all, to generate those nine places that are needed to size and fit the thing as it should be. And we will always take into account the very basis of interests that have already been approved by some oppositions and that now as they do not count for the moment; this is also a priority that we clearly need to keep and keep very much in mind. And we know and know that the body needs more action, it also needs to be strengthened with personal format, specialisation and generational content, but the presuppositional availabilities are what they are, and we have the compromise, and we will do so, by gradually supplanting it, as we can, but above all with a very clear vision of technifying, restructuring and empowering as well as giving a lot of social vision to the work done by rural agents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.27.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the judicialization of politics]] [[300-00044/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the judicialization of politics presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for the Yes. To expose her, Mr. Roger Torrent has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.28.0	Thank you, President. Well, good morning; good morning, counselor. We have called this question, we have called it "the judicialization of politics, and it seems to us that it is an explicit title. Now, I'd like to start, counselor, by making a promise that it seems to me that it's completely honest to do, and that's that this inquiry won't have a legal position, it can't have it, it can't have a legal position. In fact, he cannot have it because the same Government of the Spanish State has taken charge of instrumentalizing courts and courts, which for another band must be a neutral institution, charged with legal or constitutional litigation, in an instrument to serve this cause of the Government of the State to go against the legitimate, majority and democratic aspirations of the people of Catalonia, especially after 27 September, therefore, especially after this democratic mandate, which was held against us by the citizens of Catalonia to continue in this way. In a state of mature law, with deep and consolidated democracy, the legal aspects are addressed in the legal sphere and the political aspects are addressed in the political sphere. So, in a low-cost democracy like the one we have in the state, that's just the opposite. And those aspects that should be discussed from a strictly political point of view, because they are political, they are transferred to the judicial institutions, they are transferred to these tools that today, at these times, the Government of the State makes use of to attack, to go against the process that has begun in this country. In democracy, political questions are discussed, debated, agreed, sought agreements and, above all, voted; but they are not brought to court, they are not brought before the courts. Because in democracy, as we say, political questions have to be resolved with more politics, that is, with more democracy. And we recently find that, as a result of this tendency of the Government of the State to prosecute everything that is political, we went one after the other, judgments and appeals of the Constitutional Court. In fact, the data on the Constitution's sentences and resources are almost as well as the data on the rain: how much did it take today? What happened to us today? Take away the laws, these feelings and these resources, almost, come to us, in bulk; one behind the other, one after the other. And that, in our view, this attitude, and the consequences of this attitude, come basically from three fundamental elements that are very worrying. But they are not worrying from a point of view of the Parliament of Catalonia or from a point of view of a parliamentary group, nor are they worrying from a point of view of the citizens of Catalonia: they are worrying from a point of view of democratic quality, they are worrying from a point of view of basic standards of democratic and advanced society. Who are these elements, when we hear them? First, the ability of the Government of the State to reduce the separation of powers to the bare minimum, often confound every day that it is the execution and that it should be the judiciary, confound the role of one with that of the other and bring to that which is competence and which are the attributions of one, the first, the execution, to the judicial sphere. The second element of concern: this conception that democracy is based not on popular will and, therefore, on citizen legitimacy, but on the law, on legality; this conception of democracy that poses over the legality of legitimacy, over, therefore, the legal mark of popular will expressed through the ballot box. And the third element: the lack of democratic quality, the lack of accreditation with European standards of democracy, which make that what is to be settled for other lives is brought to court. If the Spanish State were a democracy in Britain or a democracy in Canada, the question of Catalonia, this process, these legitimate and major aspirations of the people of Catalonia, would be brought to the polls, not to the courts. But it is clear that the Spanish State does not have the democratic quality levels that they can present, the credentials that they can present mature democracies such as the United Kingdom or Canada. Therefore, these three elements are the ones that lead us, as we say, to a constant loss of feelings and resources against everything that this Parliament legislates. There have been, in the last few years, a thirty-sentences, a thirty-sentences of resources, so a thirty-sentences of laws and dispositions of this Parliament that have fallen; so a thirty-sentences of times that the Government of the State has shut the door to this Parliament; so a thirty-sentences of times that the Government of the Spanish State has closed the door to the sovereignty of this Parliament; so a thirty-sentences of times that the Government of the State has fallen down the tools that we have proposed to help our people; so a thirty-sentences that the Government of the State has closed the door to the citizenship of Catalonia. Thirty sentences, thirty resources that have systematically fallen into question, laws approved by this Parliament. And let's not be fooled: it's not about a technical issue, it's not about a legal issue, it's not about a constitutional issue; it's about a strictly political issue. These feelings, these resources, this attitude, in short, is simply a political question. And there are no feelings or resources that I have to see with flags, as my group companion Eduardo Reyes said yesterday; it has nothing to do with the flags; it has nothing to see and nothing to do with the institutional organization of the Government of Catalonia; it does not have to see with competitions; it does not have to see with questions of legal descent. You have to see with the tools of what we have to help our people; therefore, you have to see with people. Each and every feeling goes against the people of this country, it goes against the Catalans and the Catalans. And they've tried to drop all these laws that we've been building, that we've tried to build, sometimes with broad consensus, sometimes even unanimously in this room, and they've been running around and falling down systemically. To sum up, we could say that two sets of initiatives, or two sets of wills from this Parliament of Catalonia, have been implemented, that have been implemented, that two sets of initiatives, or two sets of wills from this Parliament of Catalonia: for a band, the will to legislate on issues as basic as the right to housing, poor energy, such as equality between men and women, is to say, basic and fundamental elements for Catalonia's citizenship, and for another group, they have also tried to bring down all of us and every single one of us that we have done to try to improve the finances of the Generality, that is to say, impose, for example, on nuclear; it imposes, for example, on bank deposits; it imposes, for example, on empty floors. In sum, in addition to all these taxes which have fallen on us and which, therefore, we cannot apply, we are talking about 700-800 million euros, that is, three times the xoc– 700 or 800_million euros, three times the xoc. Therefore, it is clear that the State has instrumentalized justice, that it has judicialized politics and that it is doing politics through the sensitivities and resources of the Constitution to go against the legitimate aspirations of the people of Catalonia, to go against the sovereignty of this Parliament, that it is trying to create instruments to help our people. Therefore, from all this we conclude that, effectively, the only way to be able to help the citizens of Catalonia from this Parliament is not to depend on the Government of the State, not to depend on the constitutional court, but to have a proper state. And while, counsel– and this is an inquiry that we obviously make to the Government, but we also take advantage to say that we are on the side of the Government –, this while, while we do not have the right state, obviously they are on the side of us..., your Government will have us on its side at the time of defending that all the rights acquired for the citizens of Catalonia in the last few years remain still, remain in force; so that we can continue to help our people. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.29.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of the Councillor of Justicia, Mr. Carles Mundó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.30.0	Good morning, President. Good morning, all of you. My honourable Member, I would like to thank him for his intervention because, certainly, this is a matter that we do not find normal every day, and you have certainly referred to the laws and decisions that this Parliament has taken and that the Government has taken, and that have been systematically suspended and annulled by the Constitutional Court, and I will not be making a relationship with it, perhaps not exhaustive, but I believe it is exemplifying the reality of what we are talking about. The Law of Social Emergencies, the Law of Effective Equality between Men and Women, the Law of Popular Consultations, the Law of Taxes on Emptied Habitats, the Law of Prohibition of Fracking, the Law of Tax on Nuclear Weapons, the Law of Local Governments, the Law of the Fifth Book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, the Law of the Aranes, the Law of the Syndicate of Greuges, the Law of the Study of the Process Constituent, the Law of the Tax of Banks, the Decree of the Law against the Energy Poor, the Decree of the Law of the Syndicate of Commerce, the Law of the Study of the Great Surfaces, the Law of the Tax of Banks, the Law of the Law of the Civil Code against the Energy Poor, the Decree of the Law of Commerce, the Law of the Study of the Process Constituent, the Law of the National Transition, the Law of the Law of the Law of Foreign Law, the Law of the Non-Constitutional Law, the Law of the Non-Constitutional Law of the The laws came to the Constitutional Court, and came from the hand, mostly, of the People's Party government. As he did on his day, they make a historic mistake for the interests of the Spanish State, as is the appeal that on his day presented the Parliamentary Group, then, of the People's Party against the State of Catalonia approved for the citizens of Catalonia in 2006. Certainly, the Spanish Government has contributed with no one to judicialize politics, and has renounced political conduct with arguments and political discussion, and you have overtly overtook it. He has, therefore, transferred to the courts the inability to give political answers, and the courts, certainly, are not to give answer to political questions, there is no point in sticking behind the Constitutional Court, as the PP does. That's not a solution, bringing political issues to court doesn't work to solve problems, and what it does is to cause problems in the same courts. The judicial domes are deeply uncomfortable to solve questions that many times, when they are presented, everyone knows that there is no legal motivation behind them; it is one more tool of the People's Party Government, which uses justice for, many times, not to face its political obligations, the commitments that, when voted by the citizens, have demanded them. Today, the Constitutional Court is a depressing court, and it is totally politicized. Its members count for blocks and count for political affinities, and we're talking about a court of law. In the past few years, whether you like it or not, you have been in the service of the People's Party government to realize your party objectives. The Constitutional Court has been the instrument for re-centralizing the State, always making a restrictive interpretation of the division of powers. The Constitution cannot be interpreted in a single way and Spanish laws are not like a law of physics, in which water always freezes to zero degrees. The Constitutional Court has not been an arbiter to give solutions. He's theoretically arbiter, but this arbiter always carries the samarreta of the other team. And there must be little respect for the courts when, before the Constitutional Court, there is a president who has held the People's Party's Carnet and the PSOE moves away from being able to place its candidates in this court. And we see how the ruling organ of the courts, the General Council of the Judiciary, is always labeled as a progressive or conservative, and it is sorted by those responsible for the judicial organs in votes from twelve to nine. And we see that, when it comes to Catalonia, the Constitutional Court gathers the diumenges late and makes extraordinary sessions to respond to the government's requests, while we have other resources that may not be of interest to the government and that bring lustres of judgment. Clearly, the separation of powers in the State is in crisis. A mature and consolidated democracy would not accept the confusion of legislative power, execution and judicial that exists in Spain, and the Spanish government has often wanted to get to the court where it could not win at the polls. A good example is September 27th, the Catalan elections of September 27th, or don't we remember the gross game played for the State in that election campaign? In fifteen days we saw the statement of the bankers against independence and said that the banks of Catalonia would go away; we heard the governor of the Bank of Spain speaking of corralite and rectifying to the head of two days; we listened to the ridiculous of President Rajoy saying that we would lose the Spanish nationality and he doubted whether the European, ignoring the norms of international law; we read the letter of the President of the European Commission manipulated by someone who would function spavelly said that we would not, that we would be expelled from the European Union; we felt the President of the Episcopal Conference praying for the unity of Spain and saying that independence was immoral, and we felt the Minister of Defence threatening with the armed forces if the Catalans were wrongly concerned; we felt the President of the Bishops' Conference was speaking for the unity of Spain and saying that independence was absolutely immoral, and we felt that the Minister of Defense was threatening with the armed forces; we felt that the president of the Bishops' Conference was not respecting the unity of Spain; we read the President of Spain, and we felt that the same respect for the truth. And we felt threats all along and we felt, of course, threats of the suspension of autonomy and of the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, and we could follow. And it is clear that the Spanish political system has proved unable to respond politically to the political situation in Catalonia as they did, and you have borne that in mind, the British Government and the Government of Scotland. The great Spanish parties have agreed to transfer their inability to act politically to the court, and have made them use them to achieve their political objectives. With the suspensions and annulments of the Constitutional Court, the Spanish Government wanted to apply Article 155 of the Constitution and suspend for the door of behind the autonomy of Catalonia, because what the 135 deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia do systematically defuse the 12 judges of the Constitution. And in addition to nullifying Catalonia's political autonomy, the Government of Rajoy and Montoro have asphyxiated the Generality economically; the State, which collects 95_percent of Catalan taxes and makes the division, is the one that ends up making the assumptions of the Generality, and then assigns to it the incompliments. We have the autonomy actually suspected and the finances actually intervened, and this is the reality, the more it hurts to say it and the more it hurts to feel it. And we cannot resign ourselves to seeing each divining at the meeting of the Council of Ministers detail Catalonia's political and financial autonomy by the back door and bring the Catalan laws to the Constitutional Court abusing the privileges of demanding the automatic suspension of the laws approved by this Parliament as if it were a normal act. And we could continue to present examples of the judicialization of politics: the complaint against the President of the Generality and two government advisers for the 9-N process, a complaint rejected unanimously for the procurators of Catalonia, a complaint that ends up forcing, even though it is not recognized, the exit of the procurator general of the State and that has generated an indisguised discomfort from the judicial agencies that will assume this question that has been politicized. The State has stood in a path without going out on the street carrying a question that is only political: to consult the citizens with ballot boxes; this nobody understands with a democratic feeling for more than they want to make us believe that it is a technical question. Assuring a president of the Generality at the banquet of the accused is the clearest display of political impotence. The State is very wrong to think that the criminal route is the answer to this question. And another example is the abuse and intimidating use of the National Audience that makes about the local world. What explanation do you have to pursue three hundred mayors and governors for having approved political motions in their assemblies? They have not accused them, they make a list of good and painful governors and mayors to identify who completes and who does not complete what the Government of the State dictates in relation to political opinions and takes advantage of to intimidate the local administration's officials. We cannot go on like this, the citizens of Catalonia have to open their eyes, they have to decide whether they are willing to accept this situation from the Spanish institutions or change it. To delegitimize the government and parliament of Catalonia, all is well, as demonstrated by the frontal attack on the tools they want to give response to the social emergencies suffered by the citizens. I'm done, President. With the judicialization of politics, presenting it as a technical response, they take forward the social rights of the citizens of Catalonia and open our self-government. As much as thirty laws have fallen and thirty more have fallen, the obligation of the government and this Parliament is to continue to respond to people's problems. And let's all be very clear: no court will be able to cancel the people's will when they speak in the ballot box with their vote. When most people want it, we have to make a new country that I left behind a state that devotes more effort to annul laws than to give response to social emergencies. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.31.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on health transport]] [[300-00046/11]] The 14th item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on health transport presented by the Junts per el Sí Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word "Mrs. Alba Vergés".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.32.0	Good morning, everybody. Good morning, counselor; good morning, Vice President and Councillor of Justicia, also Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament... So let's talk about health transport again in Parliament. In fact, we haven't talked about it many times, we would say, and the last few months with special attention. And here we have experienced very intense debates, also the last legislature, about the competition, since 2006, and this new model that was implemented in 2006, not now, was the one that most suits us; the discussion about whether it is possible to extend the competition or not is possible to extend... Finally, looking at it well, how it took so much time for this new competition to take place in 2014, in effect, yes it has been many years since 2006, many things have changed, not only have changed things at the level of healthcare, but also that they have changed careers; therefore, the response time that we can give in one place or another and, therefore, I understand that we need to know how to adapt and we need to be able to do things at any given time as we are best able to give answers. And now we are where, with this new competition that is called "the best model of urgent health transport and the change from the control of non-urgent health transport to the SEM, that did not have it until this moment, only that he had the enterprises and the territory mediating the CatSalut. Someone interprets that this new contest has meant a total change of model, others interpret it differently, but what there has been, of course, are changes in this contest, in the name of lots, in the fact that companies have to present in a territory, both in urgent transport and in non-urgent transport. The most important thing he maintained was that, at the service level, he maintained a total separation from the devices and the urgent structure of that dedicated to non-urgent transport and, therefore, the programmed. That's what he kept, I think it's important for the Medical Emergencies System that this separation from service be made clear. And here we are. It is just as we understand each and every one of them, the important fact is that we must try to respond to all the concerns that have come to us from professionals who work in healthcare, in the EMS; from professionals who also work in hospitals and also see how the EMS responds to the arrival of patients; from the territories; from unions, obviously, and here we have tried, as a parliamentary group, not only this Parliament but always, to listen to everyone, and I know that all the groups have received a great deal of professional time, also unionized and also citizens, together with groups that have approved motions that respect this subject and, therefore, I believe that all the delegates have listened very much to what is being understood. So here we are. Here we are and it's the same, and we're looking to respond to these concerns, we're looking to respond, like the Parliament of Catalonia, to different groups, and we're looking to see that the government responds to all these concerns. You, Counselor, said that we needed to analyze the deployment of this contest started last November, with the first batch deployed, and that the deployment of all batches to the month of generation has been completed. He told us that we should all know, that is, we should know from the government, the parliamentary groups, the workers, and finally, obviously, the whole city, if the problems that were being detected were implanted or modeled, is to say – that is to say – until what a period of implantation had passed would decrease the incidences and how hot it would be to propose some changes, because something was failing in the design that had been done. No one has denied that there were problems: we had the professionals arrive, as I said before, from different territories, we had motions for resolution in committee, we had motions here in the House, and therefore a lot of concern. And the government didn't deny it at any time, which we appreciate, and we thank the councilman, as we also appreciate the compromise to analyse these problems. That's why two reports were asked, not to the same SEM – because, if not, you are asking the part, obviously, in part – but to whom you have the ability to assess, which in this case can be the Aquas, which is the Agency of Quality and Health Assessment, and the CatSalut. And precisely we ask the councillor to ask him about this, about what we can do with these reports, if we can arrange it not as parliamentary groups, but at the level of the citizenry, is to say, if we can analyze them, if we can see what data, what indicators have been used. We will also ask you what conclusions we can make on the reports. And, in concrete terms, they ask for a few things. How many periods have they analyzed? Because in reality, for an accurate assessment, that the model just unfolded to the gener, it seems to me that it is a short time to evaluate, for example, territories where the number of incidents is not very high, because there is not much population either. It's a short period of time, and so I think that these reports can tell us, that maybe the evaluation could be more accurate if it was a longer period than it was analyzed, months or years ago. Which indicators have been used in these reports that can give us an idea of whether the model actually adds up to a better – as they say, the ‘improved model' – or whether it still needs to be used because we can really feel that better? For example, when we talk about life risk – life risk, those things that are time dependent and that response time, obviously, is a key indicator – which indicators respect time have been used? If we have better time in the deployment of fast intervention vehicles. Because, as his name says fast intervention vehicle, we assumed that the will was a better response time. Let's see if this in the reports is palpable so, whether there is a difference with what was before the advanced life support medicalized or not. If the new contest increases life support device advanced – I mean, that's data, huh? , are cold data – with an increase also of professionals, etcetera. These cold data, therefore, can tell us: « Millorem. That's clear, they say the dice, we get better, and so it's perfect. But we're getting complaints, we're getting concerns from the territory. So something maybe isn't so perfect, and see what the reports say about it. One of the things that has been talked about most is these VIRs, the rapid intervention vehicles, and therefore, we need to know, these reports..., if the conclusion is to say that they really suppose a better in the model or there are aspects in which, as some professionals tell us, we are not supposed to just take advantage of these betters that the VIRs are supposed to give us. That's to say, if it goes ahead of time, but the answer of the device..., if the time improves, if we arrive more quickly with a VIR, maybe we can agree; but one time we're there, one time we're on the spot in the incident, the answer we're giving is the best? Are you better than before? Is it the same? Can you answer that? Do we need any other recourse than to give us recollection, or don't we? That is to say, one thing that the professionals also explained to us is that yes, they arrive before, but when they arrive they may lack hands and therefore demand more resources. Are these resources that we mobilize the necessary? Are they less than necessary? Are they masses? I mean, are we mobilizing too much resources for what would really heat up for the incidence? Or, actually, is it the other way around? Because the data is very clear, and where there are many complaints is in the VIR implantation. If we had an advanced life support... that, because everyone understands it, it's that ambulance that they put in, nurse and a tech that, besides, drives, and now we separate them with an intermediation, that there goes the tech and the nurse, and then we incorporate a new device, which is the fast intervention vehicle, with a tech and the meth. Therefore, we increase a vehicle and increase a technique; it increases personal, it increases a new device. So, this in theory has to be a better one, sure. So the sensations that come to us many times are lost, lost perception of the quality of care. Therefore, to all these questions, we would like these reports to be able to give an answer. I have a lot of other issues, because that's good for a lot, health transportation, obviously there's also the part of the non-urgent, but I think we need to focus enough on that. I'm also worried if the reports can be accurate. That's to say, the first batch deployed is the first week of November, the last batch deployed is the first week of generation; two_months of decaling, and we're still assessing it. Therefore, I believe that in these two_months surely the lots deployed first may have been able to adapt better with this implantation that you gave. Who are the implant-problems and who are the model problems? So, that, I assume the report will tell us something about this. And it's that we're talking about a very dynamic thing: we're talking about medical transportation, the medical emergence system... That's to say, a resource we don't have on a base and there it is and it covers a territory and enough. It's moving, it's moving in a dynamic way. There is the subject of interhospital transfer, there is the subject of when they return to the base, half way the tricks and turn them to another place that is not their own territory of the base. So... the VIR coverage isn't the same as we had with Mikes, which is the advanced life support medicalized, it's more extensive. So, this better, covers more territories...? All this would please us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.33.0	Congresswoman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.34.0	...to see if the reports can tell us. I'll leave it here; then we'll move on. "Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.35.0	Thank you very much. There's a word from Mr. Antoni Comín, Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.36.0	Thank you, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - I see it now, I do not see it - you have asked me many questions in two minutes, and I hope I have time to answer them all, because the problem is that sometimes the answers last a little longer than the questions, and therefore I do not know if I will have time to answer all the questions; I hope so. Actually, I took a compromise from this same Faristol: I said that I understood that there were problems with health transport and that, therefore, it would be useful to make decisions to try to deal with them, huh? – we have never denied the problem, honourable Member, you must remember – but we do not want to take decisions without a minimum of rigour, effectively, and that, therefore, before taking more decisions we need a diagnosis that is minimally accurate of what was going on. That's why I compromised 'but I asked for some reports, I did it immediately, I committed myself to keeping them in mind..., I don't remember now, I don't know if I talked about a month and a half – I think we're moving up to and still in relation to the temporary compromise that I had acquired – and I compromised myself to put the contents of these reports into the Chamber's knowledge of the contents of those reports a while ago. These reports, at these times, are in the final stages. We have the data, and today I will bring the first conclusions; the conclusions of these reports are being drafted, and during the next few days – the week you are going to – we will deliver them to the president of the Health Commission because you get them to the rest of the parliamentary groups. So, with this first scale, we could say, almost definite, huh? , from the data of these reports – therefore, we try to complete with what we have always said: a policy of maximum transparency on the part of the Department of Health – what do we see? Let's remember it very quickly. The objectives of the competition were to renew the fleet; to make a model change in the measurement that incorporated the rapid intervention vehicle – and this is the main change in terms of model –; to technologically update the equipment of ambulances, and to centrally manage the non-urgent and urgent transport. From here, some very brief methodological considerations, because I can't entertain myself. It is true that what we do to evaluate the new model is to compare the data of the new model with the data of the previous model, in the period of time that facilitates the most the comparative rigour, is to say, we compare 2016 by 2015, we do not compare the data of 2016 by 2014, because, as more recently as time goes, the data of the old model, the more valid is the comparison with the new model. Now, even so, there is a problem, what happens is that there is a problem of difficult solution, that is that we would need a longer period, in the background, of implanting the new model, we would need more months 2016 so that the conclusions were still more reliable. But here we would find ourselves with a political problem: if we waited for six months to have more time to implement the new model to know better what the situation of the new model is, we would not face the problems we already know exist. Therefore, we have to balance our analysis months, which are these first three months of 2016, and not wait any longer to make decisions, because methodologically there is this concern to say: "Maybe we are bringing conclusions for which we still do not have a sufficient tool, as the cases, the incidents that have occurred during these first three months give a critical mass of incidents to analyze, of assistance to analyze, a small one. I don't talk about methodological considerations, because it takes time. Also another methodological consideration: we have taken the indicators referring to the vital risk, which seems to us to be those indicators that have the most relevance. From here, what do we find? Some first data, that were already known, before entering the indicators that commented them, related to the vital risk, are that in the equipping of vehicles– you must remember– it fell the advanced life support medicalized with eleven vehicles, because it increased the advanced life support with infirmary with twelve vehicles; moreover, fourteen vehicles of rapid intervention have been laid down. So, the sum of all this is fifteen more vehicles, the total, huh? , fleet total, fifteen more vehicles. If we stay the five that have fallen out of basic life support, huh? , without nurses and without doctors, the sum is two more vehicles. So we have more vehicles, we know that. Plus, if we look at the hourly ratio of professionals for every hundred and thousand inhabitants of the square, it doesn't change, does it? , we are exactly 2.5, same in the model of 2105 and in the model of 2016. So, clear this up, what do we find? We find that there is an indicator, that it is standard, international, the international standard, let's say, is surely the most consolidated indicator at European and international level, that it is the percentage of incidents that are assisted in a time less than eight minutes, eh? This would be the quality indicator, huh? Between it's active and it's up. With this indicator – I explain it very quickly, and if from time to time I will give more details – what we find is that there has been a very random evolution between the different lots. We already had an important territorial dispersion, and we find that those territories that had a lower percentage in some cases are better and in other cases still worse, and those territories that had a higher percentage in some cases are better and in others. For example, the Eastern Valley, which was with a 49_per_cent, which is a low indicator, loses two points. And in Girona's change, which was with a 37_per_cent, which is a low indicator, increases twenty points. Clearly, what we can't make a new model, in any case, is to give us a lower percentage than what we had in the previous model in the heads of the territories. One thing is that there are territories that do not improve, or territories that do improve more, or territories that do not improve so much; and the other is that some territories that do improve, that of other hinters and that, moreover, this better and this hinterland do not follow the path identifiable, let's say, and therefore have this random pattern. This makes us think that the new model actually has some problems. I'm not talking about the other indicator I wanted to explain to you, but I don't have time, which is the twelve minutes, that the twelve minutes is from the call to the intervention, but it would give us a similar result. As they keep the report, they'll see the batch data per batch. The conclusion is an uneven evolution, let's say, a little random, let's say, right? With regard to the VIR, Mrs Vergés explained very well, the aim of the VIR – in a very synthetic way, because I can't entertain it – was, unfolding, huh? , the vital service advanced with the infirmary of the vehicle of rapid intervention of more technical means of transport, to achieve two things: one, to facilitate the resolutions in situ, and two, to untie the meth, when it is not necessary, from the person's transfer to the hospital, when the situation cannot be solved in situ. These are the two main virtues of VIR. And, when we analyze the indicators that allow us to see whether these advantages of the VIR model are confirmed or not, what do we find? That these advantages do confirm, but surely not enough. Because we find, for example, that there are 21_percent of cases where the VIR resolves in situ, and, in change, in 97_percent of cases two resources arrive, when the grace of the VIR is that when the VIR resolves in situ it does not weigh the second recourse. So, indeed, one of the complaints that the parliamentary groups put on the table, which we believe was correct, is now confirmed, let us say, with the information available. In change, for sure, the territorial pattern of which I spoke before is not corresponding with perceptions. Because the territories like Lleida or Girona have improved in emergency health transportation. On the other hand, territories in which we have not identified complaints, such as the Eastern Valley, or others, the Maresme, have instigated. Therefore, we also need to be aware here, and that is why we want the report, that social perceptions are sometimes not entirely consistent with cold and objective data. And we have to manage these services taking into account all two things. Obviously, what do we have to take into account social perceptions, but we also have to take into account the cool data of the reports, let's say, right? I'm closing the parenthesis. We know that VIR, in a 21_percent of the cases in which it is resolved in situ..., it would not be advisable for you to arrive at the second resort. And in most of these cases above, the second appeal. Therefore, the objective, which was not to seek unnecessary resources, is not sufficiently complete. Say it like that. And the other indicator that we should also think about is that in those cases where we would have to move without VIR we find that there are 30_percent of the cases where the move is still going with VIR, when if I put the move through this we already have the advanced basic medicalized service in the previous model. What effectively enables us to confirm that the VIR model does not perfectly complete its objectives is to find that there are 30_percent of the cases in which the VIR is transferred. So, I mean there's an ambulance and a VIR. And, therefore, neither the VIR eliminates the appeal when the resolution can be made in situ nor does the VIR eliminate the transfer in a 30_percent of cases when the transfer to the hospital is required. Therefore, effectively, we need to make adjustments in the model. In the second part of my intervention, if I can explain in what sense I think we should make these model adjustments and their implementation. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.37.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Next, the Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.38.0	Thank you, Counselor. I believe that in these two minutes he has given us a great deal of data on the conclusions of these reports. And, therefore, many corroborate those perceptions that come from the professions and territories, that some may not fully fit with objective data, as I say. But in any case, what he said to us in the last sentence is what I wanted to ask him now. It's, what are we gonna do now? Now what measures do we propose? If they are measures, some, amplified, of the whole model, or are more accurate measures territories to territories. Because what we see is this: that not all territories are not part of the same situation nor have they had an equal type of change. And, therefore, this has to be seen as it is. I mean, not all territories right now are gonna take the same steps. You're obvious. In Pirinius, from the previous competition to the other, it's all the same, it hasn't changed king, it hasn't changed any unit, it hasn't changed absolutely king. Lleida? Lleida has changed things. Two units are increasing, more resources, more hours and more complaints. I mean, that's what we've seen, that's the perception that we're above the professionals, the unions. And, therefore, that's what... I suppose you're going to have to put a lot of different measures on Lleida than on Tarragona, that there have been quite important changes in advanced life support as well. In theory, with cold data, coverage has increased, but complaints have also increased. So, this territorial disparity that has already advanced to us that is seen in the evaluation reports, is to say that every territory leaves..., different..., and I also guess that the evolution is very..., and..., it's to say, how we establish it, how it's going to work with the territory, etc. With regard to VIR, of course..., the data you have told us about an on-site response, a 21_per_cent, but after 97_per_cent this also activates another resource that in theory would not be hot if with this 21_per_cent we can resolve on-site. Therefore, this would also say that it responds to the fact that there is a lack of a certain implantation of which are fast intervention vehicles. So, the VIRs, obviously, can't drag – they can't drag. It's not an ambulance like we always see. It's a car. And, therefore, we find ourselves inconvenient in this respect. That's what you're saying, this 30_percent of the ambulance... where the VIR meth has to go up to the ambulance, so it turns it into a med school, but then the VIR car has to go back. So they lose their resources. So, this has to be this way, and what changes will we ask the SEM, the same SEM, that we propose to fix this situation. Then, see if there has been any variation in this on-site response. That is to say, they have established different VIRs in different territories, and if it has varied in this response on the spot, if some VIRs actually have a percentage of response on the top and the others not so much – in Barcelona we know that it has been implemented for a long time, and so I understand that you do have a much higher percentage of resolution – and as we can do so because in the other territories they also feel that way. And then, this simultaneous mobilization of resources. This is very bad reading; the territory, on the part of the citizenry, that something happens and that suddenly and again is mobilizing three or four resources. I don't read it so badly. That is to say, from a management point of view, we pay for the whole structure to have different vehicles with different bases. And, therefore, what we pay for is the structure. What's mobilitzin more or less? So we've got to watch him come in and mobilize the quiet ones. But not just the one who falls, no more or less, but also the adient appeal, which mobilizes the adient appeal in every type of incident. Because it's true. You have spoken of the vital risk, and here we have the implementation of the codes, which we pride ourselves on, like Catalonia, to have codes that work and that we evaluate, and with what we have brutal results compared to other countries that are in theory far more advanced than we are: polytrauma, acute myocardial infarct code, stroke code and, recently, aseptic code, also very important, which must also be evaluated. These codes have allowed to dramatically decrease success, that is, the dead, but also decrease sequels, which is very important for a system of salvation. And we must obviously look at the times of these codes, but also if they come to the right hospital; all these circuits, if they work. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I don't have any more time. I'm worried about the random evolution. And, therefore, asking him how he will do this answer from then on. I mean, ask him, and now what?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.39.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.40.0	I remember, honourable Member, when I answered the question made to me by Mrs Ribas, who said: "I would like to know with these reports what I am dealing with if we are talking about implant or model problems, which is still a division, also, a little abstract and general, but I believe that the intuition is understood. I think the data we have allows us to conclude that it's a little bit of each. In particular, I am willing to recognize one thing: the implementation problems are surely inherent in an implementation process. I mean, a model change needs a spin. It may be that at the beginning of the new model, while the new model is better, the indicators are worse, until the new model is really consolidated, the professionals dominate it, etc. Therefore, in any case, there are implant problems, which I admit can be structural, inherent, inevitable, let's say it as usual, but there are also model problems, because you already see in this sense that the VIR at the moment does not give all its virtues with all the perfection that it would agree. Say it like that, don't you? But I don't think it's about completely reversing it, but to model problems what we have to look at is territory by territory and make a fi adjustment, a fi adjustment of the model, more than a complete correction of the model. But in any case, I think this has an important technical complexity. I think it's going to be even more data and a few more months to see exactly how far the model fits or the model is rectified. And this... what we're going to do will be assigned to the new EMS management team. I take this opportunity to inform you that there will be a change in the management team at the SEM. The team we've had so far at the SEM... we value their work very positively. We think it's a team that has had the value of thinking about the new model, a team that has had the value of designing it, a team that has had the value of making the contest. But now we want to open a new stage. Now we want to open a new stage that is the stage of deploying this new model, of adjusting its drawbacks, which I admit can be inherent and structural drawbacks. And after reflecting on it, it seemed to us that it was more positive, to consolidate, to legitimize, the SEM, effectively, to make a change in the management team of the SEM. And this switch to the SEM management team, I insist, huh? , does not exclude a strong recognition of the work done by the team that is, still today, ahead of the SEM. Therefore, this fundamental recognition is there. This is not incompatible with making a replenishment. And this stuff, what way does the fem? This fills the fem in the way that we seem to correspond to the new stage that we want to open in the Department of Salvation, which is the stage of transparency. Therefore, what we will do is open a competition, public competition, open competition, what can be presented to all health transport professionals who may be interested in taking on this task so relevant, this responsibility so important, that it is the direction of health transport that is urgent and not urgent to Catalonia. There's a lot of good professionals. The professionals who will leave this responsibility by the proper days are very good professionals in health transport; there are many other good professionals in our country who are experts in health transport. And so the next day will be your news. We will open this public process, this public competition, in which you will present various candidates. We already know at these times that there are people interested in being able to take on this responsibility, and, with all the advertising and transparency criteria they match, the EMS will have a new management team soon. In this interinatge period there is a board of directors of this public company, which you know is 100_per_cent property of the Català Health Service, which will assume, in function, these executive tasks during the contest process. Anyway, I think we'll give the people we need. People need confidence. The citizens of our country, the patients, need the peace of mind to know that we have, because we have, one of the best urgent transport services in Europe. But it has actually raised concern. And we, to this concern, beyond cold data, must give an answer. We believe that the answer is to legitimize the health transport system, that the citizens of our country are not in doubt, that they have the confidence that it is the best possible health transport system in Catalonia with the resources we have. And, therefore, we will charge this new team that, from the dialogue with parliamentary groups, with the workers, with the technicians, you do this job of legitimizing health transport. And that actually happens to make all the changes that convince, technical, model implantation. I believe that, therefore, we are already giving an answer to this debate which broke into me the first day I intervened in this plenary, Mrs Ribas. At the end of a few weeks we have tried to give a very solid answer to, as is our obligation as rulers, resolve the problems that our people have in our country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.41.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about the generality's debt]] [[300-00047/11]] The fifteenth item on the agenda is the question to the Government about the Generality's debt, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.42.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Vice President, first of all, we always believe that what's good to recognize. And, therefore, today we want to put in value that your department has set aside the group of debt work, unfolding thus, despite the fact that to some people they do not like to remember, the annex of the 9-N declaration, and also one of the agreements of the Ple of the poor, we gather that for us they were very necessary, that they provide information and that, therefore, we should put in value. Therefore, there may be those who today do not understand that today the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Constituent Creed decides that we need to talk about debt here. But it is that, while at the political level, because it is at the political level, despite the fact that there are only those who want to focus on the technical level, it is at the political level, the debt took every time more centrality, the public opinion does not get used to addressing an issue that presents many arests. Generally, we pass between the fatality, the majority in this chamber, of "deuts are to be paid, and the proclamation, unfortunately minority here, of "we must not, we must not, but rarely lower ourselves to look at the clavegars of a problem that certainly does not only mark the present, but will mark, and mark, the future of this country. If we look at the Catalan countries – Catalonia, Valencia and Illes –, they accumulate public debts that respect their GDP from the highest in the Spanish State. The evolution in the three territories, moreover, is similar, and there is a marked increase in public debt in absolute terms and above all in relation to GDP in all of them from the year 2008, the beginning of the escalate of the capitalist crisis. According to the Banc d'Espanya, the total public debt to the Catalan Countries exceeds 120,000_million euros. Therefore, we can say as to the conclusion that the debt offends the whole country. If we make an attempt to analyze the fixed photo of Catalonia that we currently have, we see and we note that the debt of the Generality is unsustainable both economically and socially. And why do we say that? If we use GDP as an indicator to measure sustainability, an indicator that, as we know, is short for us because it does not incorporate some questions that we believe should also determine the wealth of a country, such as the work of cures and unpaid reproduction..., but if we use GDP, then since 2008, as we say before, the Catalan administrations have been in debt at a higher rate than the ability to create the economic wealth we have with the economy. In total, they owe 72,195_million euros, a 34.2 of gross domestic product. It's a drill, because it's a drill, and every time it's bigger, where more resources go than needed: 18,39_million euros a day to pay off debt and its interests. But if instead of the fixed photo we try to analyze the video, which is always better, we see that it's a snowball that doesn't stop growing: since 2010, the debt has increased more than 46,000_million euros, that is to say, it's increased by almost 8,000_million euros annually. It is therefore from 2008 that, with the escalating economic crisis, with the situation of a growing deficit, we generate a higher debt. And this snowball, however, starts with the tripartite, and it's the rear governments that feed it. That is to say, until 2007, taking back GDP as the indicator, the debt was around 8_per_cent, and is currently shooting up to 34_per_cent. With the tripartite, from 2007 to 2010, the debt is tripled; with Convergence and Union the debt is double. In 2010, before a growing deficit and every time more difficult access to the market financed by the Generality, we decided to issue these good patriots, which we were paying for just two years ago. In four issues, we placed a lot of liquid, yes, that we needed, but to an interest between 4 and 5_per_cent, with commissions of the financial entities that managed the sale of the vouchers between 1 and 2 and mig percent. That is to say, we have been paying, too, more than that, 600_million euros of interest to funded entities and practically 300_million euros in commissions to have made good patriotics; we have been paying in concept practically of usury to the funded entities. Both of them did not take the necessary steps to avoid this increase in debt, and so it is as we arrive at the FLA, debt to pay debt, an eternal spiral of debt and state intervention as well. We have seen it in the last few months and the last days: the FLA is nothing but the economic and political control of the Spanish State to the Generality. So we've been simultaneously facilitating the rescue of funded entities and allowing intervention measures – and we're following them –, state intervention measures, through the FLA, as we used to. Therefore, if we are talking about full recovery of our sovereignty, I mean we also have to give the tools so that the citizenry is who knows and decides who are the real margins of manoeuvre, who knows the detail of who should, in what conditions, why, and if the debt process has been legal, legitimate and responsible. In short, at the gates of a process they constitute, as well as the citizenry that decides whether it wants to follow these debts or wants to break with the chains of the debt with all the information possible to the abst. It is necessary to explain to the citizen what it means to deal with a growing debt in the context of weakening economic growth and with an exhausted society for austerocratic measures. That the government has the courage to explain to us, here in Parliament, but also in the street, that without facing this unjust distribution of resources from low to high they wait for us as at least five decades of social emergence, of hospitals in deep coma, of school barracks, of universities in the UCI and of a model of sunny production. When we talk about breaking the bones to make the trout; when the words of Ovidi have already been spoken, of "no longer feeding softly, we want the father; but also, with the words of the manacorist singer Guillem d'Efak, we say "no more honey and sugar and we know how to rule, we are talking about recovering our full sovereignty. And, therefore, we are also saying that in matters relating to the debt, we, the citizenry, want to have the last word about what to do with the debts or public management processes audited. With the information on the table of how the debt was generated, but also from which consequences it may have so much to continue paying this nerve ball, as not paying it, we must be able to collectively decide what we do with this debt. The audience, as it was in Greece or Ecuador, is essential to break with the opacity that has reigned in its ill-named councillorship, "the advice of the debt, as well as to dispel the speech that blames the people for having lived over our possibilities, because with a snowball it was impossible to live over our possibilities. But the audience also needs to be used to define how we want public finance, debt, to be managed. And, in general, we want, through this audit, a civic audit, an open, transparent audit, which can define the public policies of the future, which, in this process constitute that we begin, we define among all the public policies of the republic that we are building. Thank you very much. Then I'll be able to look deeper...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.43.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.44.0	Yeah, I'm done. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.45.0	To answer, the deputy president of the government, Mr. Oriol Junqueras, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.46.0	Good morning, everybody. I come out with papers, which is not very common, to try to follow a strict guide – I don't know if I'll get involved – respect the intervention. First statement of intent that I often respect the group that you represent, and respect other groups in the chamber: phonentally in agreement with the diagnosis, phonentally in agreement with the description of the reality that surrounds us. I thank you, in the first place, that..., as you have also begun here, I thank you for putting into value the debt working group, which actually derives from the parliamentary commitments that this government has acquired before this chamber, and the majority of Parliamentarians. It seems to us that it is a good exercise and it also seems to us that it is an exercise to which we have to give continuity and that so much good is being done, and I am convinced that it will be so, to extend it to other areas and other themes. It seems to us that transparency in this sense, so it's always good, always helps. And we share the criteria that the citizenry now needs to know the details of which is the situation in which we are, of which are the paths for which we have come to this situation, paths that I'm sure are complex, but I'm sure they have central elements to explain. And, therefore, we share this will for transparency. We have also done so, not only in the area of the debt working group, but we have done so, for example, from the website of the department, with all the information updated to 31 December 2015 respecting the SEC perimeter, and therefore the entire European comptability system; an information that, moreover, we are updating and that we are publishing as we have new information. Share also the second point I have noted of his intervention with respect to the political centrality of the debt. Indeed, debt is an absolutely central element in the policies of all states – of all states –, uniquely of the heavily indebted states, and therefore of the good part of the European states. Let us remember that this is an evil that does not only affect European states with Mediterranean costs, not only Greece, the Spanish State, Italy, Portugal, France... but also Belgium, and it affects absolutely central countries in the world economic system, starting with Japan, the United States, etc., or the United States and Japan. Therefore, it has an absolutely central role, also politically. Why? Because it is obvious that politics, political structures, that they are those that are decided by the citizens of each of these states, are structures of much smaller scale, of much smaller scale than the scale in which great decisions are made by the debtors, which are scales of global character. And so, here's a gap, there's a giant difference between the sphere of political decision-making of citizens in the mark of their public structures, their states, etc., and the sphere of decision-making of financial markets, debt holders, etc. And it is obvious that it puts politics in a situation of fever, of disadvantage in the negotiation processes. That is why, in our case in concrete terms, we are convinced that we need a stronger Europe, better, with stronger common institutions; that we need, not just a central bank, not just a single currency, but only a single currency that supports this single currency. And that's why, too, from our perspective, and here we probably don't agree, so, to sustain this unique trisor that supports this single currency we need a tax system, if not one, indeed with important elements in common, perhaps, for example – and without any desire to enter into a debate on this, which now does not, surely does not touch, but that, if you touched one day, we would be delighted to do – so, for example, in the corporate tax. Also in agreement with the reflection on the effects of the debt and how it has a particularly intense role in the field of the Catalan Countries, certainly, and it is perceived in the day-to-day of our lives, it is perceived in the political attitudes of the governments of these territories, it is perceived everywhere, in the fiscal and financial policy councils, everywhere. Therefore, it is a reality rather than a common one, a sense of doubt – a sense of doubt – which is attached to many others. You, there was a time when I was talking that – I seemed to hear it, and if that's not it, then I'll try to kill it – we're moving between fatality and an attitude a little... you didn't use the expression, and I've pointed out "magic," let's say it, right? Fatality in the sense of: "It is inevitable, this, it has fallen on us. There are some who plant it, I understand, from this perspective, and some who say: "Listen, therefore, this does not pay. Well, if it's not like that, we'll kill it; I understand there were these two extreme positions, let's just say it, huh? And, besides, I don't understand that you're referring to anyone concrete at the time of signing these papers. I pointed that at myself; okay. Our position, because, in any case, I made it very clear: it is clear that – and we have said this on other occasions – no one is in debt and is in a situation of public deficit and that, therefore, he needs credit, cannot tell his creditors to leave him the credit and that, at the same time, he will stop paying them, because the creditors actually disappear. Therefore, here is a question that obviously needs to be kept in mind. I agree – and, I insist, if I have misinterpreted it, then I will try to bring it back – that this cannot be presented as a fatality, as it has happened, as it has fallen from the cell, as it is a rainy day or a day in the wind, let us say to ourselves. Here we have some origins, we have some causes, etcetera, and they are well known, we have treated them many times. There is no political character, there is no economic character, there are certainly management questions that could have been much better and that we hope to be able to improve in the area of the possibilities that we have at this time, that they are the ones that are limited and that we hope that they will stop being limited, let us say, because we have all the instruments that are close to a state. He made other references to the economic and social unsustainability of the debt. Certainly, the rate of growth of public debt – this we have also dealt with here on various occasions –..., we are ahead of a giant bottle of money and public debt, which, moreover, affects many economies of the world. It is a much larger – much larger – cylinder, in the case of the Spanish State triples the financial and real estate cylinder that exploded in 2007-2008. Therefore, we are ahead of a bowl of proportions..., without historical precedents, let us say, for its intensity and for its geographical extension; therefore, difficult to resolve, sense of doubt. The bottles of this kind are resolved for two paths, which are compatible between them. One is that of an economic growth greater than the deficit, that is, the way of a real economic growth, in which the nominal type of growth is greater than the deficit that is generated. You seem to have commented that this had not been so in the last few years. All right, absolutely agree; therefore, so does our concern around this. On the other hand, it's been that way in the past year, clearly, huh? And two years later, I'm sure. The growth of the Catalan economy has been a real growth, that is, the economic growth has been higher than the deficit, and more notably. It's a good sign, I accept that it's a good sign, with other signs that don't have anything; I accept it, but this is a good sign. The other way to try to deal with the money offer and debt bubbles is the way of inflation, full of difficulties, of everything, that has generated exciting discussions. In our case, we are in a situation of the deflation shield or between deflation. Inflation can be a monster difficult to manage, it can be, inflation can be a monster difficult to manage. Deflation is always a difficult monster to manage, and deflation, as small as it is, is always much more frightening than inflation almost as big as it is. This does not mean that inflation is less sustainable, it does not mean that it is less sustainable, but it certainly suits all of us a little bit of inflation. An exciting debate is what a bit of inflation means, but it helps us a little bit of inflation. Probably we'll find it – probably we'll find it. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Time's up. Then I'll try to explain why we'll find it, how we'll find it, and what consequences it can have. And it's likely that in this analysis of the consequences we may have, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.47.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Next, the Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.48.0	All right, thank you. Before we raised the need for transparency, didn't we? , and transparency went beyond the web page, and we had to create a process that we understand to be a citizen and popular audit, that's to say, it's going to be more of an audit at Pricewaterhouse or Deloitte, because in no case will the objectives that we think we need to address, that's why, as we have been indebted to each other. An audit carried out for an external company in the fund would maintain the tonic that came in the last few years; it is to say, we would not change the tonic in any case. That's to say, it's a comprehensive analysis that helps us hear too – and when we talk about "helping us to hear the marble of this building and getting out on the street – that helps us to hear the economic context, but also political and social, of why we have come all the way here: in what has accumulated this debt, the environmental, social or generative impacts that this debt has... Because, beyond the economic impact of going back and, therefore, getting angry, we generate retails, and the retails have a series of impacts, and so that we can also analyze it in their globality. In short, you can end up with a book like this [[the speaker shows a brochure]] , which he financed was the Greek Government, although it was then made a step back, to have listened to his own citizenry, but the book is a citizen's audit drawn up in the framework of the Greek Parliament, with conclusions, with a global analysis of all the debt, to then deliver it to the citizenry and that it is the own citizenry that makes the relevant analysis with the data. It is obvious that an open audit of this will cause nervousness and nervousness to the economic forces, which have so far provided money, the economic forces of the country, and which have so far experienced thanks to this debt, or have experienced thanks also to the opacity and impunity with which they have reigned all this time, but it is also the economic forces that are always on the side of the Constitutional Court when they arise from here alongside the popular classes of the country. So, that's nervous, these economic forces, we wouldn't have to worry about. What we should be concerned about is why we don't know or why the citizenry doesn't know why some infrastructure has cost much more than expected, why line 9_has cost so much and is still costing so much and still lasts as long as the construction of line 9 or the Segarra-Garrigues channel is paid. We want to know the conditions for the financing of motorways and other infrastructure. We want to know if there are percentage tracks to oblivion and to bury the generality definitively. For all this it is for what needs to be an audience process, to analyze these 72,000_million euros of debt, with all the policies that have accompanied it. And that's part of it, now that we here have the opportunity, the process is and must be used to move forward on this. Therefore, when we politically table the debt and do not share the thoughts of those who say that it is necessary to do a technical analysis of the debt, it is because it is not a mechanism more: it is a mechanism that serves to control social policies, that serves to dominate and that historically, after forty years, it has served because some states in control of others. And, as we do not want and believe that the debts that have contracted out to the citizenry, the citizenry does not have to pay them, and as long as there are details to pay for it, it is the citizenry that pays them, we say that we want a popular audit, because among all of us we can tell what is to be paid and what is not to be paid in the construction of the republic. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.49.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the vice president has the word
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.50.0	Good day to everyone again. I'm starting with a statement of intent, so let's not deviate from the subject: listen, totally in favour of doing audits of the type that follows. So let's settle down, find the formula for doing this audit, for... for us, for us. On the other hand, it seems to me that if anything characterizes us, it is the will to put it on and on and on and on and on and on. So, the more, the better. And if it's on line 9, fantastic, and if it's on the Segarra-Garrigues channel, fantastic. And it's possible that someone has as many winnings as I do to put it on – it's very hard than I do to win, huh? So, listen, let's put it on, let's work it out. This is a parliament that represents the citizenship of our country, let's work it out of here. If we have to involve him in a month, listen, we're looking for a way to involve him there, we're looking for a formula that's broad and representative and..., etc. Perfect. That's what I'm talking about with the point I left back when I finished my first intervention. I said: "We will find inflation, at least a little, for a very simple reason. Now we're in an underlying inflation that's around '1,2,1,3,1.4. This is corrected, at this time, by a fall, long ago, in the price of energy and in the price of some basic food products, so that we have global inflation around zero, or a little below zero, a little above zero. When the energy price drops – and one day or another it will stop falling, for much less than it has fallen – when the energy price falls, the underlying will tend to match very quickly..., forgive me, the global will tend to match the underlying, and therefore it is possible that in a few months we see inflations that at these times are located in many economies around 0_per_cent are situated quickly towards 1, 1, 3, 1, 4, etcetera. This is an element that will be positive in some respects and that will be a great threat in others. For example, it is difficult – not impossible, it is difficult – that types of interest do not tend to follow prices, do not tend to follow inflation. If they don't follow him, we'll be with some kind of real negative interest. And that's not always easy to manage, because it tends to generate even more bubbles, faster, growing and flashing faster. But if we are able to manage it – and that goes beyond the competences of this Parliament and of our country, clearly – it is an opportunity to get out of debt. Inflation is a traditional debt relief mechanism. That said, at these times we have a debt, the global of our surroundings, a debt every time bigger and, paradoxically, every time easier to pay, because as the types lower the dues is always renewed in conditions a little better. When will this end? It will probably end when inflation is at its peak. And then what happens? It will happen that he will close the trap of the deute. And that's what we've seen, and it's actually a drama. And we've seen it in many countries of the world, we've seen it in Llatina America, which is one of the most classic examples, in the eighties and the nineties... And, therefore, effectively, we share all the concern and all the politics and all the intellectual interest in this issue, in these issues, etc. How that interests us and concerns us, and it seems to me that it is a movement of interest and concern for everyone– for everyone–, delighted to look for mechanisms to communicate it, to make it public, to explain it... If the debt working group is a first step, perfect: give it continuity. What more steps do we have to take? Steps up. What else do we have to do? Also, let's do it another way. For our part, I insist, enchanted, and all that helps to clarify elements that are doubtful, on which we have reasonable doubts, on which we have suspicions, more or less, whatever, of the type that follows..., escorted, delighted to investigate it, to find it, to seek it, and to seek it together. For our part, therefore, we are not inconvenient, but it will be a pleasure, and, moreover, we seem to comply with our obligations. So, forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.51.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Question to the Government on agricultural, timber and fisheries policies]] [[300-00048/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on agricultural policies, fisheries and fisheries presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.52.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor... Well, deputies, deputies... Counselor, I have to say that in one principle my intention was to ask her only for what she does to the branching sector, right? However, bearing in mind that since the start of the legislature, we have not yet talked about questions affecting its department in this plenary, and following the requests of the other sectors, it seemed opportune to take advantage of these fifteen minutes because we are responding to a series of questions, which concern, and very much, both farmers, rowers and fishers. This is a constructive question, which they claim to be constructive, which will be accompanied by a motion that wants to favour strategic sectors for the Catalan economy, and therefore open to the rest of parliamentary groups so that they can enrich it. Look, counselor, you have inherited a council that has accumulated a presuppositional descent of more than 40_per_cent, and with an evolution of the agrarian income that continues to accumulate a decrease of 30_per_cent. I'm sorry to tell you that this government has never... – and I wonder what advisors and directors-general have been through, especially in these past few years, and perhaps this is not the reason – I say that this government has never understood that the agricultural sector is a dynamic sector of the economy, as a sector that can contribute decisively to the reactivation of the economy and the creation of jobs. That said, and as time goes by, I want to start with a regrettable fact that provoked his own party, Esquerra Republicana, the councillor's party, the councillor's party at the Barcelona Assembly, and that few days ago, and that you know, has caused the rebuff, and with all the reason of the world, of the whole meat sector, because, certainly happy flowers declarations are especially difficult at a time of special difficulties for the sector. In fact, the main employers of the meat sector– Anafric, Asoprovac, Asocat, Conill Created in Catalonia, the FACC, Fecic, Catalan poultry federation, Catalan meat federation, Cansaladers and Xarcuters, the Market Carni Ramader and the Avicola of Barcelona and Porcat – consider it difficult to hear why a consistor has to manifest himself in favor of a lifestyle or a personal option such as being vegas or being vegetarian. Counselor, this proposal contradicts the promotion of meat produced in Catalonia and the consumption of proximity products. It has not felt that the administrations such as the Barcelona Assembly are acting against the branching sector. For this reason, first of all, they ask him to give a strong response to the misrepresentation of the directors of his party and the compromise not to impose from the administrations a certain mode of food, especially for what he does to meat, because, as you know, we have a growing cabin, and the economic impact of this sector is fundamental for Catalonia. So, we need him to be a mulli and manifest his overtly rebuff. We have the table on the issue of vaccination against the bad language. With this question, you know that between the same sector there is a diversity of opinions, and that with their attitude of lack of dialogue with them, the ramaders do not know whether to vaccinate or not, and, above all, if the disease in Catalonia rises, which way the department will be involved in the event of adverse effects caused by the vaccine. It's not the same talk of mountain animals as intensive rowing. In short, we would like to see concrete commitments made by the department to this question in its response. How is the subject being addressed, has it met with other communities that are also affected? We know that there is an discomfort on the part of mountain rangers, who ask for a quick response to their petitions because many branches will soon start transhumance. Other questions, she advised, and which directly affected the store. Catalonia has, as I said, a cabin that grows day by day, especially for what it does to the pig, with some very important export figures and with a very hopeful future. It must be borne in mind that one of the most exported countries, the Xina, has already announced its intention to increase the purchase of meat from the world by 50_per_cent, and this will benefit us, logically, here in Catalonia, at our home. But you know what's going on, Counselor? That most of the barns we have are obsolete, have become small and are not in condition to gather more cabins. And it is said that the government, instead of investing in barns, like God Mana – because I remind you that a very important part of the business fabric comes from the meat sector–, says that more than helping the producer in the empowerment of the current facilities, or if its expansion is heard, it is creating obstacles to the development of this activity. Therefore, we believe that a plan to help the barns is necessary to achieve the maximum yield. We ask, she advises, that in the proper premise, that we expect to see soon, her department encloses a game that is destined for the better, and that will serve to take advantage of the producers and our economy in general. And I'll tell you more, counselor, our rowers – they all say the same – are sick of how the Administration works at the time of requesting permissions to make an enlargement, for example, aren't they? While other places are still facilitated, here in Catalonia, the bureaucracy is slow and raging. The formalities in Catalonia are going on forever. In other words, the paperwork has to be speeded up, it's a clam, a cry from the sector. Another question that concerns the ramaders: he managed it from the ramaders' dumps. In this sense, we believe that it is necessary to amend Decree 136/2009, the programme of action in vulnerable areas and the management of discards throughout the territory, in order to ensure a better adaptation of the system. In many places we find ourselves before a complex situation: the high number of cabins was not accompanied by enough land to give out to the surplus of puree. And that's a problem, a problem that's short and short, and that's when the rowers find out. From the department we want to know what the view is that it is going to respect and if it is planning to activate some treatment system. Let's talk now about the wildlife and the attacks on the animals of the Pyrenees. A few days ago we had knowledge of the attack of a bone in the Valley of Aran, concretely, we found a devoured sheep in a camp in Bagergue. The attack on the bone coincided with other cattle deaths that would have caused them to turn, however, to areas of the Pallars or to the Upper Ribagorça. The rowers of Pirinaeus have long complained of the damage caused to them by the wildlife and asked that they should make new reintroductions, such as the new specimen of plantage that is intended to free the Pallars Sobirá. What steps do you intend to take in the department to put in place these episodes that have been reported for some time, and that we have, of course, denounced the different parliamentary groups on various occasions? Remind him that the government has not yet paid 48_percent of the corresponding MCIs in 2014, in this sense. And speaking of attacks, I would like to advise you that you explain to us what measures are being taken in the department with respect to the invasion of singlars and rabbits that suffer areas of the Prepirinium, and also, concretely, of the plain of Lleida and of the villages of the Segria and Pla d'Urgell, that see how these species pose their cults in danger. What is the department doing in this area? And another question of topicality with regard to the plagues and which also affects our forests, which is the plague of the procession, which affects the pines of many forests of Catalonia, the fruit of high temperatures and the same. Counselor, can you smoke this plague? Because it no longer affects the woods, but also the salvation of many people. Okay. I have only a little time left, and I have almost focused on the branching sector – I knew it, I said it – but I still have a few minutes left to focus on the agricultural sector. We find ourselves in front of a new fruit campaign, and what will be the results of this campaign? What is clear – and I don't want to be pessimistic, but realistic – is that the producer, once more, will have to be content with the cost of production, which causes discouragement, discouragement, of a sector that can help as it is. What? So, I think encouraging domestic consumption with export is not enough. We need to boost our home products. And from here, he will advise, I propose that he take a follow-up of actions that allow this internal consumption that we need. We have to pay this sector because the camp is one of the engines of our economy and it is necessary that there is a generational replete, that young people can access..., that they can dedicate themselves there to this..., to the camp. It is necessary to have instruments so that young farmers will see the future in family farms. He'll advise, won't he? What does the department plan to do with respect? Miri, and today we know, we've just met, haven't we? , which still producers of fruit, therefore, have called a tractor to Lleida to claim support for the sector, with demands such as priority being given to the figure of the professional farmer, to increase aid for withdrawal, more resources for campaigns of production of consumption, etc. Therefore, I would also ask you, therefore, what you think about respect and what measures you think you will take. I'll continue on the next turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.53.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, to answer, has the word Agriculture Advisor, Ramaderia, Fishing and Food, Mrs Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.54.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., MP Xandri, first..., before I was able to be here..., answer an inquiry, now I'm back to thank the opportunity to explain. Certainly, the generic placement there was in the title of the inquiry is difficult, isn't it? I think we can also take advantage of the advent to explain more and better, don't we? aside from all these concrete themes, there is also a general view of what agriculture, the industry, fishing,..., forestry, also the forestry sector and food for our country, and giving a dimension of how strategic it is – as you well said, isn't it? - You're essential, aren't you? , it's..., to structure the country well territorially, but also economically, isn't it? as the production sector, and, above all, also for what it is like the primary sector, isn't it? , also with a view to generating a diversified economy and to making the country more resilient and adaptable to change. In fact, today, the agricultural sector, the agri-food sector, in a global way and looking to make... – you have made a lot of visits – from this consultancy we want to make a vision of the future and looking to the future we are clear that we have some great challenges before we go global change. Depending on how we focus on this global shift we also need to take the measures of this present. Here we have this global change that we identify, above all, in two great spheres, right? , which affects us, is the great climate change, the consequences of which, even though they may still be too much to delimit, but let's start to suffer – you haven't made any point – as in the case of the procession, right? , because it affects our climatology, the system of plugs, temperatures, flowering of the..., right? , of crops and plants, which has also been linked to what you have heard about fruit today, the negits they have in the fruit sector. It is also affecting the welfare of animals, as well as the spread and affect of pests and diseases – the bad language was also partly linked to this, to the procession – and/ or our ability to regenerate fisheries resources, etc. The agrarian sector, isn't it? In front of the climate change... it affects it mostly in two great areas, and we identify them mainly with two great resources, which are the soil and the water, right? The soil..., we need a fertile soil and water, also in quantity and quality, and in this we also need to advance in good agronomic practices, with an efficient use of water and preservation and valorization of our agricultural spaces, right? That's just agrarian. This was also related to what a little bit of the whole subject of our leftovers to see as we did to improve this management and ensure the future of the sector. As the country needs to ensure our capacity to produce food and to ensure the accessibility of citizens to food without and of quality, as well as after each city will decide its diet. But we have to guarantee this: accessibility to food and our ability to produce it in the best possible way, because we have to export, but we also have to consume it here. The socio-economic evolution, the other great scope of this global change, isn't it? , like demography, the growth of these democratic movements is another element, another great challenge that we have to keep in mind since our own agri-food sector. Because we have to be able to adapt to how the people will evolve, which will be their food habits, which will be eaten, as it will be eaten, which gastronomic cultures will coexist... This is the great challenge of future that we have as the sector, to say: "We have to produce thinking about what and how we consume. And this turn in the evolution of the population at home and in the world also affects us in a double-window, because we can't forget these global dynamics from the point of view, too, of the local dynamics, can we? , of these processes, sometimes, of aging and depopulation of certain rural areas which we are still living and which also imply an abandonment of agricultural activity, which, on the other hand, we have also said is necessary to guarantee this objective of having food. If we do not face it, we can end this by limiting our ability to face successful future strategies in relation to food, territorial balance or future sustainability of the country. Therefore, we need to maintain our natural ecosystems from activities – agricultural, timber, forestry, fisheries – that are fully sustainable. We also need to maintain, if I may say so, socio-economic ecosystems with small, medium-sized, large enterprises and farms, which have fair and transparent relations, which can be relaxed in the territory and which maintain this social and territorial cohesion; that is to say, it is all that we need: to maintain a global and future vision. And we have to be able to maintain this population structure that I managed this medium, which generates, right? , productive activity, this rich, which, at the same time, serves, activities that, together, give vitality to our territory and promote its socio-economic and environmental development. We have to make a country, and we want to make a country... – that is, in the Catalan Republic project that we have since this government – we want to make a sustainable, resilient country, and here we must all bet, even all the members of this chamber, and here the appeals. We need to be the economic and social agents, the research and innovation centres, the country's institutions, the same administration and the citizenry in general. We must be able to face this great challenge in a global way. Since the department and in this legislature we have decided to improve the current competitiveness and sustainability of the sector and, at the same time, to lay the foundations for what this must be, as I say, the Catalan Republic. It's all about everyone, isn't it? , and taking into account this global view of these aspects that he has listed, that there were many, for what he does to the first that he has mentioned, the fact of the motion of the veg friendly of the Barcelona Assembly. Tell him, of course, that we've talked to the agents in the sector, right? And we collected his father and exchanged impressions. And we also had a chance to talk to representatives of the Barcelona Assembly and also establish common positions and strategies for the future. And also, allow 'but you make them a little..., well, a reminder, if not, it is to say, the motion was approved for the Assembly of Barcelona, the Commission of Hisenda, if I do not recall badly, and was voted in favour for Barcelona in Comú, for Esquerra Republicana, for Convergence and Union, PSC, CUP; and in their case, their party, the Popular Party, and Ciutadans were abstaining, that is, they did not vote against it, they did not oppose it at any time. So, we're skirmishes, but let's adjust it to the right measure. And, without wanting to go further into the motivating of this young man, what we consider to be priorities, the policy we have defended since this government and, above all, from the Department of Agriculture is to promote the Mediterranean diet. Why? 'Cause that's what we'd like, right? , which in general..., and because it is also well-founded scientifically, it is recognized for the same FAO, that is to say, the Mediterranean diet is and must be a bit of a pal, the referent of our agri-food sector. And here we'd like all the groups in this room to agree, too. We want Catalonia and Barcelona, mainly, which is currently where the Mediterranean Diet Foundation is, to continue without having the capitality of this great brand, which has a lot of projection to the world, which is recognized and which, in some ways, is a great alliance at the time of promoting our agri-food products also on the world markets. I invite you, in this sense, to abandon star debates and to bet folds to build opportunities for the welfare and salvation of our people and development for our agri-food sector. Before I enter... – and I leave behind all the other issues more concretely – for what it does to the topic of attacks on people and people, I remind you that there are issues of biodiversity that fall within the competence of the Department of Territory and Sustainability and that, if I may, I will not go any further and devote time to answering what is relevant to us and what is in the matter of wildlife damage. We are acting from the first moment, from the moment we took the advice on this issue, which is also abst at the European level, and we are taking emergencies, pushing an inter-departmental hunting plan, for the issue of wildlife damage, involving all the departments that affect them, because we need to have a cross-sectional view and in the long term, we need to manage these fauna populations well so that they do not spill over and generate damage. And then, at the same time, we are also motivating and driving the hunting law and, at the same time, we are developing a regulation, a decree to sell game meat, a very good way to order and help this: to manage better all this phenomenon which is certainly an ecosystem imbalance and which we need to find different measures to be able to take it in a comprehensive and sustainable way in the long term. And the rest of the themes, if I may, continue afterwards. "Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.55.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. That's what the congresswoman says to you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.56.0	Thank you, President. He'll advise, well, I agree that we have to deal with global visions, right? This whole thing, but you did deal with it in a global way and generalized everything I put to you. I think I have asked him some very concrete questions that he has not given an answer at the moment. I hope that in the next five minutes you can answer at least one of the questions I have asked you and that I will continue to ask you. And make a small correction: I think that the Mediterranean diet also includes meat, so we can give it the same support and not harm the producers, right? No harm. Well, I'd like to refer to the issue of help; the issue of help that I haven't given me time to deal with before. You all know, don't you? , that most of the money comes from the European Union through the ministries, therefore, to ensure the payment of aid that it maintains a fluid relationship with the ministry and does not want to disconnect, because this goes against our farmers and farmers. And even so..., and I'm surprised it sounds silly, but his attitude of breaking up with the rest of the autonomous communities hurts, even our fishermen. Because, look, with their negative that they can't have an inter-autonomous lawsuit, they're causing substantial hardships to respect the other eight communities that do have this lawsuit. To give an example: an Aragonese river fisherman, for twenty-five euros, can do so to seven autonomous communities, inclusa..., can come here, to Catalonia; in change, the català, for the same import of the license, twenty-five euros, can only do so to Catalonia. And as my partner, Alejandro Fernández, put it in committee, this is the result of these delusional psychedelic derivatives, of the process that ends up hurting ridiculously people who went through there and who have nothing to do with politics. And since I'm talking about recreational fishing, will you advise, when do you intend to deploy the law regulating continental fishing, specifically on 22/2009? Six years ago it was approved in this Parliament and we're still waiting. We know that it is not a priority for this department, but for the sector. And another question: in response to a parliamentary question she said that the management came from taxes, more than 1_million euros in the year 2015, directly affects the sector: signs of rivers, vigilance, repopulations, etc. But, Counselor, from the Catalan Fisheries Federation, they tell me that's not true. Could you tell us what these amounts of money have been allocated to? What are the laughs that have been sent? What vigilance has ended and where? Could you make this a reality for us? We regret the government's liability in front of a sector that is going through one of the worst moments. And returning to the payments pending for farmers, farmers and sector entities; a question that we are going to update precisely because when the debts come to fruition in this Parliament, it turns out that the legislature has already ended or there have been changes in the department. Always one thing or another, which means not to throw in front and, ultimately, not to pay. Today, we don't know what the total debt that the department has with the different sectors and what we would like to know, and that, as I said, a large part come from the European Union, the RDP, the CAP 2014-2020 aid, and therefore parties that are already registered and that are supposed to be there. What happens is that after the department manages it as it pleases, but the money is there. And here it is his responsibility to move the money wherever he plays. Counselor, we ask you to pay for the missing Dun 2015. You yourself recognized that those who own land in Aragó and better in Catalonia have not yet paid. Special rights, national reserve rights, autochthonous races, agriculture and ecology, mountain compensations, better plans... And another question we are asking the department, which is to answer the totality of the more than two thousand requests for help to the three modes of agricultural modernisation, taking into account that the European Commission for the PDR of Catalonia, 2014-2020, foresees for the year 2015 and 2016 the possibility of financing up to 100_million euros of aid between the incorporation of young people and the modes of agricultural modernisation. Finally, I believe that it is necessary to take a rest from the monographic past that was done on the agricultural world in July 2014, because, today, there are still many resolutions that have not been completed and where there was a compromise on the part of the Government to pull forward. Three advisors have gone by since then, I don't know how many directors-general, but farmers, rowers and fishers are still there, and for many years they are still there, and so they need a bit of stability and they are fulfilling their commitments, so we end up turning expectations into frustrations. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.57.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, there's the word "counsel."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.58.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, it's obvious that in the Mediterranean diet everyone... well, I was assuming that we here are aware that the Mediterranean diet, if anything, is that it's varied and that what they claim is, precisely, a consumption of all the Atlantics, the Carnics, the Boots, but also fruit and vegetables and..., right? A varied, balanced diet and responsible consumption, I gave by fact. Excuse me, I repeat this case publicly, if someone didn't know – that I doubt it, huh? But I think everybody knew that, yeah. For what he does to the other issues he's been enumerating, I'll try to be quick. As we say, the theme of the procession, which was very much linked, as I am sure, to the effects of the climate change. That is to say, we have a double objective, that it is to improve forest management, we need to manage our forests every more and better, the forest mass that, as I said in the previous inquiry, already occupies 60 percent of our territory and that is also the first and foremost strategy to control the plague of the procession. And, in short, we will certainly have to reiterate in the smoking strategy – that it is not the most appropriate because at European level, so, they do not allow it, and here we make the exception – through a biocidal product. And we're going to have to multiply, obviously, the fumigated hectares. We will try to give you the maximum amount of presupposition available, but obviously here again we will be another time with the presuppositionary limits that the department currently has. About the white language, I'll try to answer quickly, all that gives for long, huh? With regard to the health policy of the Council, in this concrete case we have maintained constant contact with the sector. We have three meetings with representatives, two technical follow-up meetings, seven other information meetings in the territory, and we have always said to the sector the same speeches: the responsibility as the department is to assume the responsibility we have in animal health and, at the same time, to ensure the best possible management to minimize the costs and adverse effects of the disease. We have to bear in mind that on April 26th, just now, the vector-free status has been declared, right? It was over. That is to say, Spain is no longer free of the vector of the blava language, and in addition to France there are 265 declared focus, and two are less than fifty kilometers from Catalonia, when the radius of security is one hundred and fifty kilometers. We've got two to fifty miles, now. This means that preventive vaccination has been boosted, because we have a real risk. The result of this preventive vaccination, which we have done more with much more time and much veterinary follow-up, now we have more than 200,000 bovine animals vaccinated and more than 100,000 ovine animals vaccinated. And at the level of adverse effects, which are investigated equally and which is not confirmed to be relevant to the vaccine, there are thirteen dead animals in the field and four abortions, and three abortions and one premature part in the bovi. You're saying, it's numbers that, compared, right? , with the reason there was 2008 show that we did and did things right; first. Next thing I know, I'm trying to answer it, too, and it's very important: let's just let go of the ramaderes. It is a challenge that, I can say with satisfaction, we are undertaking with compromises with the whole sector. The whole sector is very committed to pulling this forward. And we do this through lines that also have a global vision and that go hand in hand to prioritise organic fertilisation, to improve management in the wasteland and a lot – a lot – innovation, both in food and then in the possible complementary treatments of waste for energy effects, and here we have a Life project and we plan another Life project at European level. Therefore, maximum responsibility and collaboration with the sector. And a point, because it takes time. With regard to aid, which is said a lot and which is, with forgiveness, sometimes, too much demagogic, since the department all payments are made, all in terms. They're full. The effects of those shippers that actually depend on the Aragó and that are accounted for in 410 dispatchers of the 30's and call a thousand or 40,000 that there is no CAP aid..., these 410 are already in progress, and it is a delay that is caused to questions of the same Aragó Administration, that we do not want to blame them, because more than the deadline to be able to pay them is ended on June 30, 2016. Therefore, we complete, and we complete all levels and within the terms in all lines of help. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.59.0	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.60.0	...the rest of the issues, the committee will be delighted to be able to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.61.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into refugees]] [[302-00035/11]] The point of the order of the day is the motion following the question to the Government about refugees, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. To expose her, has the word Ms. Adriana Delgado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.62.0	Thank you, President. Deputies and deputies, councillors, good morning to everyone. Well, let me start with a reminder. I think it's worth it, especially talking about this. I would like to begin, therefore, by defending this young man by recalling a matter of substance that we will not tire of repeating, and it is because refugees are leaving their country because they do not feel safe, because their lives run dangerously, because they are causing bombs, and they are seeking security in other places, and they must be recognized and protected for a follow-up of international treaties and agreements, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the Geneva Convention, among others. We find ourselves in front of the most difficult humanitarian crisis since the Second World War – we have also been repeating every time we have talked about the issue –, derived from conflicts, especially, in Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria. This last conflict started more than five years ago, it caused 270,000 deaths and the displacement of nearly 5 million people. Before all this, we must contribute, therefore, to giving answers to the needs of refugees, but also to integration, and to being an act of origin, working in the prevention of conflict and its resolution, both from public institutions and from entities and civil society. At this point, I take the opportunity to greet..., and recognize the work of all those who work in this area, some representatives of whom accompany us here today. So welcome and thank you very much. The proposals of this motion demonstrate the determination to act in this sense, a compromise that has already been publicly expressed in the plenary, in Parliament, by the Lower and Romeva Councillors, before the inoperability of the Spanish State. It was one of the twenty-eighth signatories of the shameful agreement between the Member States of the European Union and Turkey, which casts in doubt precisely the fundamental rights of asylum and international protection. And this inaction of the Spanish State – you think that it was to assume, or to assume, dissipate thousands of refugees, assigned precisely for the European Union, and it has only joined divided – it has been recognized and criticized for other administrations and entities we say that people suspected of making this criticism, such as defenders of the people of all Europe, who gathered only a few days ago in Barcelona, or this same Tuesday at the International Forum on Hosting and Integration of Refugees in the European Union, in which some entities expressed this discomfort. For example, since September 2015 they're already ready, they're ready, for thousands of people, and they're not coming. In view of this situation, the motion integrates the Government's contribution to the solidary relocation of persons seeking asylum, pushing with the municipalities to create the maximum number of places in the Programme of reception and refuge..., and to inventory and give to know, obviously, the resources available precisely for reception and refuge. The proposed figures are already known, they have been explained publicly, too, and the proposal was finally made, we talked about it here, by letter from the President of the General to the European Commissioner for Immigration. We are, too; I remember a little bit of the figures: from 28 seats in Catalonia only a few months ago, the State Programme of Consolidation and Integration, went to 250; the Generalitat offered us 240 more; we can host 1,800 of them almost immediately, and 4,500 in the next two years. It's numbers. But we're talking about people. We are talking about men, women, great people, children, who must be treated with dignity. While waiting in the asylum petition process, public administrations need to get old because they have decent living conditions, they have information to be able to integrate and ultimately achieve personal autonomy. All this, and so it reflects the movement, from the hands of the municipalities and the entities, which must actively participate in the relocation, the gathering and the integration, because they are the real facilitators of all these processes. It is in the local or regional sphere where, above all, the integration of refugees is played, and it is these agents who must have the capacity to decide how to manage it, and now they do not have it. The movement, lastly, also retreats the reinforcement of cooperation to development, helping refugees not only in Catalan territories, but also in camps outside Syria and in transit countries, which is where the displacement of people has the most impact, and where we have Catalan entities working on projects on the ground. I'm done. I do so quickly, as in previous interventions, appealing to the solidarity of Catalonia. We are a host country; no one has chosen to be a refugee. And also call it memory. We have a story that reminds us that many of those who preceded us had to leave and that all of us could be refugees someday. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.63.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word "Mrs. Gabriela Serra", of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.64.0	Hello. Good morning, all of you. Welcome, companies and companies of Mare Mortum, which you are here to remind us of all that remains to be done. Well, the motion presented to Junts for the Yes, as the honourable Member has explained very well, they intend to give answers, help give answers, to the refugee crisis, which, unfortunately, in the last few months has occupied an important part of the political centrality. And let's celebrate this young man coming to this House. And the day we get in, we'll give support to the joint of your joint. However, the young person presents some aspects that deserve to be commented on and for which we have presented at the length of these different days, some of which have been accepted, such as removing the Spanish State's view from the policy of colliding, adding the Catalan Cooperation Fund as the actor to incorporate, recovering the role of entities specialising in the care of refugees, establishing how to re-adapte the policies of colliding of minors not accompanied and establishing the 4,500 people to colliding not as topall, but as a minimum. Others of the proposals we have made, unfortunately, have been rejected. And, precisely, there have been two concrete points that for us they had the greatest political fall and that they were unravelling..., and that were at the root of the question of this humane crisis. We agree that the Generality should show its commitment to the gathering, without quotas. But you must also show responsibility for the denunciation of the causes caused by refugees, as well as for the management of the crisis at European level, as well as for the establishment of a Catalan public policy in the field of international protection. That is why we want explicitly to speak of combating the causes of forced displacement in the world, through the strengthening of policies of cooperation and respect for human rights, and we want explicit condemnation of arms trade and military intervention to countries that are the emitters of refugees as the main causes of this human tragedy; provoked, of course. But this has not been accepted. We also applauded the denunciation of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey. But we wanted to go further, we wanted to go to the scene and denounce Turkey's responsibility for the systematic violation of human rights in relation to the Kurdish people. This item has not been accepted. We fear, we know, that Turkey is a powerful power, and before the powerful it always costs to give support to the fevers. However, Turkey is responsible for the collective expulsions which are expressly prohibited under Article 4 of the Fourth Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights; Turkey violates the principle of non-refoulement of Article 33 of the Geneva Convention, which states that no one can be returned to a country where his life is lost; Turkey is not a safe country for refugees, for its geographical exclusion clause of the Geneva Convention, Article 39, procedural directive, and more so because it does not guarantee the principle of non-refoulement of refugees. For the most part, there are no minimum standards in the gathering of refugees in Greece..., recognised by the European Court of Human Rights in 2011. Neither has this been accepted. We also posted not to speak so alone of Syria, since the conflict, and it was said to the presentation of this young man, cannot focus exclusively on Syria. Focusing on Syria is simplifying the issue and getting on the line of focusing only on the war in this country as a result of the crisis. In this way, it is justified that only Syrians enter the resettlement programmes from Turkey and discriminate against the rest of the nationalities. We wanted to talk about Jordan, we wanted to talk about Libya, but it did not seem opportune. In the same way, we want to denounce, and we want to denounce, the xenophobic drift of many states of the European Union. Remember the last expressions in Hungary, Austria, Denmark. We also remember that in the past time the racist and xenophobic right is in the grip of governments of mass states, and it seems that the rise of these forces does not have enough. And that's why it seems to us that it is calibre, lime, also, speaking of refugees, showing great concern, the concern relevant to what this European Union is converted into: a club of states that come to the right and that refuse to have policies worthy of gathering. In any case, and finally, "to continue to work in the defence of human rights and to hope that everything that we approve today, discuss and approve here, do not remain words and is converted into facts. Thanks, yes, to Mare Mortum's company and company so as not to fail in your pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.65.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.66.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, and people who follow us from the public gallery or through any of the media available to Parliament, the certainty is that we want, in the first place, to appreciate the availability of the Junts for Yes Group to deal with the issues that the Socialist Parliamentary Group had presented. We've traded the two backs of the three that we've presented, and the first, in fact, even though we haven't given it away because of the fact that we were worried about writing it disappeared in transactions with some other group, I suppose with the Popular Unity Candidacy. We also celebrate the introduction of several of the papers proposed by the Candidature of Popular Unity. I don't think I like to say that we've improved, but maybe we've completed the young man's visit. And I have to say that, of the various who did not accept or take over the CUP, the one that would have liked us most that we could have figured out was the one I had to see precisely with which Mrs Serra defended, right? , with the cause of the cause. Because to whom we studied right they taught us that the cause of the cause is the cause of the wrong caused. And, therefore, to reflect on the conflict to all that had been the fertile grower and now it is the deadly grower without making any mention of the Western military interventions that have had much to see with the origin of the conflict also in Syria, so it is a vision that may be short. And we must say that we are pleased that the attitude of the Government of the Generality is to make itself available to a more generous policy, a policy that is more willing to embrace. But what we see in the House, and we will support it at all its points, does not cease to be, and I say it with total respect, but to be absolutely honest, it does not cease to be a more part of quota policy. We are talking that we can relocate and we offer to relocate 4,500 people here, when what we need to do is to put pressure on all our governments so that there is no quota-based limitation, only because it is complete with international commitments, with provisions in the matter of international human rights to which the Member of Joints refers for the Yes, and therefore that it is a gift to all those people who need it, without quotas. Because, besides, you can't escape that it's relatively easy, and not the accusations of hypocrisy or cynicism in absolute, but it's relatively easy, when you don't have the skills, to make this display of a welcoming will, and it seems, a might have the feeling that we want to project on the Mirall an image that we like. And I'm glad there's some consensus in Catalonia, at least, let's just say, for what he does to the speech. But I think it would be hard to believe that we are absolutely immune to this ghost who, in actual fact, is using Europe with a fierce and primal face, expressing all the atticic points that may be there and that he has taken things politically with extreme right-wing xenophobic formations that are not only gathering some success in the polls, which we should be concerned about, but also influenced by the theoretically more focused political formations, which is something that we should be much more concerned about, right? Because it is not only a matter of seeing certain states rise walls not only with the external borders of the European Union, but also between countries of the European Union, but what we should be most concerned about is something that this drawing that is said El Roto, which makes authentic graphic editorials every time that makes a winery, said yesterday; he said: "The yarns are not necessary because we all take them to the inside. And the reflection, therefore, is to see that a little bit of cost, thanking a little on the surface, is to pour out this layer of civilization that we have been putting ourselves into the world with so much effort and how easy it is to resuscitate these by-laws to others, isn't it? And in this conflict and in this human crisis this other is very easy to draw and caricaturize: it has another color of skin, it speaks another language, maybe given to other gods, etcetera, right? And we must therefore make a further effort because this policy of por, which in reality always wants to be a policy of the domain, not necessarily on the other, but on this community which in our day, therefore, cannot triumph. Because every time people take refuge at the external borders of the European Union, every time someone dies in an attempt to cross a border, it is really our principles, our values and the idea of this illustrious, progressive, open Europe that at some point existed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.67.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.68.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, today Convergence, from the left hand, presents us a motion against Europe and against an agreement that has the support of all the Member States of the European Union. I would say that there is a certain resentment towards the European Union, I don't know exactly why, but this is what you see with this young man. On 18 March, the European Council reached an agreement with Turkey on the serious migration and refugee crisis. They needed more measures and more support to fight the traffickers and, above all, to prevent any person from being deceived by them and risking their lives using the dangerous maritime lives, lashing out into the sea, they thought it was the only way to escape a desperate situation. We all want to help people who are patenting persecutions for political or religious motives. The question is like. What the Government of Spain did at this summit was to transfer the agreements that were adopted at the Congress of Deputies, with the favourable vote of all the parliamentary groups, as well as those who today are presenting this motion. Defending those agreements, that consensus, President Rajoy introduced some Spanish contributions to the agreement; the first and most important: that all that is achieved remains in strict compliment of the international law and of the European Union, and, therefore, any form of collective expulsion is terminated. It also adopted the Spanish petition for which any asylum application is dealt with individually by the authorities of Greece in accordance with the Asylum Procedure Directive. And another Spanish petition accepted with special attention to vulnerable people, that for each Syrian returned to Turkey from the Greek islands, a Syrian will be resettled to the European Union taking into account the criteria of vulnerability of the United Nations. For the way we have dealt with our papers, the papers of the People's Party, and the unwillingness of dialogue, we understand that the young people are not seeking any consensus or solution today, but simply seeking a conflict, in this case against the European Union. The People's Party, in turn, will act responsibly and we will vote in favour – we will vote in favour – of those points that we believe are in the line of offering tools to accommodate refugees and we will not do so to those points that are merely political propaganda. There's a lot of ways to help, but there's got to be the best, not the best. Because people can get the feeling that this young man's proposers prefer to stay well before they help the refugees. We know his background and, above all, we know his obsession, which is to make Catalans believe that the Generality is a leading geopolitical actor. But the only thing they can do is get the image of Catalonia. And the evidence is that no one wants to meet with a president of the Generality obsessed with a toxious process for European democracies. And they'll still find more doors locked if they threaten, as they did yesterday, with the Kosovar way to get someone to Brussels someday. Without doing so many skirmishes, the previous presidents of the Generality were rejected at the highest institutions of the European Union. Leialty works harder than not threatening it, and it's more worthy. To use human tragedies to make propaganda or to take the lead in the international scene is not ethical, it is not well, nor will it have the electoral slogan that they seek, for many, because many Catalans already see them coming from the moon. And speaking of Kosovo, the Syrian refugee crisis is possibly the greatest humanitarian crisis in Europe from the wars of ancient Yugoslavia. But listening to the question of the Ple past, both the Councillor's intervention and that of the Member of the European Union for the Yes, I had the feeling that they were all along to hear the complexity and gravity of this issue, a problem which can only be dealt with with with with with with agreement between all the states of the European Union and with humanity, with humanity, with sense and loyalty, not with simplicity or propaganda. There are governments in Europe of communities, regions, Länder, which do not agree with what their states have granted. Some believe that the agreement is too hard; others believe, pressed by populism, by xenophobia, that it is too much. But I am against the proposition of this young man who tells me one, just a regional government from all over Europe that is acting with so much lewdness and with so much desire to give the note as the Catalan government is doing. And, of course, today others attacking the Government of Spain and Europe should also be made to look. All European governments have signed the agreement with Turkey, among them fifteen socialist governments: French, Italian, and even the Greek government. And I am surprised that today the Catalan Socialists are separating themselves from the rest of the European Socialists. If Pedro Sánchez was president of the government, or if he was vice president of Pablo Iglesias, which is now being proposed, I would also sign this agreement, because, without being a perfect agreement – and I recognize that it is not a perfect agreement – it is an important step to fight against the mafias and to save the lives of thousands of refugees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.69.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms. Susana Beltrán, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.70.0	Thank you, President. I also welcome my students from the Barcelona Institute of International Studies, who, although, therefore, is a young man not presented for us, seemed to us to be quite interesting that you also see political aspects of the whole refugee problem, which affects everyone. I have to say, anyway, when I saw it, right? The transactions they made to us at the end of this young man, so it seemed to me that it was a motion that in many respects seemed to go to..., or to have an antivalue spirit of the European Union, because it was one of the points that we had proposed and that did not only not take into account, but that they did not even come into contact with us to see, or, as a minimum, therefore, to say why they did not accept each other, did they not? And at times, too, it seems to us that it is uncompromising to work together to find solutions to problems that concern us all in the measure that we have not had any contact. That said, I was surprised, also in relation to the motion, that we understand... and, in fact, the proposal has now been made, but not after seeing the outcome of this motion... was that it came from a letter sent by the President of the General to the Commissioner in charge of these aspects, and that the answer, therefore, was that the Commissioner gave, right? This question seemed to us to be very important, and we appreciated positively the solidarity of the citizens of Catalonia and, in concrete terms, the Government, and in the same way we appreciated very positively the response given by the European Commissioner. And it's funny because the answer the European Commissioner gave doesn't fit the reason that he's here today, which surprise me a lot. The Commissioner clearly speaks of two aspects that are very important to resolve or to deal with with with a certain guarantee of success the whole issue of migration and the whole issue of people who are in a situation of persecution from the world. And he talks for one gang, for solidarity, and for another gang, he talks about responsibility, huh? From the point of view of solidarity, to say the least, with regard to this young man. We understand that you objected, therefore, to helping those refugees who are in Catalonia, right? In change, respect responsibility, enough to say, huh? It is enough to say why the Commissioner's answer was very clear in saying: "We, in order to be able to address in all its aspects, in an integral way, the issue of refugees, we will act on the basis of the principle of solidarity and responsibility. What does responsibility mean by the same European commissioner? It means working, because this is a success, from what is called "multilevel governance; that is, from all levels of administration, whether they are states, whether they are sub-state governments like ours. I, from this perspective, the European Commissioner, therefore, rejoices, says, in this context – I quote, literally – his active policy, right? to assist and integrate immigrants in need of international protection in their region is a step in the right direction. Also, in this same letter, with the same answer, the European Commissioner invites... – and in some respects it seems that it is a clam – he invites the Government of Catalonia to coordinate with the State in order to address a topic that, in the most important competitions, corresponds to the State. All this is not seen in this young man. Then, hardly from Catalonia we can contribute to resolving positively the whole refugee issue if we are not able to work together with the State. And that Spain, which also..., so – and it is also made manifest in this letter – there are many very critical aspects: it is not able to collaborate with the other states of the European Union to address jointly an issue that we believe that if it is not jointly we will not get out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.71.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, there is the word Joan Josep Nuet, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.72.0	Thank you very much, President. I, in the first place, also greet the Companions and Companions of Stop Mare Mortum. I think it's very important that you're here and, more importantly, that you follow up on the parliamentary debate, because you help us not to be wrong. The first thing I want to do is something that sometimes Parliament does not intend to do, but I will do it: I want to thank Adriana, the Member of Parliament Adriana Delgado, because I think she has had the ability to listen, to negotiate and to be sensitive to things that others think, and that they have finally joined this young man. She knows that this young man is still missing a lot of things, that we have to keep working because the issue wasn't over here, and, above all, he can't stay on paper dumb, and we have to make a clear follow-up of government action because what the Catalonian Parliament says – or what it will say, in an Estonian – is the same as the Catalonian government does. That's very important. And, of course, the main group that supports the government is instrumental in this task. So let's get to work. We say we have to go further. For example, we have to listen to Catalan civil society, which has a long experience and a lot of knowledge on the subject of refugees. Therefore, we are asking these days for all the parliamentary groups to help us, and that all the petitions call for the appearance in the Parliament of Catalonia of people like Asil. Cat or Stop Mare Mortum, because, not in five minutes, but with a long appearance, they can come here to explain their experience, their proposals, that parliamentary spokespersons are escorting them, and make a political debate. Because the subject will go on, and we've been going on for a long time, already, with this debate, and the subject went on further. Therefore, it is essential that the chamber raise the list of the political debate on the subject of refugees. And it's fundamental because we want to incorporate in Parliament's agreements fears, some that are targeted in the House, others that do not appear in the House. For example, the origin of the conflict. We need to talk about the origin of the conflict. It's very important to talk about the origin of the conflict, because if we don't understand why people are here, we really can't hear what's behind it. Mirin, there are refugees here for many fears. First, economic refugees; those who are sometimes more invisible. People who have been coming for a long time because they can't make a living on their land, and we have them here among us, and with them we can't wait for quotas, we can take care of them, we can help them. And, therefore, it should already be an active policy of this government. Two. Refugees who come from Belic conflicts, naturally. We bombed Iraq, Libya, Syria. The European Union has shamed its role in Ukraine, and many Ukrainians come to this land because there is war and conflict with a country that is at the border of the European Union. So, we need to talk about this, because if we continue to do the same politics in Libya, Iraq and Ukraine, people will continue to come desperately to knock on our door. And we need to talk, for example, about environmental refugees. In Africa people are dying – they are dying. The same thing that happened to people in this country in the fifties and sixties to their peoples, when they went to Germany or Switzerland, and therefore this is a reality that we need to analyze and have global answers. Therefore, I mean that the cooperation policy of the Government of Catalonia is engaged in this debate; it is not separate from this debate, it is the same debate. Cooperation in origin is fundamental. Secondly, we must clearly assume that we are the southern border, that we are part of the European border and that we, as part of the border, need that asylum and refugee policies remain public policies, not exception, are part of the public policies of our country. And, therefore, we have to have action plans, permanent collide structures, assumptions. What will be the generality's assumptions on this issue? We don't know, but it's important that we find the refugees and refugees who live here with us. Therefore, this is a matter of substance. And obviously, we want political leadership. Political leadership – and profit, because there is the counselor – is free. You don't have to see the premise, you have to see the political option, the political compromise. And, therefore, to lead politically means that there are so many gatherings in Catalonia that they could be doing things, and the Government of the Generality has to set itself up in front to help that this is co-orders and that this is leaders. Many more things: the Pla de protection internationale de Catalunya; the safe lives with respect to human rights; yes, condemn the agreement of the European Union with Turkey. This European Union that yesterday suggested that the countries of the Union could pay for not hosting refugees, what an infamy, because I can't find another word, what an infamy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.73.0	I know it's hard, but time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.74.0	And, obviously – I'm finished – finally, fight racism and xenophobia. He who passes to Holland, France or Alemanya can pass to Catalonia. Therefore, units—units, yes—against racism. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.75.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms. Adriana Delgado, to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.76.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, from the start, thank you to all the groups for their contributions. As has been said, so some of us have ended up trading, some of us have accepted them. With the CUP - Constituent Creed and PSC, therefore, we have done this; we have accepted CUP statements that we believe together, as we have commented, with transactions also with the PSC, so they improve the initial text that we have presented. We have not talked, we have debated, we have managed to reach agreements to expand the proposals – I think this –, improve them and complement them. The thought of what the company of the CUP refers to, that of combating the causes that generate forced displacements to the world through the strengthening of cooperation policies in the development of human rights, we were talking about it; there was also a willingness to trade it, we did not reach an agreement, but I think we talked about it, we tried, but in the end, we did not succeed, but we still did, in any case. I want to comment on some of what we have added to the motion, to complement it, for example: giving more visibility to entities, to civil society, recalling the need for legal and safe lives. We have also introduced civic awareness of anti-rumor discourses, we believe it is important because we have to combat stereotypes that affect coexistence. We are also talking about those people in need of international protection who are already living in Catalan territories, and to whom we can also ensure access to the right of asylum. To reject the agreement of the Member States of the European Union with Turkey, which we have already commented puts in doubt the same right of asylum. We have also added the deployment of the International Protection Board that we believe is important and that it is a petition that we have received from entities. Thanks, too, to Catalonia Yes it is Pot, to the words of the company Nuet. They haven't submitted papers, but we haven't been talking, and we'll keep talking and working, so, in these two lines, right? : looking for lives to respond to the need to gather and integrate refugees..., demanding a major management in the gathering, and also, as several companies have commented, in cooperation in the origin. For the rest of the groups, the People's Party, Ciutadans, we have not accepted their reviews. Four of five basically refer, in different levels of terminology, in the relationship, in the collaboration to maintain in this field with the Spanish State, even though now also speaking of the European Union, of the values of the European Union that in no case reference. I said he was changing the wording, but it was all about the Spanish State, Spain, one thing or another. When I saw the papers, the truth was that I was very happy, because it seemed to me that the important thing was the rest of the show and there was no mention of it. Resent with the European Union? Yes, we have to say that we must rethink the management of the crisis, it is obvious, and we must put people's needs ahead of us, the compliment of human rights and compromise both financial and human assistance. Finally, the Committee of the Regions of the European Union says that the territorial authorities must actively participate in the system of distribution and relocation of the applicants...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.77.0	Congresswoman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.78.0	... and beneficiaries of international protection. Therefore, no resentment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.79.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]] We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.80.0	For a separate vote on points 3, 3a– 3 and 3a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.81.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.82.0	Thank you. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.83.0	The vote's on... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We're holding the vote. Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word? I'm sorry, I didn't see her.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.84.0	She was wearing a stool, so... For a separate vote, more than points 3 and 3a, 4 and 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.85.0	I have been asked to vote separately on 3, 3a, 4 and 6. We shall therefore begin the vote by voting on these four points and then vote on the motion. Okay? Mrs. Granados? Oh, you were going to vote already? Ah. [[Rialles.]] We're voting point three. The vote begins. It was approved by 97 votes to 11, with 25 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on the 3a point. The vote begins. It was approved by 98 votes to 35, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point four. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes to 11. Next, we'll vote on point 6. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes to 11, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the quality of employment]] [[302-00032/11]] The agenda item is: Motion following the question to the Government on the quality of employment presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mr. Pol Gibert. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please ask them to shut up. [[Pause. The remorse of the voice persists.]] Please, I'd ask them to be quiet. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.86.0	Thank you, President. Bon midia, MPs, MPs, Constellera Bassa, members of the Government. Two weeks ago we brought to this Parliament the increase in accidents at work that affect this country. We have faith in the formula, which has already made a certain reputation, which is set up on our labour market, the formula of «more temporality, more accidents and harder. Our group considered that, taking advantage of the recent celebration of World Health Day in the world of work, it would be a good time to put on the table how the world of work is in Catalonia and how our workers suffer accidents at work; above all a time to propose solutions to this problem that our country has seen. It is clear – and we have also said to the question – that the policies of adjustment as a way out of the crisis have brought detail, deregulation, instigation of working conditions and a precariousness of the group of workers in this country. All this has made it difficult to exercise workers' rights and has made the inequality we live deeper. Moreover, in this context, the devaluation of the conditions of safety and health, above all, has been propitious for the loss of workers' rights and has led to a negation of the trend that we have been carrying in recent years. This context has made the work of workers in this country cause them to be helpless in the face of the abuses they suffer day after day and bear on their own salvation these consequences. That is why we want to replenish today which for us is a fundamental pillar of the current situation: the Labour Reform of the People's Party, and which counted on the support of Convergence and Union. But not only this: it also highlights the lower effectiveness of the surveillance and inspection policies of the Department of Labour, which obviously have not helped to rebalance the situation. The raison d'être of our young man was aimed at promoting the necessary measures so as to bring about this second point: the government's powers, above all because this Parliament has already spoken several times about labour reform, has not called for the repeal of one or two, but today we want to focus on the debate that we have as a parliament and also as a government. And to do that, and to go into detail, we consider it necessary to have a planning of the activities of the Labour Inspectorate in three large areas. The first of them: that it must exercise strict control over the compliment of the regulations in the prevention of occupational risks. We find that there are still companies that do not have any type of preventive organization and therefore do not have any activity in this sense. Others, with the excuse of the crisis, have either retaliated or simply not the fan either. Therefore, it is necessary to enforce the rule to bring this situation back to life. On the other hand, as a second point, it must minimize the impact it has on the labour market and its workers, and above all on their health, the precariousness of working conditions. Obviously, we do not resign and we continue to struggle because these conditions can change, but while it is also important to start acting. And, in the last place, it is necessary to avoid temporary and part-time fraudulent contracting, as well as the fraudulent application of convenient collections. We believe that a planning and subsequent evaluation of these three large areas is vital in order to address the main problems arising from the devaluation of working conditions, and so we gather it to the motion that we bring to the plenary today. Another issue that also concerns us and that has been reported for several years is the fight against occupational diseases. It's a very short topic when we talk about occupation, but it affects thousands and thousands of workers directly. Occupational malaise fills up that there are workers who suffer day by day in their work a wear and tear and some physical consequences on their own salvation. Moreover, the data show an increase and, what is most worrying, a concealment of the psychosocial and ergonomic risks of his work. Without going any further, the year 2014 more than three thousand Catalans and Catalans suffered at some point a malaise of work character recognized as such. Because also, let's make it clear, there are many times that workers suffer from unrecognized maladies, and the cipher could multiply up to four. Therefore, in this area the government has a long way to go, and we want to start pushing it so that it starts doing it the better. On the other hand, later months we have seen various initiatives around us to attack these fraudulent contracts in areas such as hospitality or commerce. We believe that with the will of the sector, with social agents and with the government, it is possible to improve the conditions of thousands and thousands of workers in our country. That's why we expect a powerful campaign in this environment, especially in view of the summer season. And that's why we're asking for a report with which, afterward, we can know the impact of this campaign on the protection of workers and the ability, of course, to assess its results. As we have already mentioned, the relationship between devaluation of working conditions, for one band, and accidents at work, for the other, comes to light. However, we believe that it is necessary to have reliable data on the main variables that affect accidentality in the world of work. That's why we're presenting this young man and we're also hoping that he'll have the support of this room, because we think it's a cross-cutting issue, that we care about a lot of people and that we want to, our own...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.87.0	He's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.88.0	...mesos, start working. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.89.0	Thank you very much. Next, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí, of the Parliamentary Group Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.90.0	Thank you, President. Before I started, I wanted to make a statement. This morning they dislocated the Space for the Dreams, in Igualada, one of the spaces that forms part of the map of ateneus and couples of the Catalan Countries, self-managed oasis that work for the culture and self-organization of our young, and it must be said that it is our people the best structure of state that we have. So, from this gel stick, we send them a strong hug. Turning to the motion, from the CUP - Creed Constituent to us seemed a proper motion, it is necessary to talk about job inspection, it is necessary to talk about labor and health rights, but, in our opinion, it is necessary to do it from an integral focus. I'll explain. The young person is talking about the control of work-related diseases, and we think that we should go a little further, and go to work-related illnesses that do not recognize, that we should talk about fibromyalgia or muscle pains such as work-related illnesses, for example, in hotel clean work, that we should talk about – that the young person talks about, but it links me to work inspections – chemical sensitivities or asbestos; that's all we need to talk about. We also need to talk about sexual and reproductive health problems for sex workers. So we understand that we need to go to the bone spring. And this bone spring also has another window, which is the window of... That's to say, the motion refers to the need to penalize fraudulent contracting; we also understand that it's very necessary, but we also understand that this way can't go apart from another way, that it's the recognition of certain jobs or the recognition that certain people can work. I explain myself, and I return to the same example: sex work is not recognised as work; therefore, it gives a whole series of situations of vulnerability with which, if we only penalize companies but we do not guarantee rights, we are putting people in a situation of high vulnerability. Or all those workers, for example, in an irregular administrative situation that is not recognised, directly, is the right to work or the right to work formally. We understand that this is another of the ambits, another of the springs of the bone that we should approach. And that's why we abstain from point 1.c, not for nothing, just because we understand that we only convey it to the control of the contract without recognizing rights or workers..., or workers' rights– forgive– or right to work, you don't hear very much. This is the case, for example, of Esfosa's wave, to Osona. And I would like to say that in Catalonia, the popular economy and the informal economy are the ones that are enduring, in many respects, the crisis and that, therefore, above all, what we have to do is to guarantee rights. Finally, we have also introduced another theme, which is one of the things that seems to us to be that it is also soft on the bone, which is on the subject of ICAM. If we are talking about labor and health rights in Catalonia, we need to talk about ICAM and we need to talk about how this body feels, which in many cases is going through the recognition of these rights. The criteria for the rationalisation of medical expenditure are rigid in the management of casualties and in the management of invalids. The year 2007, the days of midjana fall were a 12.7; in change, the year 2013, they have dropped to 9. As for invalids, the year 2008 is rejected a 27,28_percent of invalids, and in 2013, a 40_percent of the cases. We understand that the ones who have not dropped are, say, neither the accidents at work nor the situation of vulnerability of the workers; the other day the deputy Marc Vidal, yesterday, in fact, told us, talking about work leftlessness. We understand that what has been lowered is the guarantee of labor rights and that, therefore, I should like to address – and in this sense we thank the Member of the PSC who has accepted the issue – this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.91.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mrs Carmen de Rivera, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.92.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, this motion will have the support of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group in most of its points. And I will start by talking about the amendment that has not been accepted, to make it clear that it cannot be concluded with the lightness with which it is made, in a motion for a resolution on occupational risks, that only the 2012 labour reform is the driving force behind the deterioration and precariousness of wages, as well as the devaluation of conditions and health at work. Because in all the governments of the Spanish People's Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, which is the only thing we have had from democracy to here, we have had models of unemployment and precariousness, and we remain unresolved this transcendental issue of unemployment. And it is that the Socialist Group in this motion deliberately forgets the 2010 reform, the reform made by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, who contributed to his job insecurity. And it is that the 2010 reform of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero has already started a series of changes that, together with that of the People's Party of 2012, have not solved or solved the real problem that we have at the moment in Spain with unemployment. And I would like to remind you, before continuing, that it was in 2010 that the express dismissal was established and for the first time, the pay cut was allowed. And that is why we ask the Socialist Party of Catalonia, above all, rigour in a motion where aspects as important as the prevention of occupational risks and safety at work are discussed. And we turn to the accepted amendment, which, in summary, is to plan and evaluate the actions of the Labour Inspectorate aimed at adequate preventive activity by the company supervised by the Labour Inspectorate, and thereby improve the safety and health of working conditions, and check, at the same time, and help businesses, and we hope that very particularly to medium and small employers, as a technical body that is the Labour Inspectorate, to training in specific prevention and appropriate to each job. And we thank you for having accepted this amendment, because one of the main problems that has been identified and that lead to more non-compliance when talking about prevention of occupational risks is the inadequacy of assessments with the specific situations of the company. There are many reasons why labour risk prevention legislation is not being complied with, but one of the main reasons is that we do not have a preventive culture, either in companies or in the workers themselves. Among other things, it often happens that it costs, it costs a lot of money, especially for small business, and there is no awareness that it is not an expense but an investment; it is an investment in improving working conditions and it is an improvement for everyone, for business and workers. Finally, I would like to refer to paragraph 7 of the motion, which refers to the drawing up of a specific inspection plan to comply with the 2_per_cent of the quota for persons with disabilities, as set out in the Lismi. There is an urgent need for action and a strong commitment in this regard to persons with disabilities, as access to work is a very important route for their full integration. Nothing more. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.93.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, there is the words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.94.0	Thank you very much, President. It would be unfair, and even sectarian, for my part, to deny the Socialist Party any positive contribution in its long history. In fact, I believe that all the political formations that we have had government responsibilities since the recovery of democracy have brought our grieving grain. Now, I think it would be even more unfair, and even sectarian, if you don't remember and if you don't recognize that, if in anything you've highlighted, it's in the occupation, in the occupation destruction. In this you are insurmountable, perfect machines, that never fail. It is metaphysically impossible to find a ruler, one, in the history of the Socialist Party, is said González, Zapatero, Montilla, or whoever it is, that has left better job data than it was. Despite this evidence, they continue to test and give lessons to those who stand out for all the contrary; that we have many defects, of course, but if we stand out for something, it is said Aznar or Rajoy, it is to leave in inheritance better labor data than we have ever seen. Therefore, we cannot accept the first part of the motion, making categorical assertions against labor reform attributing to it all the precariousness of the world or even less security to labor. It's not a new strategy for the Socialist Party. The year 2004 you were presented to the elections said that you would liquidate the mileurism, which was the great evil. And God's faith that they got it: they sent up to 4 million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million million Now they say they want to avoid job insecurity again and they want to apply the same receipts as then. Cal would, therefore, trembling. Mirin, the best of working conditions is not a day's flower, not a cau del cel, cost a lot, governments that govern. History shows me. And now it's getting better; the data are absolutely strong: the indefinite contract in Spain has risen by 20_per_cent in the period 2014-2015, we have a 24-per_cent new stable occupation in less than twenty-five years in the same period. It is necessary to continue in this line, to deepen it, to set new priorities, but not to liquidate it. And, therefore, we will not accept this first part of the motion. The second part of the young lady has interesting things. Indeed, you want to improve the job inspection. And we have come to some compromise; we consider that there are interesting things. We have, however, presented other points which you have not accepted. It is clear that the need not to treat the employer as a sadist who " enjoys work insecurity; if there is anyone interested in job security, it is precisely the employer, the most interested, together with the workers, the first interested that his company works well. We wanted to add in this sense a point in which entrepreneurs can participate in the design of this job inspection, which you have not accepted. Unfortunately, they are returning to this vision of good and bad in the field of work, a vision that we have always fought, something that has always allowed us, always, also, to bring positive data to the labor market and to fulfill what is the great specialty of the People's Party, which is occupation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.95.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Lord Chakir the Homrani, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.96.0	MPs, MPs, councillors, presidents, members of the Bureau, we are in front of a motion that certainly treats the second most important sacre that we have; it is to say, if the first is the twilight, the second is the quality of the occupation and the precariousness. And it touches one aspect that's key, and I think that in this sense it's seen, it touches him a lot from the field of work inspection, but I think it's important that we do some more general reflections before we get into the subject. I mean, we have an obligation to fight against precariousness, we have an obligation to deal with this precariousness that has come to such a Kafkian situation in which you are a risky collector for most of your life. And if you look like a woman or if you have other family names, more. From here, the young person has a very specific affect around the job inspection. Our reviews, and we have commented on them with Mr. Gibert, who has had a great deal of willingness to get to the dial, have basically been very technical, because we have had the fate that this young man came two weeks after the clear message that the Department of Work has brought to expand the workforce inspection template to face these situations and to improve what control is about working conditions. And we are aware that we will not make it all the way, but we must make every effort, every effort, to try to improve these conditions. But then there is one aspect that is very curious, that is: we go to a very technical place, with elements of the reports, with elements that are also sometimes a little bit of Perogrullo and also does the Administration, but it's fine..., but then we don't want to go to a debate that is mandatory, which is: all this has been marked in a legal framework, in a legal framework in which, unfortunately, we don't have the opportunity to influence. Then you have various points that place you in this legal framework in which we do not give ourselves the opportunity, like representatives of the Catalan citizens and citizens, to have a real influence. And this is paradoxical, a very great paradox; that is to say, we do not want to act on a reality that we know that the only way to change it is to be able to face competitions that deny us. And that, to me, really, makes me a baser, because I think we have the obligation and the opportunity to act. And then we're doing a lot of symbolic votes, and I totally agree, and we've already voted, and we're talking about the Spanish legal framework, but we don't give ourselves the opportunity to change it; we're talking about the importance of concertation, we're clear that it's a government that wants to focus work on the world of work, on concertation, but we don't give them to do it. Okay. Jo, the truth, I am ashamed when I look at a city or a citizen, saying: "Well, no. Oh, yes! While there are elections there, they will pass again, here we are voting, and it is fine, but there will be no change. And we know that we will have such a small influence on the change that... I think that the deputy of Ciutadans has made a reflection that was curious, that..., that is to say, in the Spanish State they have ruled the PSOE and the PP, the PSOE and the PP, the PP and the PSOE; many changes will not be there. And I don't think the status of the legal framework of the world of work has improved, much less. And besides, if you listen to what Ciutadans and the deputy of the PP put you up to, then you'll be trembling, and you say, "Well, then, we're already going to make symbolic votes here, but while we're pulling strips. I think it's a shame, huh? And I, with which I will take advantage of any moment to say, come with great strength, let us try to strike, let us try to fly, let us be protagonists, and let us not have for ourselves, therefore, let me say again: "Hey, we are protagonists, let us try to make a real change. And the real change is having an impact on these competitions. I think that the reflection made by Mrs Vehi, of the integral approach..., was very correct; it is that, if not, we make partial approaches, and that is why this reflection, because we need the integral approach. To thank the MP of the PSC for his willingness to agree, but to give him a little thought: I sometimes doubt whether I am negotiating a motion or a press release. I think we should think about that, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.97.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, there is deputy Marc Vidal, of Catalonia Yes, he is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.98.0	Yes, thank you, President. I thought I was playing after Mr. Alejandro, and I was going to say that it's always stimulating to come out after the "charitable words that Mr. Alejandro dedicates to us all the working class when they are leaders, logically, to have brought this working class to the one we saw in the Node a few years ago; the working class and others. But, certainly, it's even more stimulating to get out of Mr. Chakir's intervention, because it refers to how, ruling Spain the People's Party and the Socialist Party, the working class was at this time; remember: always with the support of Convergence and Union. There is no innocence in this matter. In any case, after this very stimulating question, we consider it of great interest that we devote time to discussing, discussing and proposing measures with particular reference to occupational health. In fact, the exhibition of what we did yesterday, which is also an inquiry in these same terms, and which I assure you that, as there is a young man here who speaks of some fears, I will make sure that the young man you present is, as if we say, a deepening or a continuation of this so that we do not repeat ourselves. We agree with the overall approach made to the motion, and we already said that we would vote for it, and it seems to us that the points that have been accepted are also correct. Now, the debate, precisely in order not to make symbolic votes, the debate must have a consequence in the executive action of the Government, because what is asked of it has the capacity to do so, it is possible to do so and, in any case, we hope that the will to do so, and that it does not approve only rhetorically because, then, in this fantasy country, we approve things and is not a fan. Tea instruments, the Labour Inspectorate, with this enlargement that has made by undressing one saint to dress another [[Funnel veils]] , and also in the performance... – yes – and also in the performance of accounts... – well, we will discuss it already – in the subsequent performance of the report that is asked in this motion. We are pleased... we are grateful that our only task, which, although it is declarative, was to place the focus on what we said yesterday: the responsibility for the failure of the Law of Prevention of Occupational Risks, of the year 95, which, five years later, did not solve the serious problem that the work continues to affect the people of Catalonia and that, at last, it puts the lives of some people at risk. And the counselor was right, yesterday, when she said that her obligation is not the prevention of work safety, but the control of this. That's right. That's why our idea placed the focus of the problem in our companies – perhaps a different view than that of Mr. Alexander – in its conjunction, eh? : Entrepreneurs, workers, workers, place of work, tools of prevention, mechanisms of adaptation of place of work. But the responsibility that a worker and a worker work safely and do not lose their salvation is of the enterprise, alt and clear: to say it. What needs to be put in place is the firm, tall and clear. The one who has to organize the prevention services is the company. And the workers must be organized, let them use the negotiating tools, let them live for their salvation, let them demand the compliment of the norm. So, as the councilwoman says, who has to control the compliment of all this is the government. And if it's left alone, it's not hot to recognize and take responsibility for what's happening to us. And what's happening to us is that after twenty years we didn't think we could work safely and without losing our salvation – we didn't think we did. We have taken prevention as a more bureaucratic issue, which stifles the work and which should be pulled over. A quarter of our companies do not prevent, because of the causes that follow, for the industrial fabric that we have... – a quarter of the companies do not prevent. They haven't completed the law in 20 years, and no one made them do it. Isn't that left? In other words, we have a diagnosis with a whole series of figures, we have an important clear descent from the prevention of safety and health in Catalonia's corporate fabric, and we have the lack of integration of this prevention as an element that could allow us to be able to design secure workspaces and workspaces without. But we have chosen, as always, for easy trade and fast trade; we have chosen to reduce production costs by focusing on the reduction of working conditions; we have chosen to shift the responsibility of the Administration and the undertakings to the mutuals of accidents, which they do not cease to be business with any kind of work; it is to say, we have chosen, like other times, to make the strategy of the construction. And, therefore – I finish – if we do the stratification of the estruço, be the coats of arms before us the eclate of the problem. Never before have the prevention services been so ineffective to prevent it. Never as now do the mutuals lean away from their responsibility to serve and pay for it. Never as now the Catalan Institute of Medical Evaluations sent so many malalta people to continue working...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.99.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.100.0	...and then make it worse – thank you, President. Cal a thought on the ground like the country and cal to do it urgently...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.101.0	Thank you very much, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.102.0	...and the government should lead her. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.103.0	Next, has the word Mr. Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.104.0	Thank you, President. This was a young man who intended to pose some solution to a topic that is complex, that is complicated, that many see day by day... ; try to bring a grain of grin to this topic. But I see that it has provoked the iniquitous electoral campaign in this Parliament, so, look, one day it had to be and it continued today, right? Go ahead, as well as campaign interventions, my thanks for the contributions made by the different parliamentary groups, some recognizable from the text. In concrete terms: to the Ciutadans Group, tell him that we have been able to work to develop point 3, a point that was important and that we have been able to work to, let's say, do it..., work it more deeply, and also for the reference made by the Ciutadans MP on the subject of labour reform. The harmful consequences of labour reform... don't tell this congressman, they say unions, they say much, they say data, let's say it, to be objective. I invite the Ciutadans Group, that now, let's say, one day it is let see for the U of Maig, in demonstrations with unions, that ask them, to see what they think. I mean, I'm saying it because I see that we're not ourselves, but that it's the unions, too, that say what we, in this young man, give to the beginning. To the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot..., man, thank your initial part of the motion, because I think it enriches it a lot and also focuses on a much more concrete topic, which is also a main cause of the increase in accidents at work, and which we have incorporated into the final text. With the PP, see, let's say, the difference that was obvious. To find that we value labor reform as a fact..., a hardship to the workers, while the People's Party sees it as the inician, let's say, of a new stage of growth and the better future for the whole working class. Therefore, let's say, our point of origin is already very different; therefore, it will be difficult for us to find each other. And also tell them that as soon as they make this criticism, let's say, to the PSC, to the PSOE, to international socialism in general, when you, day after day, make a call to govern together Spanish. So, if we're so hurt, or if it's political responsibility, we're not going to get it, are we? For what he does to the CUP, obviously thank his contribution, which we have recognized on the topic of ICAM. And lastly, for what he does to Junts for the Yes, say that we've tried to be a young man, let's say, that the government can complete; let's say so, right? Because sometimes we find ourselves, so we make a toast to the sun, right? And in this case we don't want to do it because it's a very important issue, which we think we need to start working and that we want the government, with time or time, to feel, let's say, adapted to this compliment. We simply hope that this will be a new stage, a path that we can begin to build so that accidents at work will not be a scourge that affects a lot of workers every day and we can have a country where we can work, but it will not be a disease or an accident at work. So you're more than that. Thank you, president, thank you to the group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.105.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Call it a vote. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.106.0	Yes; to ask for separate vote from the point a, not the a.1, but the a, only.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.107.0	Point a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.108.0	Point a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.109.0	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.110.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.111.0	Mr. Homrani, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.112.0	Yes; to ask for a separate vote from the point a, it is.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.113.0	Point? The same one they asked for. [[Carmen de Rivera and Pla ask to speak.]] Lady of Rivera?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.114.0	For allusions, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.115.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.116.0	Thank you. Very briefly. It is clear that Mr Chakir has not understood the meaning of my speech, which I would like to emphasize. I mean, the policies that have been made have not been good..., the People's Party and the Socialist Party that is the only thing we have known in democracy, huh? But one thing must be said – one thing must be said –: they have always had the invaluable help of Convergence and Union, both in the 2010 reform and in the 2012 reform. So perhaps it is you who have to consider what you are going to do with labour reform in the future.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.117.0	I think it's clear, Mrs. Rivera. [[Greetings. Look Vehi and Cantenys ask to speak.]] Mrs Vehi...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.118.0	To ask for a separate vote from point 1.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.119.0	1.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.120.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.121.0	A separate vote was requested from the point at and from point 1.c. More, huh? [[Pause.]] I understand that's point b.1.c. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay, so, b.1.c. Those two points, all right, so. We will vote first on the point at, after the point b.1.c and after all the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. It was approved by 61 votes to 11, with 60 abstentions. Next, we will vote on point b.1.c. The vote begins. It was approved by 123 votes to 9, with 9 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was approved by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Procedure for electing five members of the Board of Governors of the Institut Català Internacional per la Pau]] [[284-00021/10]] The next item is the procedure for electing five members of the Board of Governors of the Institut Català Internacional de la Pau. In accordance with Article 7.1 of Law 14/2007 of 5 December 2007 of the Català Internacional per la Pau Institute, as amended by Law 11/2011 of 29 December 2011, the Català de Foment de la Pau Council has proposed two candidates, of which the Parliament does not have to elect five for the renewal of the governing board. I am sure that the parliamentary groups of Junts for the Yes, Ciutadans, Socialist Group and Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed have submitted an election proposal with the following five candidates: Ms. Cécile Barbeito, Mr. Xavier Masllorens, Mr. Vincent Martínez, Mr. Oscar Mateos and Mr. Carme Colomina. It seems that... [[Funnel veils]] - Yeah, okay. I could have voted for it, but the Lord... Congressman Joan Josep Nuet asked us for the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.122.0	Thank you, President. Our parliamentary group will not support the proposal that is being put forward. The reason is very simple: we believe fully in the Institut Català Internacional per la Pau as an indispensable mechanism and give full institutional support to its task and project, but the Parliament of Catalonia should have made a debate around the five people that we will vote on and propose as Parliament. And the parliamentary groups have not spoken, under our point of view. Our parliamentary group has put forward proposals to be able to discuss between us which of these two people were considered, together, more adhering, and this dialogue has not occurred and our proposal has not been taken into account. So, obviously, we will not vote against it, because we give full force to the proposal that we know will be a majority and we will support these five people who join the governing board, but obviously a question of these, as everyone else, must be talked to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.123.0	We shall now proceed to the electronic and secret ballot, in accordance with Rule 99.3 of the Rules of Procedure. I pray to the servants of the chamber to guarantee the secrecy of the vote. [[Widow's remorse.]] The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. The session is suspected up to two-quarters of four. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.124.0	It's part of the session. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into social policies]] [[302-00034/11]] The new item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on social policies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.125.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, before anything else I would like to thank the presence of the representatives of Cocarmi, who have come to this House today, and if today we have managed to reach agreement and make commitments, he has continued his efforts to remind us day by day of the need to make visible the problems and needs of people with disabilities. I want to start by being honest: the reason for making an inquiry with the subsequent motion on this subject is the feeling that many of us have – and I mentioned it in the past plenary – that this government lives on announcements, promises, and, as we do not want those announcements and promises to be lost in time as tears in the rain, it seems to us that it is time for the government to move on to action, because what it is about is that the announcements and promises come to fruition and, as they are, better things as they are, sooner than later. Because there are things that have been going on for a long time. We need to adapt the Catalan standard to the values and mandates of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted by the United Nations in 2006 a decade ago, and there are issues that need to be closed now. And, as we are, I would like to take this opportunity to go further and request the commemoration of the adoption of the UN convention through an institutional declaration in December, when the decade of the convention is over. We understand that this is a way to raise awareness, raise awareness and disseminate the rights of persons with disabilities. It has also been a long time since the urgent constitution of the Codiscat; it was decreed by the former Government in 2014, and the entities of the sector have been waiting for it to be established ever since. Because we do not want empty shells; we want at least if organisms are created, to be equipped with activity. We don't want this to be one more of the ads that end up being broken toys at the bottom of a drawer. Then there are things that have already been repeated so many times that cannot be ignored anymore: the updating of the Social Services Portfolio. In yesterday's report, the heavyweight syndic warns us of the urgent need to assess existing demand and plan services relating to intellectual disability, in order to adequately address all cases. The Accessibility Act is another issue that we do not want to keep in an announcement. We have therefore wanted to recall that there is a deadline set by law itself and we want a firm commitment that that deadline will be respected. Because, of course, it seems that any wit is worth postponing sine die things. There is a draft of the Personal Autonomy and Dependency Bill, and now it is intended to rewind and start from scratch by calling for participation, when the entities themselves are the first to insist on the urgency of the adoption of the law. Let us not make them feel with this theme that they live eternally on the day of the marmot. They have already expressed themselves, they have appeared many times before this Parliament, they have met with the Council... Let us put our batteries and let us stop taking time with this subject. Today we are talking about urgent things, and one of them is to guarantee pocket money. The imposition of an unfettered minimum of resources for persons with disabilities is another urgent issue. These people can't keep waiting, it's a theme that cries out to heaven. A person cannot live with a hundred euros a month and from there pay an ophthalmologist, a dentist, personal hygiene products or transportation. Or, as I was told the other day by a resident of the Mifas Group, the batteries of his wheelchair; it is a question of dignity. And that's why I make my own the concept of dignity money, as Rosa Cadenas, President of Dincat, called it, in her appearance before the Commission of Social Afers. It's about giving a little push so we can get to work. The 100 days of courtesy of the Government have passed, and citizens must not perceive that the Generalitat is installed in inaction, that we do concrete things and things that directly affect people. That is why we want to set a timetable for the raising of the public employment reserve quota for persons with disabilities, which was unanimously adopted at the Social Emergency Plenary; what was adopted at that plenary session cannot be left on wet paper. Finally, but not least, we recall that the deployment of the Catalan Sign Language Act is currently paralysed. We believe that it is necessary to continue this deployment and to provide a budget that will enable the necessary actions to be taken to ensure equal opportunities for these people. The citizens of Catalonia need, especially in the field of social affairs, a Generalitat that is not paralysed, that does not limit itself to making great promises that they have never just arrived. We do not want to get used to your best advice in the near future, we do not want to stay alone with the trailer, we want action, we want the full film, that things happen and that they are good for the citizens. And I would like to end with a few words in the manifesto presented by Cocarmi last December: "No political situation, no historical moment, no partisan confrontation can set aside people in the definition of their actions, and less one of the most vulnerable in society, people with disabilities and their families. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.126.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word of Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.127.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, today we have the opportunity, thanks to this motion, to bring back to this Parliament the situation of the collection of persons with disabilities, a collection that repeatedly brings to this Parliament its petitions to deal with three fundamental things: first, the constant violation of its rights, the economic scan and the lack of public resources that exist on the part of this Government. Catalonia has two years without adapting the laws, principles and mandates of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was approved by the United Nations in 2006. The Cocarmi, tired of waiting – and taking advantage to greet them too – has already done our job and even made a document, has written a document of how this adaptation should be. And from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe that it is already up to us to do so; that it is up to us to do so because we cannot make it clear that the violation of the rights of people with disabilities, who do not see in their legislation reflected this adaptation, is a violation of their rights. But if one thing shows us the government is that one thing is to do the laws and another thing is to complete them, and some examples are also recapitulate into this young man. Five years ago, we've been waiting for a review of the entire Social Service Portfolio, to adapt the professionals' ratios, to adapt it to the new crisis situation, but above all because you said the law: to adapt and to revise the entire Social Service Portfolio. A government that wants to declare independence in fifteen months must be able to review the Social Service Portfolio, it must be able to do so, without tainting itself, without having to open it to debate with the conjunction of all sectors. Two years ago we expect the Catalan Disability Council to be convened, a consultative organ in which the Government of the Generality, the municipalist entities, and also the most representative federations of the sector are represented. You don't understand that you have to put yourself in a seat in this House that the government fixed a date and sent an e-mail; you don't understand. Regarding the Law of Accessibility, warn the Government that it is in time to complete it, as at least until November they have time to make the rule of the Law of Accessibility, and we hope that you do, because respect for accessibility has been brutal. The government's share of the import to promote accessibility and remove architectural barriers has fallen by 70_per_cent in the last five years: from 10_million euros in 2010 to barely..., from 200,000 euros in 2015. This, in the midst of an economic crisis... there have been 80,000 people with more disabilities in the past few years in Catalonia. The young lady also talks about butxaca money. A parliament that has already urged the government to withdraw an unjust co-payment, which leaves, as the Member said, people with disabilities with a little more than a hundred euros in the month of butxaca money. I insist, a compromise that the government will not do or that it seems that it will not do, even if it is approved by Parliament. It is a further example that increases this overdose of what is approved in this Parliament, and we hope that this will be the last time we have to bring this issue to the plenary. Finally, the motion also talks about the need for an effective system to ensure the employment of the ordinary enterprise of persons with disabilities. The indicators that we currently have indicate that the law is not complete and that all and that the competitions are exclusive to the Government of Catalonia in the inspection of work, as we have also seen this morning, this is not door..., the law is not door to term with sufficient guarantees. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this motion, although we would have liked it more concretely in the actions, referring to compliment terms, as we have been able to include in our debate with regard to the maximum of three months to solve the problem of butxaca money. And, in relation to the disability collection, this government doesn't approve. Just go to the territory to see that there are residents of people with disabilities finished, painted, furnished, ready to open, but that they do not open because they do not concert the places; for example, the residence Tegar, of Sant Pere de Ribes, and is not an ailing example, is an example that is unfortunately more common than it seems. We need to move from plans to concrete policies to accompany and guarantee the rights to a collection that lives with its own disability, that is organized, that knows what it wants, that agrees with its claims, with legislation that recognizes its rights, but with a government unable to make them complete. We don't think they deserve it. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.128.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] Next there is the word Ms. Marta Ribas, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.129.0	Thank you, President. To greet first the companies and companies of Cocarmi and Dincat, of the collections that repeatedly denounce, and the last months with much strength, that the collection of persons with disabilities and their families, some 540,000 people, more than having been structurally excluded always, are in a situation of oblivion and exclusion also on the part of the public administrations; that an extended assumption, that a financial scan of the Government of the Generality and a breakdown in the resources of support to the people who need it most are having consequences, are having consequences for the entities and for the services that give attention to the people with disabilities, that they are without the flow. There are consequences in the employment services in the ordinary enterprise, which should be one of the priorities of our society, there are consequences in the special work centres, which cannot absorb the lists of expectations, there are consequences in the services of dependence, there are consequences in the aids, obviously also, of dependence, and there are very hard consequences those that have these services and are to be made a co-payment, or rather a redemption. Consequences hard for your buttocks. They claim to live with dignity, which is what our legal marks – the Constitution and the Statute of Catalonia – do for life with dignity of all the citizens of Catalonia. And, therefore, we complain that we are basically completing our great brands of rights and defence of the rights of all citizens. Claim basic opportunities, such as work opportunities, educational support opportunities, residential space opportunities when needed, dependency benefits opportunities, light space opportunities, space opportunities for political participation, as well; accessibility opportunities for all the rest of the services and spaces to which we access the rest of the city. This young man from Ciutadans raises some of these demands. They've gotten rich, these claims, with some of the items that have been added to the motion. Some of the initial points of the Ciutadans movement have also been lowered, with the incorporation of some Junts for the Yes, especially. But we are grateful to Mrs Naomi on the street who has been talking and has tried to incorporate input from the various groups; in our case, two of the four points that we have presented. However, I wanted to make a special point at some point; it was done a while ago, on the part of the Socialist Group, in the need for things so basic and, unfortunately, so repeated also in this chamber, in the street band, and especially on the part of the entities that are accompanying us today, such as the need to update the portfolio of social services, not updated, not touched since the year 2011. It is impossible that we are adapting to the circumstances of which the portfolio of social services cannot be touched. And we continue to find ourselves with a wall that does not want to touch, does not want to rethink, does not want to update the portfolio of social services to the Government of the Generalitat, for the moment, with the times that we have taken to vote in this Parliament, in the committee or in the plenary of the Parliament. Today, let's see if we change things and change the votes. The need to develop the Law of Accessibility, and here we have incorporated our message because it is with the participation of the sector and people with disabilities. The need to develop a draft law of personal autonomy and dependence, which makes three legislatures that are promised, we hope that this, the third, will be a reality, while incorporating the Junts for the Yes message now remains to be presented to us, this draft, at the end of this legislature. Well, we'll see, we'll keep chasing. And especially wanted to make an impact on the co-payment element. Obviously, we will vote in favour of the points of this motion and we will also vote in favour of this point, in which we speak only of the money of butxaca for people with disabilities who use dependency services and in terms of three_months. But let us not forget that this chamber has already approved that this is to be solved in a global way, that it has approved that it should repeal, change, therefore, the conditions of this order of co-payment, and let us not forget that there are people here who will continue to claim that what it takes is to end co-payment, to treat social rights as rights. And you hear we won't accept that we have to pay for the right to education? Hear we won't accept that we have to pay for certain rights that we have guaranteed with sanitation? So we don't have to accept as a society that we have to be repaying naturally and habitually for the social rights that we also have to answer and we have to give as a society, because you tell us the State, you tell us the Constitution and the laws to which you refer also from this young man. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.130.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr. David Rodríguez, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.131.0	Well, thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, representatives of Cocarmi, allowed my first words from this Faristol to be a record for an exceptional person who felt deep respect for Catalan institutions and so much joy to experience the extraordinary moment of national emancipation that our country saw. I refer to who was the mayor of Solsona, Xavier Jounou i Bajo, a person who had made it clear that politics should be in the service of people. Although he's been leaving us for a few years, I'd like to remember him today. « Seeking to make the world better than you have found it was Baden-Powell's feeling that he had made and that, of course, so many Members and Members of Parliament who have been escorted from this Parliament have often felt a blanket. And I honestly believe that the content of the motion we're going to approve was on this line. Despite the fact that we have suffered and still suffer a few years of economic difficulty that has made a few social improvements, and even a setback, particularly in the collection of people with disabilities, which is what we are dealing with today. I think that too often, in politics – and that must be the mayor's fault – a lot of noise means little work. And today maybe we'll do a little bit of blow and, while I was hoping for a little bit of a speech, but in any case... but I'm sure we'll do a lot of work. It seems to me very positive that, despite starting from such different ideological positions, we are still able to come to terms with these types of issues and we are leaving behind partisan attitudes. I'm sure some of this attitude is easier to bring citizens closer to politics. I would like to thank the Ciutadans Group, and in particular Mrs Naomi de la Calle, for her realistic attitude, but which requires the Government, as the opposition group does, in negotiating the reviews. This is a very demanding young woman, who forces a lot of things. That's why it seems like justice to recognize, too, the government's effort to accept the motion and take it, even though some have already been working, and to show the importance that it gives from this on such a socially sensitive issue. In the first place, and I think it is one of the most important of the industry's claims, the Department of Social Affairs and Families is working to analyse the problem of the names of butxaca money. By means of the shoc plan presented by this Government, it will contemplate a game in the generality's own assumptions for this purpose and intended for persons with disabilities. For what it does to the constitution of the Council of the Disability of Catalonia, the date has already been fixed by part of the department so that it can do so and, therefore, this will be the first of the ten proposals of the motion that we can solve more immediately. The points set out in the motion refer to resolutions adopted in the past Social Emergencies Plenary, for which it deals with the employment of persons with disabilities and the need to increase the employment reserve quota for public administrations. Therefore, I would like to compliment him and, in this sense, the Department of Governance is already working on it. For what it does to the Action Plan for the follow-up of the compliment of the employment reserve quota for persons with disabilities, it means that in the planning of the inspection, and so it has been for this 2016, the campaign for the control of the labour integration of disabled people has been scheduled, for which it makes the proof of the compliment of the reserve quota, among others. For what he does to the service portfolio – and this is another of the delicate points of this movement – the government is committed to setting the timeline. Updating the portfolio of social services implies a very long, fifteen-month process as at least, which can have a high cost. And it seems important to me, therefore, to make it clear that it is present in the timing of the update of this portfolio and to put into value the compromise that is being acquired today. For the purpose of adapting the legislation to the values and mandates of the 2006 United Nations International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, it is to say that the legislation that has been adopted is later adapted to the above-mentioned Convention and the intention is to continue and deepen in this line. For what it does in the deployment of the Accessibility Law, it will only say that it will be a macro-decree with standard code format and that it harmonizes the range of existing standards in accessibility matter. The project is working with as much intensity as possible, but it will be very difficult for it to be published in November 2016, but it is prepared and therefore could be published in the beginnings of the coming year. And for what it does to the project of a new law of personal autonomy and dependence, the Government already contemplates the realization of a participatory process on this question that must be used as a guide to draft the draft law. And finally, for what it does to the Law 17/2010, of the Catalan sign language, we hope to be able to congratulate as soon as possible of its deployment. I sincerely believe that today, with the approval of this young man, we are contributing to the improvement of the quality of life of an important part of our society and we are approaching a little more to the ideal of the slogan of which he was speaking to the principle, and to which I have expressly referred, since this past week the account was initiated, therefore, of the Jamborinada that will be the year coming to Tarrega. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.132.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has his words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.133.0	Thank you, President. We present an episode more of the flirtation, the flirtation between the Ciutadans Group and the government that has the place of the Benestar Commission. And welcome be it – and welcome be it –, ladies and gentlemen, if it is to approve and to put on the table important issues for citizens, issues that the sector demands, important issues that have so far passed a little unnoticed in this legislature and that have a major importance for the lives of many people in Catalonia. It is a motion on policies of attention, promotion, equal rights of persons with disabilities; or, in other words, policies of empowerment and full citizenship of persons with functional diversity. And here I use the term 'functional diversity', which, suddenly, has been used a little so far, because that's it. It's very illuminating when one, for example, asks, doesn't it? When we are visited by people from the sector, from special businesses, from special work centres, and you ask them, why do you have the doubt, why don't you know it, the questions: « And why did you accept and why did you gamble for this model of business? Why did you apostate for people with functional diversity as a function of your business model? And then they give you different answers, and they say, "Well, then, for a social reason... But to me the one who has always called my attention is that a few times they have explained to us: "So, because these people do better their work and they have more ability to do this job than we ask of the people who, in other words, are sometimes considered more gifted. I remember that some time he explained to us, for example, and maybe I'm wrong, and the sector will forgive me if I do, but sometimes someone who can have some, well, some disability, so, then, for example, for the control of processes is very adjunct, is especially uncertain and especially prepared, more than a person who is, therefore, usually not. And therefore, I am glad that we have this young man today. And we're talking about a sector, so, which has very different profiles, from those people who can have a very deep disability – I remember this time I visited a residence of people with a very deep disability, and really man is impacted and you see the need to change, for example, the barems, right? , in these residencies, and the communities, because they have a load of work that is often difficult to accomplish – up to those people with a degree of disability who have a practically normal life, and what we want, precisely, is that they have it totally normal, completely normal. And this is the reason for collecting various requests from the sector and, therefore, it should please Ciutadans that he has raised it. In the first place, I regret that this point, a law of rights, non-discrimination, has fallen, including people with functional diversity. It is true that the objectives of this can be met from various angles, but it was a complaint that had been made to us. For another band, also the update of the service portfolio – the companies that have spoken before have said so. We have it completely expired and it is precisely time to reformulate it and, moreover, that it is a occasion because, with the sector and with all the people who know, we are thinking that it has not worked, that it can improve, what services and what services can be given better. The Ciutadans Group is also proposing something that Together for the Yes has long been "cracking, but it has not done, that it is the law of personal autonomy and Catalan dependence. Until now there have been words, words, words; I said, it seems to me that I was, the deputy of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. Words of victimism before Madrid, words of excuse before the own responsibilities, empty words of promises in the area and today – today – there is a motion and a point that says that this law will be approved before the end of the legislature. And I, perhaps you have more information than I will, counsel, but as things have been pointed out to 2019. Therefore, I think it would have been better to squeeze a little more, and glue more the government so that we could have it among this year you see, as it was in the original motion. Finally, there are job placement points, and it is appropriate, that, because equality, the recognition of dignity and the insertion of people with functional diversity passes, in the first place, through their full incorporation into the world of work; to the world of work in the public sector and also through obligation and dialogue with the private world, so that our economy remains fully inclusive. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.134.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word "Mrs. Pilar Castillejo", of the Parliamentary Group Candidate for Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.135.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we think that it is a young woman who deals with many points, that after the transactions that have taken place, therefore, she has improved, because we have managed to reach agreement at all points. We therefore appreciate the work done by the Member who presented it, by Naomi de la Calle, as well as by the rest of the groups, for the contributions that they have made, and we see that in the end, therefore, it has been quite comprehensive and allows us all to support this young man, who, as we say, addresses this issue from various points. On the one hand, from the normative and legislative point of view, we have agreed that we will progressively incorporate all existing legislation into this agreement of the United Nations, from rights to persons with disabilities. Moreover, we have also been able to talk about participation, the participation of entities and all sectors involved, to draft both the rules of the Accessibility Law and the Personal Independence and Dependency Law Project. We think it's important to count on the third sector to pull this forward, with entities that know more about the subject, and it's from their participation that you'll get more out of it with what we need. It also contemplates, this motion, urgent measures that run fast that continue to be implemented. They have already warned us, they have already announced to us that we have date for the constitution of the Codiscat, the Council of the Disability; we celebrate this date, and we hope that you start working and throwing away your tasks. The same way he talks about very concrete terms for the theme of this butxaca money for people with functional diversity and dependence. We've talked to all groups about the need to update the Social Service Portfolio, the time it hasn't updated. We think it's good that with this young man we also approve of the update, the timing of this update from the Social Service Portfolio, that we also need to put it up to date on all these issues. And, lastly, it also addresses, this motion, measures of the work environment to give compliments to resolutions of the Social Emergencies Plenary, such as the progressive increase of the labour reserve quota for persons with functional diversity to the Public Administration; enable the necessary mechanisms to monitor the compliment of this progressive increase in the quota, and develop the Pla for employment insertion. It is all these measures that are more than necessary to put all these measures in place in the field of work. Finally, we have a point about the deployment of the Catalan sign language Law 17/2010. We think it's very important that we put this law into practice. Both this law and the UN International Convention for Persons with Disabilities contemplate and employ the right of families of deaf students to a quality education that also encloses the Catalan sign language. We believe that we have a long way to go, because at these times we are very hard on this subject; we are not getting the first attention we should have in this sense, and we believe that this attention to the deaf child with the Catalan sign language is important, that families are informed from the first moment of the sign language and the development of the child's cognitive language because we believe that bilingual education is necessary for all deaf infants in these training stages. We celebrate, therefore, the approval of this young man, who has gathered these points, and we appreciate the presence, too, of the entities that have come to accompany us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.136.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then there's the word "Mrs. Naomi of the Street."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.137.0	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the political forces for their contributions and for their willingness to reach agreements. I will explain our position on the amendments. With regard to point 1, we accepted the amendment by Junts pel Si, which was very similar to that of the Socialist Party. Since we believe that the important thing is that the Catalan standard should finally be adapted to the UN convention, we have accepted the option of progressively adapting the one which was another of the options envisaged by Cocarmi. However, it is said that if, after a few months, we do not see any progress in this adaptation, the parliamentary group I represent will take up the other proposal that Cocarmi had, which we liked best, and we will present a proposal for a law that affects the norm across the board. I would like to remind you again that Cocarmi has made a report of almost four hundred pages on how to adapt our regulations, whether standard to standard or, in our opinion, easier, with a law that affects it transversally. In any case, Cocarmi has done our job. There are no excuses for further delaying this issue for another ten years. From the PSC we negotiated the amendment on pocket money because it collected the will of this motion, which was nothing other than to enter into commitments, and we therefore considered that three months were more than enough to resolve a question of dignity. In this regard, I would like to acknowledge that the negotiation with Junts pel Yes has been arduous but fruitful, as we have reached a commitment of three months to ensure an unfettered minimum of the resources of people with dependent disabilities. If there's one thing I'm really satisfied with, it's that I've made a commitment to the law of personal autonomy. Negotiation has been tough, but we have managed to reach an agreement that a bill should be introduced before the end of the legislature. Now, I do not forget the fabulous pre-project of llei that was also spoken of by Constellera Neus Munté, which I will continue to look for. We have accepted the Catalonian amendment Yes, it is Pot, which asks to ensure the participation of the entities in the development of accessibility, and we have not accepted that of Junts pel Yes, because, if the collet« according to budgetary availability seems to me very heavy, the de« so aviat com sigui posible seems to me death metal. [[Rialles.]] So, we have also negotiated the amendment of the addition relating to the Plan for the Employment of Persons with Disabilities, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, in line with the proposal adopted at the Social Emergency Plenary on a plan to promote the employability of persons with disabilities both in the ordinary enterprise and in the administration or special employment centres, since in Citizens we firmly believe that access to decent, stable and quality work is one of the most important factors for the social inclusion of persons with disabilities. We have not accepted Catalonia's Amendment No 3 Yes, it is Pot, because we understand that what is requested was already reflected in the request to update the Social Services Portfolio. In my previous speech, I have commented that services must be updated in order to adequately address all cases; and, indeed, recognizing cerebral paralysis and multidisability is necessary to offer a portfolio adapted to people's needs, but we have not included the amendment because we did not want to refer only to a part, as we believe that there are many areas that need revision and adaptation. In any case, we will defend this recognition and ensure that it is so. I don't think I've left any. Thank you all for your willingness and willingness, Marta Ribas, Raúl Moreno and, in particular, David Rodriguez. And I wanted to tell Fernando Sánchez that we may be flirting with Junts pel on social issues Yes, because on these issues we are willing to flirt with anyone, even with you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.138.0	It's run out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.139.0	...and even make orgies among all, if it is on topics for the benefit of citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.140.0	Mrs. Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.141.0	Instead, you've been flirting a lot...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.142.0	...has run out of time, Congresswoman!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.143.0	...with Convergence to make cuts. In this case, I'm sorry, but don't count on us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.144.0	He's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.145.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.146.0	We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Mr. Sanchez, do you ask me for the word? [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.147.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.148.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.149.0	Yes, Madam President. I remember when Mr. Cañas trolled from the rostrum against the Convergence Government, and now they have passed to these melodious songs of conquest. Who saw them and who saw them. [[Some applause. Naomi from Sifré Street asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.150.0	My honourable Member, why ask me the word? [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.151.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.152.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.153.0	Well, as I told you, you agreed with Convergence to cut; us to get social progress. Anyway, you guys were sitting here before... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.154.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.155.0	...now it's us. Who has seen them and who sees them! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.156.0	Quiet. [[Pause.]] In that case, you haven't... [[strong remorse of the eyes]] – Please, be quiet; let's go and vote – no separate vote has been asked. Therefore, we shall vote for the whole House. Okay? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. It was adopted by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into security policies]] [[302-00031/11]] The twenty-first point of the order of the day is: Motion following the question to the Government on security policies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. To expose it has the word Mr. Joan Josep Nuet. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, I'm in a hurry and I'm quiet. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.157.0	Thank you, President. Still making a joke with my group companion, the company Joan Coscubiela, about whether it was a mere coincidence that today we are presenting a motion on the Board of Security of Catalonia the Councillor of Interior – that they see that he is not here because he is returning with AVE or with air bridge, I don't know – the Councillor of Interior of the Generality of Catalonia and the Minister of Interior of the Government of Spain have granted to his meeting in Madrid that the Board of Security must meet and that he has granted that the Board of Security of Catalonia will meet after June 26, without a fixed date, but with a firm compromise, it seems, of the meeting. So, I was giving Congressman Coscubala that yes, maybe it's a coincidence, or not. The important thing is that this morning we didn't know about the Ministry of the Interior's Twitter, which said that the Ministry and the Department of the Interior "agree to convene the Security Board after 26-J. And in case there were any doubts, then we saw the Interior Department of the Government of Catalonia tweeting that Jordi Jané said that "we have granted that the Security Board of Catalonia is meeting after the elections. The first thing we have to say is that we are glad; we are glad that the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generality have agreed that the political picks have been placed on one side and that the essential collaboration of the security professionals has been imposed, that the Security Board is meeting and that police coordination is a reality. So, obviously, this young man is necessary. It's necessary because you don't say anything other than what we talked to at the time with the councilman and we ask the parliamentary groups to give him support. First, to convene urgently, in the proper months, in order to hold the meeting in the current year – it seems that this will be the case – the Security Board of Catalonia, with an order of the day previously granted to the Government of the State, because it must be operational to make agreements – for this reason the Security Board is meeting – with the objective of coordinating security policies, coordinating the activity of police units in Catalonia with the State's security units and forces, coordinating also the need for information in the international sphere and in the relations of collaboration and assistance with the police authorities of other countries, and jointly evaluating the full deployment of the Missions in the context of the territory of Catalonia. The Government considers that the debt that the Government of the State would have to assume, the result of the National Police and the Civil Guard's relegation, and the deployment of the Mosso d'Esquadra, is an important amount: 264_million euros. Therefore, it is something that should be talked about and that should obviously be agreed. And, obviously, this means that the Generality's premise will have to assume parties that concretely state that the Squadron Mosses are to increase their staff, that the material that the Mosses are to serve is to be improved and expanded, and that debate will be held when the assumption arrives. But it's important to know that this Security Board also says that the state government will have to make economic transfers for these services. I want to thank all parliamentary groups for the dialogue and debate we have made. To the City Group, which has presented a theme that we have been able to talk about and that we have been able to deal with, and the positive dialog that we have been able to achieve with all the groups. Therefore, welcome to the Security Board; today we know that it will already be a reality. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.158.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Jean Castel, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.159.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillors, Members, Members, well, this young man, who today speaks and debate in this plenary, was already on the line that Ciutadans defended in the first appearance of the Councillor d'Interior in the first Committee d'Interior of this legislature. And it was on the line to demand as much need as urgency; the urgency that this Security Board should call for as soon as possible. Also, our deputy Matías Alonso introduced a young man where he was speaking, also on this line, about need and urgency, right? But I want to remember, too, why we understand that it has not been celebrated – it has been mentioned here – since 2009. Such an important and substantive issue, since the year 2009 had not been convened. And we must also manifest the lack of communication between the Government of Catalonia and the Government of Spain. This lack of communication that has caused different frictions, also in time, and to which... – that's what happened, isn't it? –, and at this last time it seems that we are doing better, with this communication. And today, as the Member said, this finding occurred, where it came to an agreement that after the elections, it seems that once and for all, we will see this Security Board. But, I want to call a little on the lack of communication that's gone, why? Because it also has bad consequences. Consequences such as being able to analyze real needs, problems, needs..., all that has to come from a dialog flowed between an autonomous community and the Government of Spain. You're worried about the phone that I also want to say that being able to be a consequence that, for these reasons, it didn't happen this meeting that asked the young lady, didn't it? And that for us, it's fundamental. And the papers, that in the first instance we were going to present and that I want to thank, too, right? , that they have continued transactions with a new writing, were for, in a way, to be able to give security and guarantee the hope of this young man, that it was such a simple thing that it is produced to shield the times, not only of the summons, but that it is produced this meeting. And it seems that, as Deputy Nuet said, it may be that through this young man someone has moved more quickly and has typified a time, right? Well, when it comes to the information exchange in the international sphere, in the international sphere of collaboration and assistance with different police authorities, it is clear that it is necessary that this Security Board also treats as and how we manage this information. And it is obvious that between the mark, always, of the statutory and constitutional competitions, obviously – obviously. In the same way, let me also assess jointly when it comes to the subject of the presuppost, right? More agents, more resources; a presupposition that includes not only the parties for the maintenance of our effect, but a treat than for us, from Ciutadans, it is fundamental, that it is the maintenance, the adequacy..., today that it speaks so much, isn't it? We've all seen the issue of cartridges, which has passed a few days ago; anti-ball armor, which is also another complaint, and they're materials donated with a lifetime. Well, I wouldn't want to talk like yogurt, but they have an expiration date. And this expiry date does mean that the maintenance, the adequacy, the renewal of all these assets and the material used by our agents..., I would like to point out that they are guarantees, guarantees for our agents to develop and carry their pocket to term with the maximum possible guarantee. And it's a waste that this institution also ages to give guarantees to our squadron moss agents. Look – and I could give you a lot of examples – we could talk, as I said, about the armor; about the cartridges; about the costumes; about the vehicles, how and how we have them; well, and all those adaptations... Lately we talked about it when we talked about adapting the long gun and incorporating the long gun, it was also about how we should incorporate it among the vehicles, with its subjection, right, and this will also involve a presuppositional game. But, well, prioritizing, too, training – and let's note a lot of training –; the training of our agents also optimizes the resources that go into the field of security. And, lastly, I want to thank the dialog that we have opened with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, that has allowed us to do these transactions, and transactions that have brought this young man here with a writing that we understand has been armored. Look, many times we talk about what, how and how...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.160.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.161.0	I'm done with the president. But today we're worried and we're busy when. And when the essence of this young man was. Obviously, we will vote in favour of this young man, as it could not be in any other way. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.162.0	Thank you very much. Next, the words of Mr Carles Castillo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.163.0	Good afternoon to everyone. Well, I was going to say with all the love and all the courtesy that a certain man already saw with this young man, right? I believe that we have reproduced, another time, the debate and the proposal that is convened, which is called the Security Board of Catalonia. We've come in for different lives, I think we're pretty cool with it. And I, above all, thought that we should move from power to act, from words to facts, which is what this mean seems to have happened. I think it's very well debated, talking about security, flirting with security – it's important – but a little too that pointed out the other day the UPC, I think it doesn't need to debate and talk three, four times about convening the Security Board, which is about convening the Security Board, which, fortunately, is what has already happened. We, of course, agree that the meeting is called. It has been seven years since it was convened, and I would therefore like to state that responsibility lies with one government and the other; both the Government of Spain and the Government of Catalonia. It's been seven years since the Catalan Security Board was convened, with a scene so changing and with a scene as important as we have from the table; it's been seven years since this meeting to coordinate the police, to ensure the information compartment and, of course, to provide the professionals with the material and human resources they need. And we are absolutely in agreement, naturally. Just end by pointing out that the freeze between the two governments, between the Government of Catalonia and the Government of Spain, is very good, the fact is that it has not been done before and with very important fears either; but, well, I think you are already in the campaign, don't you? I believe that both governments like others – in the background, they already have us accustomed to them – seem to be continuously and then walking, on important issues or on immature themes, as they are now in pre-campaign, so they agree to help each other. I think it's time to call this Security Board, put it down a date, I think that's what happened, and so they're going to hold us back to the police station. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.164.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Alberto Villagrasa, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.165.0	President. MPs, I... the truth is, I thought they were going to withdraw this motion. Given the outcome of the negotiations this afternoon, it is clear that this motion is therefore out of time, and does not fit. But if you want us to vote for something that's going to be done, we will. And it is clear that you too wanted to set up here or to table an electoral debate two months after a general election, but thanks to the Minister and the Home Secretary because that is not going to happen here. What we have to think about is why the Catalan Security Board has not met since 2009. Probably because there was a government of the Generalitat that was thinking more about making proposals on the agenda thinking about supposed sovereignty or wearing down the Spanish government on duty, rather than on issues of police coordination. Surely that was the cause, and not because the PP ruled, because from 2009 to 2011 the socialists ruled. And that is certainly why the Catalan Security Board has not met. When there is a will for agreement and consensus is sought, it means that consensus is to give way between two parties. When one of the parties wants to impose the agenda and not consensus, what happens? That an attempt is being made to make a pulse to the Government of Spain, there is no agenda and there is no meeting. And this is what happened to this day. This morning it has been shown that the will for dialogue is imposed, and the Minister of the Interior, together with the highest officials of the Interior, and the Councillor of the Interior, with their highest officials of the Council, have met and dealt with issues that we have raised here and that were important, and that we were concerned about. And it is shown that in the end there was no need for a safety board to work or coordinate itself, because coordination already exists. What was needed was a willingness to work and talk. And these have been very important issues, which are coordination and collaboration among police forces. The coordination of the police forces in the field of organized crime, which increasingly has more international ramifications, and the coordination against the fight against jihadist terrorism, which is the most imminent danger we have, not in Spain, but throughout Europe, and also in those countries of Muslim origin and tradition, which is where this kind of terrorism has caused the most deaths. Obviously, these coordinates, from this meeting – there is no election campaign, Mr Castillo – have even come out to agreements, very important agreements. This morning's meeting leaves not only to meet after the elections and to meet the Catalan Security Board, but it is also agreed to permanently incorporate the Mossos d'Esquadra into the terrorist threat assessment table, which were not there. In addition, an agreement will be signed for the Mossos d'Esquadra to have access to the CITCO database, i.e. the Centre for Counter-Terrorism Intelligence and Organized Crime. And those agreements are going to be signed from here a few weeks, not in an election campaign. I will go finalizing, recognizing and congratulating the Minister of the Interior and the Councillor of the Interior, who have shown the common sense enough not to mix the debate of the electoral campaign with what is such an important meeting that it talks about security and prevention. And I'm left with four ideas from that meeting and the security debate. One: maximum respect for all security bodies; everyone. Consensus in the debate on the fight against terrorism, and especially against jihadist terrorism. Three: giving society and public opinion a strong message on security issues against terrorism and organized crime. And four – which sometimes happens on the part of some parties –: do not confuse public opinion with messages, making it believe that coordination does not exist, because this, although the Catalan Security Board does not meet, has been given and gives good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.166.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.167.0	Thank you, President. This morning the deputy Nuet deia, from this rostrum, in relation to the movement of refugees, that we have to go to the scene of the conflict, right? So I can make the right decision. I think it's strange that in some cases we have to go to the conflict scene and not in others. And in this sense, I have to say, and I said it fifteen days ago, that I'm surprised that when we talk about security, we don't go looking for who is the cause, precisely, who is the plot, of the conflict. Security speech is not politically neutral. We know you always have an ideological look, you have a political look behind you. And I must say, therefore, in this sense, that we were surprised by the wording of the motion of the companion Nuet, who abandoned the traditional idea to the left, that it is always the one to seek the explanation of things, and, therefore, when a proposal solutions, to put solutions on the table according to the causes that he wants to fight beyond the police exit, that is the only thing that this young man poses on the table. Talking about security and focusing on the police, and not talking about inequality, not talking about injustice, not talking about wars, not talking about imperialism, not talking about capitalism, in short, it's an option that strangely comes from who you see. But, as this young man sees precisely the company Nuet, and we share in principle the ideological view with the political formation that it represents, I know, so maybe we will abstain, in this vote, in a gesture of companionship and support between the alternative left-wing forces of this Parliament. In fact, in an article that today makes Jaume Asens in the Ara Diari, the third mayor of the Barcelona Assembly proposed that there must be a strong alliance of the alternative lefts of this country in the mark of the construction of a national process. Jaume Asens clearly proposed that Podemos, the CUP, Esquerra, in this process of recovery of sovereignty in which we find ourselves, have more alliances. And we, therefore, why not, in this present motion we want to take a step forward in this alliance, to make it clear, and it is hard for me to know why the Members who have repeatedly made it in today's plenary, who are not in a process of a fantasy country – we are not in a process of a fantasy country, are not in a process of a fantasy country. It is a process of hope, it is a process of struggle, it is a process of enlightenment, of basing a republic on the service of the good people of this country, that the day we hold it will allow us not to go to Madrid to coordinate with ministers of Opus Dei, but that sovereignty will be ours, and with this sovereignty we will guarantee security and guarantee everything that we want to build in the republic that we have at hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.168.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Ms. Montserrat Fornells, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.169.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Counselor and Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, very late everyone. We are here to debate a motion presented for the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot on security policies. From this hemisphere, as has been said, in this legislature we have already discussed motions similar to this question. The only point of the motion submitted calls for urgent convening of the Security Board of Catalonia with a pre-arranged agenda, and points to the different issues that should be dealt with at this Security Board when this is due to end. The Councillor d'Interior, who has since been a member of the Government, has reiterated on various occasions that it was necessary and opportune..., the need to convene the Board of Security of Catalonia, with the aim of enhancing those instruments and organizations that allow for intensified collaboration between the various competent administrations, especially at times like the present, where security aspects have an influence grow in the context of the city after the different Gihadist attacks that have occurred in Europe. Nevertheless, because this can be called, as there is agreement between the parties, both in the order of the day and in the contents and agreements of this, before this is due to end. As the Councillor explained in the debate on the question that led to the conclusion of this motion, last February he sent a letter to the Minister with the Government's intention to bring together the Catalan Security Council as soon as possible, since, as has already been said, it was not held since 2009, agreeing on its agenda and its contents. As a result of this dilated period without ordinary meetings, today we have not yet been able to certify the number of effects of the Squadron's Cos de Mossos that was deployed in the period 2010-2013, and this causes an accumulated debt of state financing in this period and succession, as Mr Nuet has already explained. With this money, with this funding, you could cover the name of the bodies..., of necessary effects that fall. You could also change the material that the squadron movements require. Also, last March, after the Brussels storms, the councillor again asked the minister..., the petition for an urgent summons to meet, to prepare, among other things, the agenda of the Security Board. This meeting is what the Councilman and the Minister had this morning. Last week, at the meeting of Vice President Junqueras with the Vice President in office of the Government of the State, there was also a need to convene the Security Board on the table, because after more than seven years it has not yet met. And it's a little responsible argument for the excuse the Spanish government put in not to schedule it because it was working. The security of the citizens does not understand governments in function. Security can't work. And, as you well know, for what reason the Government of the State is not functioning, because it does not stop bringing the laws and decrees of this Parliament and the Government of Catalonia to the Constitutional Court. Councilman Jané met with Minister Fernández this morning, and with willing agreement and dialogue, and this... went well and was positive. The content of the agreements was also explained, because it was agreed to convene the Security Board after the June 26 elections. The CITCO, the Centre d'Intel·ligência contre le Terrorisme et le Crim Organizat, as well as permanent members, has also been granted the income of the Mossos d'Esquadra. They have also decided that a deal will be signed because the Squad Mossos are becoming members of the risk assessment and counter-terrorism coordination table, as already stated in Article 164 of the Statute of Autonomy; certainly, the article is not detailed. The Mossos have also been granted access to police databases. And, as not, it has been granted to improve police cooperation in order to guarantee the security, and therefore the freedom, of the citizens of Catalonia. For all that has been said, the Group of Joints for the Yes will vote in favour of this motion, with the papers and transactions presented and agreed, explained in this Chamber. Many thanks and very late everyone. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.170.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Mr Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.171.0	Thank you, President. Well, in the first place, thank all the spokespersons, in the first place to the spokesman who said they voted favorably for the motion, their contributions. It's true: maybe tomorrow this young man shouldn't be introduced. But when we introduced it it was still necessary, because there was still no meeting between the ministry and the council, and less agreement. Today we see it. Therefore, the young lady has done her job. If you want, your little work, but your work. Therefore, thank the contribution in this sense. Of course, we welcome the agreements. Police coordination is a concept that is never left, we think it's good to develop. And, therefore, this is a positive aspect. To the company Salellas : everyone in my group knows that here, in the calaix of the table, there is the Communist Manifest. [[Widow's remorse.]] But everyone who knows me knows I like to touch from little to little. And in the new country we want, and possibly you and I want, public security policies will always have a space. Clearly, we must not talk too much about public security policies. But maybe we start, don't be that we have a new country and don't know what to do with our security. But anyway, thank the words, and he knows, you know, I take them well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.172.0	Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] Please, take the seats, 'cause we're voting. The vote begins. It was adopted by 115 votes to 9, with 9 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the reorganization of hospital resources including the Siscat]] [[302-00033/11]] The twenty-one point of the order of the day is the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the reorganization of hospital resources included in the Siscat, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word the lady assumes escarp. They're asked if you'd like them to come out quickly and quietly. [[Pause.]] Please, if you're gonna come out, you're gonna freak out, let's wait to get started. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.173.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, all of you. This young man, who follows the inquiry of the previous plenary, in fact arises from the debate..., or from the very words of the Councillor of Salut. Councillor Comín announced last month that he would leave out of the Siscat, the comprehensive system, and above all in the hospital area, the private centres with a desire to work. On the basis of this premise, the Socialist Group put forward an inquiry, and the motion also went on this line. I mean, we shared the advisor's words, his political will, and we thought it was important..., which he represented to strengthen the public health system and to put an end to those derivations that had occurred indiscriminately in his time. Therefore, the motion intended to propose that we adapt the current legislation to the same decree, a decree which is from 2010 and which defines three sections: the hospital network, to hear us; the network of social and mental health centres, and the network of the health transport service. And at the length of the years the decree has suffered various variations... many and many. Therefore, this manifestation of the political will, which we have shared and which also forms part of the Pla de scoc, of the measure number 21 of the Pla de scoc which you have presented..., consists, as I said, of getting hospitals out of the system with a desire to work. It's either when the contracts are over or at the end of the month. But obviously, we told him that we agree with this, but that you do so with all kinds of planning and, above all, transparency, that we do not constantly find ourselves with measures of some kind contradictory, since there were idle beds, beds that had to work, as I said, before the details, or that in some way it was said that it was in space, that then it was denied, in his hospital, or that in principle it was all hospitals and at the end it was less. Therefore, as I said, in the first place, review of the decree; in the second place, therefore, do it with planning. The decree, which at its time and at the time of birth provided for the existence of private centres, provided for them in cases of punctuality and necessity and, therefore, in a complementary manner. The fact is that from 2011 to 2015, this complementary way has been converted in a way, we would say, much more routine, and, therefore, we retaliated beds of water to the public, we doubled the derivatives to the private. At this point I must say that we will not accept the message that Juntes has presented for the Yes. We believe that the original of the motion which presents much more of the hope and the words that the councillor said, that it does not appear to be more the result of an internal agreement between Junts for the Yes than an attempt to improve or to pull forward the political intentions expressed at the appearance, and also in the answer to this Member. As I said, short and short or short and short, we must come: review of the decree, analysis of needs and provision of sufficient resources, which is what all centers claim to do the ordinary activity and, moreover, also the additional. In this sense, and also for what it does to the last two networks that remain, above all what is the network of mental health and socio-health, what we ask is an important exercise of transparency: to know – and this also was one of the lines that the counselor said in his appearance in the month of February – what we want to know is exactly which are, what are the terms, which are the types of contests they have, which is the title... We are not laying down much less, as someone has meant, than in the mental and socio-health field, which is not a beast. We are very aware of what there is, and in this sense we believe that there is a complexity and diversity of providers who make a magnificent pocket of community work. As I said, as much here as in primary attention..., we also attended the exams, that I think they improve and much the text, of Catalonia Yes it is Pot and of the UPC, where I think I say an apology, because in a quick way we have been posing Anglo-Saxons that, fortunately, Congresswoman Reguant has had the right chance to correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.174.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next is the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.175.0	Good afternoon. Thank you very much. I don't think I'm gonna run out of five minutes today. We will give support to this young man, they understand that for us, too, it is short. For us to set up a public service with the possibility that in some aspects it has nothing to do with it is an aberration, in a certain way, or a violation of rights. That is to say, we understand that a public service is public and must be at the bottom of everyone, and work or be based on the possibility that someone benefits or benefits from a basic right should not be allowed in the areas: in salvation, in education, in many others. I mean, we're gonna have to do a review here. Despite this, let's start making clear, putting order, and, therefore, it's positive. Now, we are surprised or congratulated by the Socialist Party which is planning to revise a decree of 14 December 2010, because, as I recalled, on 14 December 2010, the Health Council was in the hands of the PSC; therefore, you yourselves wrote this. It's okay that, practically six years later, we rectify. It's always a good thing you're stuck with mistakes. Beyond that, we've done a few reviews. Every time we use words in English, and we understand that, if it's obvious that all of us understand profit and no profit, when we have words in Catalan, then we can use them; moreover, the counselor knows that when he always says correctness. So I'd better put it that way. And after a brief detail when we speak, in point 2, of making it clear to speak of public centers, to further clarify this idea that we raise: that in the Català Health Service and in the Siscat it should be public centers, and not those that, even though they have no desire for work, are private centers. It happens that we don't approach it here, but in the background..., we can approach it further, but it is obvious that there are foundations without any work that are now managing part of the Catalan public health service. Yes, they're no longer working, the foundations that strictly operate those hospitals, but all that's around them are foundations that are also home to companies, other entities with no longer working. So, more than you run that hospital directly, you don't have a lot of work to do, which involves you and the people you love, they're a lot of work to do. So he's still feeling the perversion. But, well, today we start, today we clarify, and from here we go building. Therefore, we will give support to all the motion submitted for the Socialist Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.176.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The words of Mr. Jorge Soler, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.177.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. For Ciutadans, salvation is a priority. We understand salvation by always looking at it with two exceptionally indissoluble nuclei: they are patients and professionals. And whatever motion or treatment and improvement we can make to the health system, we are looking at it with four extraordinarily powerful axes: sustainability, transparency, fairness and quality. Sanitary subjects should be treated healthily and not politically tactically, as we believe today, therefore, and other times is being done. If we're talking about the Catalan model, it's a complex model, with many dimensions and particularities. And the case is that in the treatment of what we're talking about today there are investor decisions, some signatures for the Generality until 2021, because that's what you promised, and, more importantly, previous governments that bet on the same model. For example, the General Hospital, now with 1,146 workers, with a contract that came from 2001–sixteenth legislature, with Convergence in the lead– and that for two years it was working also saw President Maragall and President Montilla pass, and curiously in 2011 it was renewed for two more years and, therefore, until 2021. My question: do we not respect the contracts, therefore, that you sign? There is no legal certainty, therefore, for the people in whom you have the confidence to give health services? Because, I remember, the annual renewal that this contract has is a technical aspect because that's why you, too, decided. Therefore, in our opinion, if we want to talk about the health system we need a much deeper debate than we can do here. Out here we have the workers of the Vallès Clinic, 233 workers; some are out. This contract, which ends exactly in August 2016, has been renewed for six years. Yes, also with the Montilla government in the front, with Councilwoman Geli and some deputy I know that there was, therefore, a lot of affinity and proximity. Well, from the start, these workers, right now, there's not a hundred of us who have a threat of accompaniment. We have outside, Mr. Counselor, a nurse – "out, I mean to the hall of the outside, great..., I forgive, to the hall of groups –, we have a nurse who asks me, twenty minutes ago: I don't know if she will contract, Mr. Counselor, to give food to her child, or if she will leave, as so many nurses that our system has not protected and sent them to London; outside I can answer her, that she will be waiting for us, advising. And so with the Sacred Heart, where, well, the Clinic I think has already made us change the great headlines, huh? First the headlines come out in a way, yesterday I felt the headlines slipping away. Are you sure this activity will do to the public without resentment of patients and workers? Well, with headlines, no. Some, clearly – and you know it perfectly – we bet on the public health system. I think our trajectory is obvious and it supports us. If anyone wants to go to the Catalan history to deprivatize, I think they still have a lot more work to do than what is obviously being done here today. Let us not forget mental salvation and let us not forget the great number of contracts that exist with the socio-sanitary. Together, they represent more than 60_per_cent than we're not talking about today. So, if they want to donate, well, these changes, I think they have to work and make great efforts. They did not accept our statement today, which was in favour of the same Catalan Health Order. It is curious that when we make a conciliatory, respectful, inclusive and, more importantly, realistic proposal with the real Catalan situation, well, it is not acceptable and prefers to conjugate verbs that I think are far removed from our intentions. Finally, at point 1.1, we can't give it up, just for this reason. It is written textually: "providers with annihilation. Well, I don't know exactly, if they don't want it, so expand, basically because I remember them also providing gloves, gossip, eating... well, you serve, a lot of them, so, they also have a lot of work, and I think it's legal, because they're the ones that give us provision and serve the public system. Therefore, it is full of political contradictions and risks good health functioning. We have a serious debate, I demand it, and, therefore, to end, Madam President, voting on this motion as you plant it means leaving thousands of patients and health workers without coverage. And we will vote, therefore, "not to this number 1, for the wording, which must be, in my opinion, much more accurate and precise and professional, and in this case I think we have not been up. People's salvation is a basic and irrefutable pillar to ensure a fairer and more united society. President of Parliament, I propose to work to benefit the health interests of Catalans and not the electoral interests that clearly show some today. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.178.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next is the words of Mr. Albano Dante, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.179.0	Thank you, President, for giving me the word in one day a little history for Catalan public health. And he says a little historical because, to begin with, we have a Health Adviser, appointed by a President of Convergence, who tells us and talks about depriving us. To continue, we have a Socialist Party that wants to make this disprivatization announced by the councilor to be effective; and this is also historic because, as Reguant said, perhaps this means that we are starting to put this health socio-governance back together, which for thirty years has done so much harm to the public health system. And, finally, these two things may explain the nervousness that exists in certain sectors before the Socialist Party's motion. I'm in part. Counselor, you know that we have differences in how we think it must be a public health system, but anyone who defends a public health system must recognize this gesture that he has done, that the white tide sums up very well when he says: "Public money, to public health. It's simple, but deep. But we also have to tell him to go more there, and you know it, to go more beyond gestures. Three essential things. You and the media talking about deprivatization, but we also need to talk about demerchantization, because sometimes we see, in many places, a ford model, a model of going to work for stocks, a model where there are payments waiting for each canton... And that always ends up feeling or putting down the danger of mercantilization. And that, beyond deprivation, must also be dealt with. Next thing. We talk a lot about "no work" and "no work" in Catalan or English, but we should talk about "public and non-public". I know there are a lot of people who don't want to put this barrier in place, but we think it's going to be, this barrier. Because, in fact, we also recognize that there is a heterogeneity among providers that is very good in many moments, but we also have to say that between organizations and providers without work there are some who do the same for or more than work. And this is documented, if not, ask the Union of Accounts. And that brings me to the third thing. You can't go on giving public money to non-profit entities that are a bit of an opacity. It's also documented. It can't be that we donate millions of public sums that citizens pay to entities that are not under the control of this Parliament. This was said in this chamber by a Republican leftist, and continues to be present. And lastly, you talk to me about two deprived hospitals, but we also have to talk to you about rehabilitation, which is privatized; about the mental health system, privatized; about the socio-sanitary, privatized with providers that some do a lot for. So long as we don't talk about this, we can't congratulate him, so, overtly, right? We cannot say 'congratulation'. But, I insist, let's recognize this step, this gesture. Now, what we have on the table is that we don't want it to be a gesture. I also said it's a historic day because the PSC's bet on this move to advance into a public health system..., and I say it's historic because it looks like the PSC keeps Marina Geli's long shadow. We rejoice, as we at least rejoice to leave the Geli Navy – which is now Junts for the Yes, but well... I'm done. As I said – I'm running out of time – this is a historic day; it causes nerves. To begin with, it causes nerves on the same board as the counselor; we saw it at the communication media these days, because we can't forget that Juntes for Yes we also have the business sector, which is what the ‘Convergence and Union business sector' is saying, which is nervous. But know, counselor, that we will be at your side to stand up to those who do not believe in a public system, come from where they come. And to put an end to the nerves we have Citizens, who when it comes to depriving you very clearly have your options and join this business sector of Democratic Convergence, and we find our motion. In the motion, he says, textually: "That the participation of suppliers with any kind of work is impossible. Ep, no, not here. So it turns out here that it's not impossible, but it's not a priority. You said you didn't have to go with political tactics. That's a huge political tactic. Listen, the white tide has made it very clear: public sanitation, with public money. And I think this is the only time we need to move, and that's why we're voting for this young man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.180.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms. Montserrat Candini, from Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.181.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members, and Members, first of all, how is it that we are talking, logically, about health resources and that I see that there is a certain concern about what we think, what we think, what we believe and what we want to defend, because there is no doubt that I will read to the people who have this internal need, therefore, exactly what Junts' electoral program says for the Yes. And he says: "The Catalan public health system is the result of the efforts of generations that have prioritized salvation and contributed to the creation of the current system. Professionals, workers and citizens have understood and defended the importance of enjoying a public, universal, quality, equitable and sustainable health system. I insist: effort of generations. Therefore, doubts, not one, and I made this clear. I want to take advantage of this young man to make a claim to the model. Yes, he claimed the model. Yes, claim of the model that it sees from the 1980s, in which Dr. Espasa, model also concerted for all political forces, including the PSUC, a PSUC that does not need to be said, that had social sensitivities, but [[some applause]] from every canton, and there is no answer. Therefore, from the health map to the 1990 law, which, moreover, pulls out territories, to more, pulls out municipalism, to more, pulls out so many things, and we do not confide what is concert with privatization – we do not confide what is concert with privatization. It is true that some people think that the new policy is to say that politics begins with them, and that it turns out that the new policy of them is to say that a lot of mistakes have been made far beyond all these years, and it seems that I understand that it will now be clear. What he's gonna do now, like he's always done, is try to donate out and serve with a patient's eye. Patient's eye, isn't it? [[Some applause.]] Therefore, above all, I would like much more than just populism and demagology contextualize enough, and I will read you an article for the president of the Catalan Association of Care Resources who says: "From ACRA we propose a reflection that is not so much centered on the ownership of companies as on the need to work with quality and rigour. They can't be – said the president of ACRA – "they can't be demagogic or play with words to make a easily sellable speech that only seeks to confuse the citizenry. The counselor has always spoken of preference and not excluded – preference and not excluded. Certainly, you, Mr Albano, are talking about the business sector. Well, we know that poisoning can be a profession, you know. Jo, in faith– in faith– that I can give them, let's say, own experience. But let's say the Barcelona SAC – the Barcelona SAC – won it Florentino Pérez. When you talk about business sectors, I'd walk with a lot of cure. [[Greetings.]] For what you're doing on the subject... when you're talking about a patient's look. Patient look, obviously, means satisfaction indexes. Only two data: the average is 8.2_on_10, two tenths on the 2010 result. Global satisfaction in Catalonia is 7.6. That it's always possible to get better? Sure. That the will is to improve it? Sure. What, above all, is that there is no empty space of obligation with this public service spirit? Well, I'm sure of it. But in any case, patient look and little demagogic, please. In this model that I defend and that we defend, it is above all: more diversity means more flexibility. More diversity equals more flexibility means greater crisis response. There is no worse; that beyond dogmatisms, it is a rigid mindset, rigid mental margins than what they do is not being able to give answers to the needy. Therefore, for us, Clarissim: demand of the model. Preference does not mean, it is not excluded but preference, and, in any case, patient gaze and be at the height of circumstances. We, in any case, will vote against the first point. I think it is an absolutely opportunistic point on the part of the Socialist Party. I know it's hard for them to deny their own story, but every one of them will know how to carry the motxilla, but in any case, I, at all events, do not deny the king, and more than anything else they can have, let's say, at some point, mistakes on the part of my party, I'm willing to improve as much as possible. So, too, all the rest, we will vote in favour, because everything you have to see with the transfer stage, the counselor said this morning in response to the inquiry. The councillor spoke of a new stage. It's a new stage, Counselor, because there's also a new law and, above all, because what we all participate in is a political culture – all of us – all of us – all of us who wanted to vote for the law of transparency. Therefore, trust, indeed, as the counselor said. Yeah. And I add: with rigor and seriousness, fleeing populism and demagogicism. And finally, let me read you a..., of the thinker Francesc Torralba – I think you're coming up a lot, don't you? , with all these sounds, there is a lot – which says: "Audacity cannot be an excuse to succumb to fear and fear. So, thank you very much. And I'm convinced that we have the calling to serve, all folds. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.182.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.183.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, with my doubts about the intervention of Mrs Candini, whether the Councillor shares exactly her intervention, because it gives me the impression that the speech of the group that supports the Government is quite different from the speech that the Councillor supported until today for this parliamentary group, I will make my intervention, and after hearing the interventions of the rest of the groups, changing the order, is to say, I will start by the end, in the sense that philosophy will explain it, if in time, but I will speak about the motion that is being put forward by the Socialist Party today. That, basically, what the Socialist Party is asking of us today, in point 1 of this motion, is not that the suppliers of gloves are public – because the internment centers are not any provider, they are the internment centers – basically, it is expelling from the public health system the Clinic of Vallès, the General Hospital of Catalonia and the Sacred Cor and the Clinic of Girona. That is what the Socialist Group has tabled today, paragraph 1, which it is calling for to amend Decree 196/2010. That one already remembered it, by the dates, but wanted to ensure it and, indeed, it is a decree signed for the Councillor of Salutation, at that time of the Socialist Party – now we do not know exactly what party –, Mrs Marina Geli; the President of the Generality, José Montilla, yes, of the Socialist Party – Senator of the Socialist Party – and I suppose it supported for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which also included the Councillor Comín at that time, didn't it? And precisely in that decree, in the articulated text, as it had always passed to Catalonia, it allows the public good that is sanitation also to come from private centers, and between private centers, from internment centers, to the Sacred Cor and to the Clinic of Girona. The Vallès Clinic, the fruit of the Alliance Rescue, did not appear, nor did the General Hospital of Catalonia, the fruit of the rescue of the General Hospital of Catalonia. Therefore, this young man is a SCP item at the same SCP, or is a SCP item at the opposition to the government's SCP. But, in addition, I believe that what shows the PSC in this case is that what it does is to put the ideology before the public service, and especially before the public health service. And Mr. Dante said: "Today is a historic day. I said to him, "No, today is a historic day – a historic day. Because there are groups, there are people who are able to say one thing and the counter just because they, I suppose, carry the counter. But, in short, I agree with Councilman Comín when he said this morning: "I would not want to make decisions without a minimum of rigour. And, therefore, with our vote against at this point number 1 proposed for the Socialist Group, what we are doing is to say: "We want the public service to be put in front of the dogmas, before ideology and, therefore, we want decisions to be taken rigorously, which we believe is not being done from the advice. And I did well to start at the end, because I'm only left to say three things with the time I have left. Is it legitimate to provide a public good like sanitation through private media? We understand that if the goal is to achieve a public good, such as salvation, we need to use all available resources, and the available resources that we have are both public and private, and if we don't have enough with public media, we use private media. Yes, counselor, but before you have to evaluate three things, before you make any decisions. One: from the point of view of the patients: the decisions that you are taking benefit the patients? No – no! Look at what happens in the Tauli Park; look at what the workers in the Tauli Park say, to which they retail, don't give them more beds, don't give them more surgery, no, they retail beds and surgery. And with this they must meet the increase in demand that they will hold from the Clinic of Vallès and the General Hospital of Catalonia. Is he going to be a million for the pros? Neither do you. An ERE of 256 workers who can't go straight to public health, counselor, and you know it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's not an inquiry. If you want, counselor... I'm not lying, listen to me, it's the data that we have, that we know, that you know, because...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.184.0	Mr. Rodriguez, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.185.0	...you explain them, and don't like them. But in any case, we will vote against point 1, we will abstain on 2 and 3, and we will vote in favour on 4 and 5, because all that is given information is welcome.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.186.0	Time's up, I know it's hard. [[Some applause.]] Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, you have the word Assumpta Escarp, to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.187.0	Thank you, President. In short, as we see it, I believe that we have made it very clear: it is to strengthen the public health system, and I am not worthy of definitions or electoral programs. I refer to what we have always done: strengthen the public system of salvation. I did not follow, nor did my group, who made an announcement in this very rostrum, exactly: "The greatest deprivation of public salvation or of the sanity of this country. And remember that it is not the first point of this young man, but the council of government of the CatSalut, which has expelled two of the hospitals already of the Siscat – the council of government of the CatSalut –, therefore, do not scandalize us of what the same organs of government do. I repeat: what we have done is to collect his will, that we share, and to shape it – I thought it helped – and to shape it in the best way possible. Listen to me, I, who come from the PSU, need to have more legitimacy to talk to him than others. I could tell you that with consensus what we could do is... – Mr. Comin, too, what happens is that you've gone a little further and I've stayed a little further here–, let's approach... [[Some applause and fondness.]] Exactly. Let us address all the questions that need to be addressed in these mandates and that we should do, which is the Health Order Act of Catalonia, twenty-five years later. And here we are, counselor, and all the parliamentary groups, it's worth it that we pose ourselves and pose ourselves as the LOSC's parents did, with consensus and fact. And I would say to Mrs. Candini: and let's do it, not putting the patient..., nor with a patient's gaze, with a citizen's gaze; because with a patient's gaze, many times we forget about a fundamental aspect, which is prevention and public health. If we look at it with a citizen's eye, we may be spared, and much, resources for salvation which, in fact, is what it is about. And, finally, I would like to say that the Socialist Group and the Socialists have a lot of responsibility for us, as if the Socialists or this group had to be tied up with hands and feet, without any possibility of – on reflection, on analysis, on knowledge, also on the experience of the Government – making proposals for the future and having freedom to do so. He is the one who demonstrates his electoral program, the motions he brings and, also, the one he raises respects – here – the Government. You have all the right to evolution, as you have all the right to many of the Members who at the time were in the Socialist Group and are no longer there. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.188.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Call it a vote. Mr. Albano Dante, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.189.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.190.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.191.0	Thirty seconds. Mrs. Candini says we're populists, demagogs, right? And he's talking about flexibility. We're populists and she talks about flexibility... what flexibility? The one that allowed Ramon Bagó to get rich with the money from public health, skipping the law? Or the flexibility that allowed Xavier Crespo to make 2,4_million euros disappear from the hospitals of Blanes and Calella, where you, by the way, are you mayor? This flexibility you're talking to me about? So, this flexibility, we don't want it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.192.0	Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.193.0	To clear the PSU image. [[Rialles.]] No, no, yes, yes, forgive, forgive... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.194.0	Mr. Coscubila... [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr Coscubiela, it seems to me that the Rules do not speak of clear names of entities, only, in any case, of persons and deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.195.0	I'm telling you in another way, because with the lady's statement... Mrs. Candini's intervention, she's missing the truth, and it directly affects me. He asks for the word to contradict a statement that, according to Article 85 of the Rules, I have right to contradict.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.196.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.197.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ms. Candini, you're from those people who are used to recreating history, but please leave the PSU aside. Between Mr. Ramon Espasa and Mr. Boi Ruiz, whatever looks like reality is pure coincidence. Mr. Ramon Espasa, as advisor to the pre-autonomous, pre-constitutional Generality, set aside a program of salvation, of prevention and, above all, of favor to the women, because they might own their reproductive salvation and this cost the director general of that time the dismissal for Mr. Tarradellas, urged by...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.198.0	It's been 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.199.0	...people like you. Between the reaction and the PSU there is a brutal difference. Stop talking about the PSU.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.200.0	Mr. Coscubila, they've been through 30 seconds. Thank you very much. [[Montserrat Candini and Puig ask to speak.]] Mrs. Candini.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.201.0	Thank you, President. More far than recreate the story, especially when one in a form part, among other things, because my husband was hired by Franco, because he was part of the PSUC. [[Some applause.]] Therefore, some think that they have the heritage of history. Mr. Coscubala, this story has been formed by many generations of people, and it was not born politics the day you decided to dedicate yourself to it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.202.0	Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.203.0	Separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.204.0	How many points? [[Widow's remorse.]] I'd like them, please, that... [[Some applause.]] Please, keep them quiet and respect. Mrs. Rovira, what points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.205.0	To request separate vote from point 1, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.206.0	Point 1. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.207.0	More than '1, 2-3 and 4-5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.208.0	[[The president laughs.]] Maybe we'll vote for them all separately. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We are being asked to vote separately from point 1 and then 2-3 can be voted together and 4-5 can be voted together. [[Widow's remorse.]] Is that clear? [[Pause.]] So, first we vote on 1, after 2 and 3 together, after 4 and 5 together, and, lastly, we vote on the rest of the motion, okay? [[Pause.]] So, start voting point number one. It was rejected by 36 votes to 95, with 0 abstentions. We will now vote on points 2 and 3 together. The vote begins. It was approved by 121 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. Now we're voting points 4 and 5 together. The vote begins. It was approved by 132 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes against. And now we vote... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, yes, that's true. Fantastic, fantastic. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into territorial planning]] [[302-00036/11]] Let's move to the next point of the order of the day, which is point number 22. The twenty-two point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the territorial planning, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Lord Sergi Saladié. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm asking them to shut up, please. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.209.0	All right, thank you, President. We are here to present a motion from an inquiry that we did about fifteen days ago, which dealt with, or deals with everything that refers to urban planning and its fit within the territorial planning in Catalonia. We say fifteen days ago that they are an instrument, they are a tool, the urbanistic master plans, which, from our point of view, distort the territorial planning, the whole logic of territorial planning, especially, and from the modification that the PDUs suffered with a legal modification in 2012, concretely, from Law 3/2012, which allowed and allows the urbanistic master plans to overlap and distort the territorial planning and urbanistic planning. Let's say we cost many years to have territorial planning in Catalonia, concretely about thirty years, to have territorial plans. And now that we have them, we make a law that allows us to transgress them, allows us to transform them. And we ended up saying – and we ratify it – that, for us, poorly used urban management plans, which is a tool that has some important elements and that are interesting to apply, but poorly used do in fact mean a liberalisation of the hidden soil. In fact, they are a tool that perverts the logic of territorial planning and urban planning, since it is a tool legally derived from urban planning that is used to make territorial planning. And, in addition, there is – and we commented on it – a series of critical aspects, this tool, especially when it applies fraudulently, since, from our point of view, and so on, we have arrived from the different collections that are affected or involved in these urban master plans, minimize these urban master plans, and do not adequately integrate the planning or prescriptions of the strategic environmental assessment that is made in each of them. They are documents that are processed with little transparency; we commented here, then, "with night and summer, we know, counselor, that you have stated that August cannot be put to public information according to five types of documents, but it is always, therefore, July 30 or July 31, eh? , which, in the case, is going to be the same. In many cases, in many cases it is so. Yeah, don't say no, it's like that, it's like that in a lot of cases. Besides, they don't respond to the common good. When we look back on these urban master plans, we always end up finding big corporations or big interests, often like, for example, the case of Barcelona World, large finance corporations. Urban management plans are some of the tools that should be used for the comprehensive planning of the territory, especially in complex cases and not to benefit certain enterprises or not to use the PDUs, as we say, to make farm brokers with land purchase transactions. It is for all these reasons that we present this young man, who has five points, and it is a logic to work, say, that everyone can hear. The urban planning, in fact, already applies this logic that we want to apply through this movement, which is that when we make a POUM, that means that a municipality holds, reflects and decides on which model wants to develop in a future, is suspended from litigation. Why? Why does the construction of new work not distort this model that we are configuring through the definition of this model, eh? , through this POUM. We here want to apply the same logic. We're making a law of territories, we're doing the government, and it's one of the points that we're here to bring before three months, this law. I mean, we'll ask for it, then you'll bring it back when you're fighting, won't you? But, I mean, we want it to be before summer, so we can have some time, don't we? With these divided months, that every time they are less, to be able to process it in this legislature and I am not stuck. We say: apply this logic to urban planning, that when we make a POUM we suspend labor claims, therefore, if we are defining a new model of territories through a new law. We seem to take air, think, review all of these urban master plans under this new law, we introduce – while we continue to process these urban master plans – some better ones that can be concrete – are actually explained in this motion, concretely, at point 2 –... to introduce all of these better ones, which, for us, effectively involve urban master plans that respond to the common good, urban master plans that guarantee and respect municipal autonomy, and partial territorial plans, above all... ; incorporate a deepening into the processes of democratic participation, both in the search of the city's consensus as well as institutional and not only at the level of the municipal autonomy, and partial territorial plans, above all... ; incorporate a deepening into the processes of democratic participation, both in the current proposal of the urban master plans that guarantee and respect the autonomy of the city, and the partial territorial plans, above all...; incorporate a deepening into the processes of democratic participation, both in the search of the city's consent and not only at the level of the joint, but not at the same time, but at the same time with the environmental proposal; And, in any case, we also ask that those urban master plans that are driven by the government pass through its parliament – let us also specify here whether they should pass through the plenary, that we would like to be a little exaggerated, but yes, as a minimum, by some committee, in this case the Territorial one – to seek, deepen, a greater consensus, find a balance between all the parliamentary forces, because, if not, we have no other way to control the government in these master plans that it deals with autonomously. In any case, I will refer to the other points, and concretely to the point of agreement that we have reached with different groups that have submitted submissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.210.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", from Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.211.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I'm sure that hearing Mr Sergi Saladié the majority of this chamber shares what he has exposed to us, the company Sergi, who is more an expert on these issues, because he knows it. The problem is the reason they presented, that when we all saw it, we put our hands in the head; the first text. Because, of course, everyone knows that there's no mortuary. Anyway, you can't make a moratorium. You have to suspend. Or revoking plans that are approved involves jumping your local autonomy and requiring you to pay rights to third parties that have been acquired during processing. Therefore, I understand that this was part of the strategy of the UPC, that I respect, to say it very big, or to make a reason that the text was very big, so that then we might learn to negotiate. Because, in the end, the plot, or the nucleus, of the theme is what it has exposed: it is that we have a problem with these supramunicipal master plans coming from Law 3/2012, from the bus, a law that we remember that was done in a determined context, in a context of governance pact between Convergence and the People's Party, at a time when the government had a dynamic and, well, the very same was the business friendly, we remember Eurovegas, and I believe that it was more responsive to the needs that there was at that time of being able to facilitate Sheldon Adelson's installation, that the Eurovegas were installed, and therefore we needed this urban figure that would allow him to do so. Therefore, a figure that, as the company has rightly said, we should abolish. And we should plan to eliminate... there must be supra-municipal plans, because sometimes we need instruments that wander beyond a municipality, but not supra-municipal plans that can violate approved POUMs, can go, at all, to higher planning figures, or protection figures like PEINs, as it happens, as it happens. Therefore, I believe that the basis of the question is this, and that they can change the qualification of the solo against what the assemblies say. That's why, with points 1 and 2 we already agree – well, there's the part that plans are vegan here, that we just don't know what the mechanism should be, we just didn't like it, but, well, we understand that we'll find the mechanism already – but at point 3 we would have liked that you didn't follow a list of plans. Because, mirin, as they say in castle, there are neither all who are nor are all who are. You've been listed here, but there could be no others, or there shouldn't be others. Because we, for example, know that with the AREs..., that the AREs come from 2009, when more were approved late, they were approved late and because the convergent government in many years had not made residential alone planning. When it was approved, many were no longer needed, because we were in the midst of the real estate bubble crisis. And I know the government only disqualifies. So, here it is already negotiating, the government. Or in the case, for example, that there is..., we have a problem now with the PDU of the Cerdanya airfield, and there is no change. Or there is the Centre Direccional de Cerdanyola del Vallès, which we know, at least for statements to La Vanguardia, that the government negotiates directly with the assembly. So, in the accounts of having made this list, that, well, I think I was going with another intention, and that I don't think it's good to move so punctually here, I would have liked our idea better, that it was more global and that what I was saying was: "Secute, those plans that are in process or that have been approved and that generate conflict, in that there is no consensus or social agreement, let's review them, if ladder, study them, try to reach agreements, if not..., and especially in cases where there are no rights acquired from third parties. Therefore, we would have liked to have approved our proposal. There's a point we won't vote for them, we'll abstain, which is the Law of Territories. Because we understand that this law is very powerful, it's a law that needs a lot of consensus, and we see it here. Here the problem we have is that there are not enough consensus, in many of these plans. So, it's a law that we all talk about, and we don't know if three months is enough time for a law of so much descent, so I can get here. We don't know what the department's work is like. In this case, at this point we would abstain. And also thank Mr. Saladie for his disposition... to have dealt with these three points, and the will... that I think we can get to all those who are in processing... I'd like to think that it's another historic moment in which we are and that there will be the will to be able to reach agreement with all the actors involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.212.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr Sergio Sanz, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.213.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, the motion presented by Mr Saladié made a series of points with which we disagreed. With the original proposal we cannot agree, because we think that suspending the drafting of all, absolutely all, urban master plans in the hope of the approval of the new Law of territories could be contrary to the general interests, as there are many different cases and these can give answer to concrete needs to which to give solution. Nor could we agree to revoke the approved plans to adapt them to our criteria, as it would be a measure that would run counter to legal certainty. And this could have two negative effects: on one side, I would assume to go against the generation of favorable conditions in the creation of jobs, which, in a context of time as we have no band, and on the other side, I would suppose there would be compensation for the compensation of acquired rights, as mentioned before by Mrs Hortênsia Grau, and there would be compensation that would come out of the public assumption, a presumption that must be managed with a lot of interest..., to hear the social needs to which we must respond. Arriving at this point, I would like to thank Deputy Sergi Saladi for the good disposition we have been able to work on the content of the motion, until the point we have been able to agree with most of the text, which I think will now be able to get out of the way. And it's no longer proposed to suspend it or revoke it all, but to review the urban management plans in progress or approved to improve them, which can make it possible to seek consensus among all the agents who have to intervene in urban planning. And in Citizens we feel like we're acting this way, because we're supporters of reforms, incremental changes, and not ruptures. That said, I will stop to comment on what is indicated in point 2 of the motion, which we believe is the most substantial, which is the most purpose, and in which are indicated some of the principles with which territorial planning will operate in a future and with what it is intended to be reviewed or approved urban master plans. We think that, indeed, in the same way as the POUMs, and as the Member Saladi has announced, are approved in municipal plenary, it is convenient, in terms of democratic control of transparency and public responsibility, that the urban management plans that the Government pushes remain supervised and submissive to debate and approval by the body of political representation, which is this autonomous Parliament, either in plenary or through committees. It also seems to me necessary to deepen the processes of participation and civic consensus in the matter of urban planning. We are sure that if these processes are well defined and measured they can be a good tool for improving public management. And to end with the content of item 2, say that we consider it essential to strengthen environmental assessment and protection in the area of territorial planning. And in this sense we hope that the new Law of Territories incorporates the criteria or strategies that reduce the consumption of natural resources, the consumption of soil and the consumption of energy, thus facilitating the change to a socially, economically and environmentally more sustainable model. In fact, what is indicated in this distance from the motion is in line with which the report's document of conclusions on the preliminary debates of the new Law of Territories, drafted now a year ago and which, in a way of collapsing the back of principles between which are already found in this motion, has been drawn up. Therefore, we will vote in favour of all points, with the exception of point 3, in which we will abstain, because, while we are in favour of revising the urban management plans approved with the above criteria, we believe that it must be a review that is done with the measure that is possible, as we have proposed to our dream, that we have not been able to agree on this. But we understand that the government will do with this abstention the reading that corresponds to the arguments that I have just put forward. And I finish my presentation immediately to the government because I work in the indicated line and also because we are present in the proper months, as indicated in the motion, the projects of the law of territories and land alone, so as to have an updated legal framework that can give response to the present and future challenges in the matter of territorial planning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.214.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Mrs Meritxell Roigé, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.215.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Rull, Director, MPs, MPs, Member of Parliament Salad, this is a young man in whom, as you know, we will not be able to reach an agreement. In the end he didn't accept us practically anything. Just a little thing, we'll talk about it later. And, therefore, we consider that it is not appropriate to approve it for which I would suppose at the country level, for which I would suppose for the master plans that are in progress or that are already finished that are reviewed in its conjunction, putting them all in the same bag, we mean, without arriving at an accurate study of each circumstance, of each place, exactly of each territory we speak. The urban master plans understand that they must be, in our opinion, a tool to order the sectors, in order to allow us to locate an economic activity, according to each case, according to each circumstance, according to each territory, according to each moment, and they must also allow us to regulate concrete aspects that have generated the need for an order of its conjunction, an order specialized in that territory in concrete, and therefore will certainly require a more urgent action..., that the fact of staying and reviewing it would suppose that we could not give an answer to this need at the time of ordering these situations. That's why we can't admit what's asked at the first of the points, which is to check them all and each one. Why do we understand... why all of us? And why Parliament? Who are we in Parliament to review all the plans? What paper do the affected assemblies have here? What paper does the local world have, in this case? We understand that it is necessary to listen to the local world, to listen to them, to reach consensus, obviously, but not that it is reviewed because the Parliament of Catalonia so approves. Therefore, we understand that this is not the way to be able to do it. We thought that the wording we proposed was more appropriate, that we understood that, according to the current economic situation in the country..., it was supposed to study whether all PDUs are necessary and to rule out the processing of those who do not generate social consensus and do not generate any right to compensation. Because we also need to talk about this, we really need to see what consequences it has for the Administration. At the time, the new Llei of territories is planted as a tool so that it can be determined how this processing of urban master plans is to be. And with that we agree. The new Law of Territories, now in progress, has to assume, was told by Councillor Rull to the past Ple, to pass from the growth in extension to an urban recycling, establishing a supramunicipal view – these are the ones that have to tend this Law of Territories we work on – and also always ensuring a greater integration of environmental, social, economic variables, between planning, strengthening, in short, this public function of ownership and public leadership of the policy of soil. Therefore, we believe that in terms of participation we can go more, we can go better. Obviously, it can always get better. But in any case, we believe that, as we put it in our mind, it was more appropriate to be able to incorporate among the new Law of Territories mechanisms that can go further, which allow us to be even more involved in urban planning, but not, in any case, to review it, as you ask. So here we don't understand each other either. Then, ask us, for what it does to those approved master plans, also review them all absolutely. And they put us here, a list. We don't agree with that either. First of all, as I said before, I'm going back to ask: what do you say, the local world? How can a vote today in the Parliament of Catalonia change the whole process that has taken place so far? I mean, we can't afford it, but the more I think we still have no skills to do it. And, therefore, we have mechanisms to adapt the different urban master plans, so as to review them. For example, we have a very big example, which is the Pla Urbanist Director of AREs. And here I would like to remind Mrs. Grau that they did it when you were in government and that this government, the year 2012, was able to remain an article between the Law of Urbanism, when we modified it, which allowed the assemblies to review it and to change the uses, or to pull back those urban master plans that were made without counting people, absolutely people, and here as an affected part, with which they wanted local autonomy. Therefore, we have the tools so that we can modify, if we want, revise, these urban planning directors. And what Parliament can't do now is come and say that we review them all absolutely. And, therefore, we have these mechanisms so that we can do it. And I'm done. In the last place, we were also asked to be brought here to this plenary for processing within three months a law of territories. We've already explained: it's impossible to bring a law of territories in three months here. And it's impossible because everything you ask for, is that people participate, that entities participate, that everyone participates, that there are so many reports, that everything is absolutely participated, that this cannot be done in three months. And, therefore, we want to make a good law and, therefore, bring a law here on condition and that has passed through all the necessary mechanisms of participation. Finally, they have accepted one thing, five points: to move from three to six months the Law of agricultural land alone. So, fantastically, and we're very happy that you've accepted this point, but in any case, we understand, we thought that we were bringing a proposal that we could finally bring to the same place, and so we're sorry that we didn't reach this agreement. Because today we will have to vote on a motion that they only want to review, with the aim of paralyzing them, the urban master plans, all that are currently being processed or that are finally approved. We believe that this is not, much less, the way to make a good urbanism, an urbanism to the service of the country and of its assemblies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.216.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. To fix his position, Mr. Jordi Terrades of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.217.0	Mr Councillor, Members, Members, I want to talk about two aspects of this motion: one, which refers to the draft law of the territory, and another, to the planning of urban planning. We believe that the Government, when it brings the law of territories to Parliament, must do so in the best possible conditions. And what do I mean? So, what should I do when the bill, technically, legally, is an impeccable text, huh? There's already been a process of participation, there's a process of searching for this consensus in which it's the foreground, which we should allow or which we should allow in this chamber, once the government approves, end, huh? , to do a good job, to have again an instrument that allows to work the order of the country from a territorial point of view. Why? Home, therefore, because the economic, social, economic and demographic paradigms of the country have changed, and the timing in the next fifteen, twenty years has different indicators than when the Law of solo was approved. Therefore, from this point of view we do not demand in this..., we do demand from the Government that in this legislature, even though it is still short, I bring the bill to debate in Parliament ; but we will not fix a temporary term, eh? We want the law, when you come in here, to have this set of consensus necessary to be able to address the parliamentary debate in depth, to try to seek the maximum political consensus, because it is an instrument that we should agree on as many political forces as possible and that we should serve for the next fifteen or twenty years, huh? , with the modifications to be introduced in this way, but that is a phone book from this point of view. We will not give support to all the other side of the motion referring to urban planning. Because urban master plans are a perfectly valid instrument, huh? We believe, in addition, and I tell you with sincerity, that they are guaranteed procedures, in which the local world can participate perfectly and participate, eh? , and the economic and social entities of the territory as well. Says in another way: where there was some kind of conflict, despite the fact that Mrs. Hortênsia Grau told us that there is no such thing as mortuary... Home, in fact, there is, huh? , because I can talk to him about someone who is in these moments absolutely up, who doesn't know if he's going here or there, who's from the Village and Salou Recreation and Tourism Center. Therefore, instruments because the debate is produced, and which is produced publicly, there are. I understand the reasonings of the Member of Parliament for opposing certain urban master plans; I do not share the background of his exposition. Because... And I don't share that the urban planning boards pervert the urban planning debate, because they drink of municipal planning plans, territorial sectoral plans and territorial plans. You're gonna say no and I say yes, huh? It's my opinion – it's my opinion. And, still, to hear and not share your background, man, what I don't share is, sometimes, bringing to the extreme some of the arguments, that sometimes up to a certain manipulation of the objectives of the urban master plans or that they are in process or that all the filters and all the supplies have passed, and that have passed, to more, all the necessary reports at the time of writing: reports of mobility, environmental assessment, sectoral policies, public information, huh? – from public information – where everyone who thought he had to say something could do it. That is why we will not support it, because we believe that what we cannot keep is permanently the country in review; in review or in study. Sometimes we have to push some things forward, because they benefit the same territory and the same economic activity that the country needs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.218.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The words "Mr. Alberto Villagrasa", of the People's Party of Catalonia, follow.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.219.0	Thank you, President. Members, you present a motion that can only be understood from the ideological structure of your party, that is, to be anti-system, to be against the system and, of course, to be against all kinds of economic and social progress. For you, it is necessary to stop everything, to revoke it, to stop it, to paralyse all kinds of urban planning, all kinds of industrial development plans, all kinds of territorial development plans that combine, in the end, urban development, industrial development and all those economic opportunities that it gives to those areas, which affect the urban plan. And paralyzing these territorial development plans is not a very responsible attitude, I tell you, because in the end it creates enormous legal uncertainty for both administrations and individuals. And, in addition, in the motion, you avoid saying that these plans also make express mention of the respect and protection of green areas or agricultural areas, as is, for example, the case of the Llobregat Delta Urban Plan, which a large part of this plan makes express mention of the preservation of the natural areas of the delta. You return with the discourse of ecological catastrophe, where you believe that all that arises is the implantation of asphalt, concrete and cement against the green, and it is not true – it is not true. For you, the company is bad by nature, the entrepreneur is bad, but, look, many entrepreneurs are not only giving work, but also, today, helping to improve and preserve their environments. What you have shown is that you have a mentality proper to the trade union and industrial left of the 19th century, instead of the 21st century. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I won't. What is the purpose of these urban plans? We commented earlier: the urban, industrial and economic development of these areas, and the protection of natural areas. What does this mean? Job creation. How do you think a job is created? I sometimes think you guys think you're going out by spontaneous appearance, don't you? No, look, it basically creates work through three ways: the public offer, self-employment – which then generates more work – or working on behalf of others, i.e. hiring a company; and to do so, it is necessary to make it easier for the establishment of new companies and to attract new investments, which is what is involved in these plans. Your proposal goes against all of this – against all of this. Your proposal is not progressive, because it goes against progress. It goes against the evolution of society; therefore, it is a proposal that encourages involution, you are an involutionist party. And, for example, if we talk about the Circuit de Catalunya, that what is trying to improve the possibilities of wealth that this equipment gives, listen, gives many opportunities, not for Montmeló, nor for the Eastern Valley: for the whole province of Barcelona. This means billions of euros of investment for the whole province and for Catalonia. It places Barcelona and Catalonia in the world and brings and attracts many visitors. Of course, you don't care very much about this. On the Master Plan for Infrastructure Development of the Alt and Baix Penedès, look, the problem is not to revoke it, but to put it into operation. The problem with this plan is that this plan improves the economic industrial development of these two regions, will create almost six_ thousand jobs, and therefore nothing has to be revoked, on the contrary, it is urgent that it be activated. And then they talk about Cerdanyola; this is good, this is very good. What you propose in Cerdanyola is to delay all investments in that territory. Now, that's right, here in Cerdanyola there is a mayor of the CUP – five councillors over twenty-five – who keeps giving works licenses to urbanize different sectors of the municipality; he's beating all the records. That must be that in this case it is ecologically alternative urbanism, and that is valid. You are talking about two laws that propose to be presented within a three-month period, the law of territories and the law of the land alone, and we tell you that we are not going to support them, because the important thing is not the temporality of their presentation, but its content. And knowing what you think about urban development, private initiative, investment, and what you think about urban planning, obviously, we are not going to vote for you. This motion, we find, goes against all territorial and urban and economic development in Catalonia and we will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.220.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The words of Mr Sergi Saladié, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed, are followed by the words of Mr Sergi Saladié, to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.221.0	All right, thank you, President. First of all, I am very heavy on this, but we need to improve on everything that relates to the procedures and the terms of the presentation of papers and of being able to talk about the different issues that affect the contents of the motions. We've found each other again, or I've found myself again, so, at the last minute, negotiating for these passes and putting points and eating at different parameters, and with more time, probably, together for Yes we could have worked some points of agreement. Unfortunately, it couldn't have been like that. In change, with Ciutadans and Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, agraexo, so, this good predisposition to be able to talk and try, say, to lie down these positions for, for a band, try to prove that our approach is not to paralyze all PDUs, but to review them in depth, especially in these cases, say, more conflictual, as in fact we have an agreement with Junts for the Yes, of investiture, to review the Barcelona World, of which never again was known; we have made a meeting alone... And this is the philosophy that we want to apply to the rest of urban planning. Therefore, here, we could hear this, therefore, as a breach of contract by Junts for the Yes, when we are always accused precisely of the contrary, that you do not agree with maintaining a compromise you have acquired for an investment agreement. What have you said about the Juntes per el Si not so much, you have not done so much blood with this, but above all from the PSC or the PP, to say: "Clearly, you – you say – are against everything, you want to paralyze everything, yes, the problem that we have in Catalonia and precisely in the metropolitan area of Barcelona, and in the province of Barcelona, is also an excess of industrial soil, and what we are planting is that we review, under some criteria of how we reap the benefits of what is already built and not urbanized, not built..., how do we recycle all this territory? There's an excess of empty industrial ships, there's an excess of vacant industrial land, and, in change, what they want to do is continue to urbanize and urbanize and urbanize, in the name of some work places... that all this industrial land we already have, and they haven't brought them, these work places. Therefore, we must reinvent ourselves. That's to say, the partnership urbanizing-workplaces isn't right. It is to say, if the political parties, mostly, for which I have deduced – and, therefore, if most points are lost –, they want to continue with those very practical and attitudes that have led us to the crisis, so, forward; we go back to the trench, and there you will find in each of these struggles in defense of the territory. Only a final point in relation to the deadline for the submission of the laws. In the case of territories, all documents are already prepared. It was mentioned earlier by the Ciutadian Group that there is already a summary of all the participation process – I personally participated in these civic participation processes. Therefore, all this process is already done, and only what is missing is the power and courage of the present government to carry on in terms and, we insist very much, before the summer, if possible, because I give time to all parliamentarians to debate it thoroughly and that this law is not stuck in a legislature that, for us, needs to be short. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.222.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.223.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.224.0	Okay. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Granados?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.225.0	By separate vote of point 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.226.0	Five?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.227.0	Yes, thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.228.0	Mrs. Rovira... – Mrs. Rovira?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.229.0	Yes, forgive me. To ask for a separate vote on point 5. I just don't know if he asked...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.230.0	Five?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.231.0	Five.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.232.0	They've asked for it now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.233.0	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.234.0	They asked for a separate vote on points 3 and 5– 3 and 5. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Grau?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.235.0	To vote separately from point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.236.0	Four. So, we'll start the vote. We will vote separately on points 3, 4 and 5, and after the rest of the vote. So, we'll start by voting point three. The vote begins. It was rejected by 19 votes to 85, with 25 abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 26? [[Someone said, "No, 25.]] No, it seems to me that 25 abstentions: 19 votes in favour, 85 against and 25 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point four. The vote begins. It was rejected by 34 votes to 85, with 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 5. The vote begins. It was approved by 120 votes to 9, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was rejected by 43 votes to 85, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into public communication media]] [[302-00037/11]] Let's move to the next point of the order of the day, the twenty-three point of the order of the day. The twenty-three point of the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the public communication media, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Esperanza García. [[Widow's remorse.]] And ask them, please, to leave quickly and quietly. [[Pauses and persists the remorse of the voice.]] Quiet, and please. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.237.0	Perfect; thank you, President. Members, Members, today we again speak in this plenary about the need to improve and correct the lack of pluralism in the Catalan public media. The motion that we have put before you today from the People's Party details concrete measures to ensure, first, political neutrality; second, respect for the Statute and the Constitution, and the possibility of implementing operating commitments – so that then they say we don't also come up with the model. And those are, first of all, that one prioritizes own production on a public television with more staff than the sum of three publics: Andalusian, Basque and Madridn. Secondly, that the budget and budget balance of this public service related to other public services which are also of great importance to Catalan citizens, such as: health, education and social services. A third point, to ensure pluralism also in the areas of political debate. In short, I already know that the groups did not like this content of this motion very much. I am truly surprised that these very essential and key points do not like them when this motion is precisely the continuation of the inquiry that we made to them from the PP just two weeks ago. That which caused so much indignation in some quarters and which, therefore, made us confident that, despite that rapture and those cries that were taking place – especially from this side of the plenary – would not blind you to the introduction of amendments, they would not be allowed to be carried away by that spite when analysing this motion that we are presenting to you today, but, well, unfortunately, it has not been so. Yesterday a lot of things were heard in this gallery – it's true that I was out, I didn't hear it, then I came in, but I reviewed the video. Many adjectives were heard, many. Such as hypocrisy, provocation, cognitive and understanding insufficiency, and daring. I dared the People's Party to assert and choose politically to introduce improvement measures for the operation of the Catalan audiovisual media corporation. I guess the catalog will keep increasing it today. We are not surprised at all, but I also have to tell you one thing: the low democratic quality that exists in this plenary is very surprising, and I will tell you why... [[Widow's remorse.]] Wait, I know that I already know that when you don't like it, it's yours to scream. The reality is that in this chamber you can talk about everything. We can talk about industrial incentive, tourism model, health model, administrative model... Now, when it comes to discussing how the Catalan public media can be improved, we have come across dogma there. Well, it shouldn't be surprising because nationalism would be without dogmas and myths, right? But it is that for you, especially for Junts pel Yes, the question of TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio is not that it is a symbol, it is that it happens more because it is an instrument than a symbol. Now Junts pel Yes, it seems that you have abandoned the marine metaphors of the past legislature to which we were accustomed and tell us that the People's Party is failing its vision of the worldview, right? And what we have to say is that precisely those who fail are you. It is that you still do not accept that Catalan society is plural. A thing as simple as that: that there is social and political pluralism. And that's Catalonia these days. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank both PSC and Ciutadans, with whom we have had a fully dialogueal and quite collaborative relationship, for introducing some of their amendments. We have not been able to do what with Junts pel Yes and the CUP for two questions: Junts pel Yes I intended to virtually nullify what is the presentation of our motion, that is, of course, how you are going to risk Mr. Homs not having the live retransmission of his Tourmalet as a Precaup... [[Funnel veils]] , we understand – we understand! Now: the CUP has made us a little surprised, among other things, not that you do not want democratic standards to be met in Catalonia and that the Catalan media do not comply, come on, that's a classic, isn't it? , the thing about disobedience is a classic in you. However, your insistence on private media certainly leaves something to be desired, because it seems that you have not even read the title of the motion, which says: "Motion in relation to the public media. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.238.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.239.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. And it takes a long time for all the members of the chamber to resist this hour. She said that a man can spend two drinks in the same river... I won't be the one who asked the philosophy, but the truth is that the short time I spend in this Parliament, I have the feeling that I've already spent several drinks in the same river. It's easy to say he'll say, if he doesn't, each of the groups. And it can be summed up in the fact that the government's parties, and that they support the government, ensure that the public media are Spain's most plural, and the opposition parties say that this is not so, years against it, the lack of plurality. And the government's parties get a kick out of the audience, for a leader who thinks it's very important, despite the fact that this lead is so small that it's currently only 0.5_per_cent. This does not take into account that the audience meters are in 87_per_cent when they hold the català as the main language, while in real Catalonia this figure is as low as 35_per_cent. And the government parties insist that what they consider good audiences has a direct correlation with plurality, and opposition parties say that this correlation is not sustained by place. In any case, it is curious to observe these graphs [[the speaker shows some graphs]] we can see that people who consider themselves independent, that it is this more reddish color, look mostly at the telenews on TV3, while people who do not consider it independent, that it is the color blau, look mostly at the telenews on other channels. Government parties speak of plurality because there is only one, four or five, if we consider the presenter, in favor of the secession. A good example of this plurality we held the late Saturday morning of Catalonia Radio, where Francesc Homs, of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, intervened; Gabriel Rufián, of the Republican Esquerra of Catalonia; Meritxell Serret, also of the Republican Esquerra of Catalonia, and Sister Lucia Caram, who is a firm defender of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, and very especially of the Lord Mas. These absolutely legitimate political options represent 36_percent of the population. Do they really think that the rest, more than the remaining 60_per_cent, are they able to feel represented in these public media? In addition, Mrs. García said, that same day, Catalunya Ràdio dedicated a special follow-up to Mr. Francesc Homs, who made a bike ride from Taradell, his village, to the Món Sant Benet. What interest do you have in this? The Member who is talking to them now, like many of my party partners, comes every day to Parliament by bicycle, and I really never thought that this had any interest in anyone. I hope that one day, when I leave my home, I won't find a mobile unit of TV3 or Catalunya Radio to follow me up, because I believe, indeed, that it doesn't matter any more. We follow with more examples of information plurality. Divenres past, Pere Aragonès, also of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, stayed in the tertúlia of The mornings after having been interviewed for the lady Lydia Heredia. For this tertulia, which I seek to look at every morning, have passed – that is certain – policies of the different parties, but there is a difference: that, once the interview is over, these policies go away, and the Lord Aragones stayed in the tertulia, that is, while some are, more or less, thirty minutes in the antenna, others are one hour. From the city we want the public Catalan media to follow the best autonomous media in all of Spain and that everyone can feel represented, which is not happening right now. We understand that the young lady went this way, so we'll give her a lift in almost all her points, and I thank Mrs. Garcia for the good predisposition at the time to accept our message. And let's hope, in any case, that the public media in Catalonia can really be a few quality media, where everyone can feel represented, and that the low-renovated river needles, to stop having this feeling of water stagnation in which the process has converted public radio and television. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.240.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, Mr. Albert Botran has the word to defend his statements.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.241.0	Well, thank you, President. We had the suspicion that the young man was present to question the role played by the Catalan public media in our society, and that is actually the case. The concerns that the proponents have about Television in Catalonia and Catalonia Radio disappear as soon as we propose to bring the other public media, the state and private sectors into the debate, because they are also part of the public service that involves generating and issuing audiovisual content. In the preamble to the Law 22/2005, of 29 December, of the audiovisual communication of Catalonia, it is spoken of a reconsideration of the notion of public service and of a major role of the Generality in the regulation of the audiovisual sector, both in the area of autonomous and local public media as in private operators. With this intention, to open the focus on other public and private media, we talked about the People's Party movement, which – oh, surprise! – rejected all of our reviews. So don't expect from us another position that doesn't follow the vote against your young lady. I will only make three points: on plurality, externalization and the assumption of public media. We talked about plurality yesterday and we talked about it in the motion that the PSC presented, because we have now decided to put in the spotlight the thirds of the Catalan public media, and on our part it would not seem bad to us – we have also felt many times underrepresented in the opinions that are expressed in these thirds – but now, first, we also have to examine the thirds of the public and private media in Spain, and here the formats that were displayed on the day of the PSC's motion, and that I see that they were created in school, showing that we were working, and then, how can this qualification of plurality be made, that I could only be taken up in what topic? But we have been rejected and, therefore, I am not counting on us to make such a partial assignment to the Catalan Audiovisual Council. On externalizing productions, I see that they have not finally materialized this topall. Actually, the 5_per_cent they proposed was a totally arbitrary and reckless xifra. We agree with some topalls; it was already collected in the previous program contract, and we expect it to be collected in a proper program contract. And we could also start from the criteria that on externalisation quotas are collected in the white book that this Parliament has entrusted to the Council of the Audiovisual, criteria that have not been made in motion, but by observing how they do the public televisions that are referring to Europe, and which have a lot of these percentages that the People's Party was proposing for public television and radio in Catalonia. It is true that Spanish Radio Television is incomplete and intended for external production much more than that agreed on in its brand program, buying numerous external products, and in particular has stood out in these months in which its director has been in operation. You, for the Spanish media, do want external production, want television to be able to access this way to have quality content, like now In yours or mine, with Bertín Osborne, and, on the other hand, do not want TV3 to be able to buy, for example, Poland, putting at risk Xavier García Albiol's outburst as a clothing assistant, which we all proved [[relays]] that it was a pocket that exercised with excellence. Finally, on assumptions, we found excessively demagic that they want to link the game destined to public media with the parties of sanitation and education; to see if one day I can tell them the same with the game of interior or, in the case of the assumptions of the State, with the parties of military expenditure. We believe that pointing here is in the same sense that the limitation of buying external production that I just talked about: making the Catalan public media a bonsai in the jungle of digital terrestrial television. So, no. Here we are clear that public media in Catalan have a mission in the generation and diffusion of Catalan culture and language and that private individuals play a role in public service and that, therefore, when we come to value them, we value them at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.242.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. David Pérez, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.243.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Councillor, Members, Members, I..., do many legislatures that there is always a recurring debate in this Parliament, which is: "Listen to me, do we have to ask the government to complete the law? And I'm already wearing, I don't know, five legislatures listening to it, right? And there are different visions. Actually, it's a little strange that this Parliament asked the government to complete the law, but in the end I think it has already come to a conclusion to say: "Well, look, when the law didn't just complete, so it's not bad of everything we ask the government to complete the law. I am referring to the first and second points of the motion presented by the People's Party. That's to say, asking that there's more diversity of views on public television, so, look, it's not bad. Asking for more equality, asking for more plurality, so, look, it's not bad. And it is in this sense that we will vote in favour of this first and second point, second. At point 2.b we'll vote against it, huh? ; already explained, the representative of the CUP has clearly said this, and I absolutely agree. I do not know if the Member of the People's Party remembers a programme that is so clear. [[Pause.]] No, no, Well, the truth is he had very little hearing, huh? [[Rialles.]] It was a political tertulia program that was outsourced, and that was outsourced on a public television, when the PP ruled, huh? So... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, it was the program of the Sáenz of Buruaga; he was withdrawn for lack of audience. We cannot ask that the Parliament of Catalonia, that public television, that our public media do what they are not doing on other televisions. There may be externalisation of external production programmes, programmes with political content – I agree with Albert, with Mr Botran – for example, Poland. There's absolutely nothing going on– there's absolutely nothing going on. For a reason: because our system foresees that both in the own production and in the external production a series of parameters must be completed: pluralism, rigour,, let's say, equality.... Therefore, it is the same as it is done with own production or with external production. On the subject of point 2.c, indeed, we will also vote in favour. At point 2.d too, but yes, we agree, we have to find this point of balance between own production and external production. We believe that the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation must also have an engine component for the entire audiovisual sector in Catalonia. I, therefore, limit it to 5_per_cent, so it could be an excess. The idea made by the Ciutadans Group we consider to be uncertain, but in any case it is difficult to go a little where the program contract would be to redefine these figures. At the information level, another time, we talk about Spanish Radiotelevision: 2014 is 31.9_per_cent of external production; 2015 is also practically 30_per_cent of external production. We do not now ask Catalan public television which is only 5_per_cent; it would be unfair. But in any case, let's leave this debate when we talk about the brand program. And let's get to the last point, if you'll allow me, it's my point, the theme of asking for every time more plurality on public television. I will insist, I will not stop: it takes more plurality in our public media; I feel it. And I don't believe that, the theory that's how he listens to us a lot of people, we're very plural. It's not true, it's nothing to see, nothing to see hearings with pluralism. He said: "It is that we have – it is'mdeia yesterday – "a national project. So, all right, and we have another national project, and we have another country project, and we have as much right as anyone else in public media as we can express this project of ours, which is different. What's going on? That in the new Catalan republic the other opinions, the other views will not come out? Of course I do; or I hope I do, if any day above. Therefore, this must be changed and we must set ourselves up in plurality. I know very hard that the company of the CUP agrees with this point, that the company of the PP also agrees with this point, but that ultimately does not approve, for the subject that should also be watched by the other private media that can see'sa Catalunya'. I know it's hard, because I think it's a lost opportunity. I still think we need more plurality of voices, of different voices, huh? , of the vision of people who think..., of the vision, for example, of the woman. All this is needed, too, in public media. So, in the end, we voted separately from point 2.b, which we will vote against, and the rest we will vote in favour. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.244.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The words of Mr Sergi Sabrià, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.245.0	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Garcia, this is one of those motions that's wrong to debate, because, in fact, when you read it, there are points in which we might even agree, but then there's no good intention. And that's fine, because they don't love each other, and they warn us, more than that, that if we don't vote what you want, that, more than that, we're not democratic. It is true that we thought that this could be an opportunity to improve, to make effective this responsibility that we have from Parliament in the best of public media. But it's not, because you don't want to close plurality in Catalan public media. We would be happy to go down here and talk about doing more cross-cutting public media, and when we say more cross-cutting, I mean talking about how we reflect, for example, the whole Catalan territory on our television and radio, how we make the Jew or the Pirinaeus more visible; and I'm sure we can do that, sure we can do a lot better. Or from which must be the presence of the language or of the languages to the public mediums in a future to the mid-term. Or how we present all the dialectal variants of the català. But when you talk about plurality and equality, you don't want to improve the visibility of women on our television. And, besides, it doesn't come out of reality, nor does it come out of ACC reports, nor does it – that it would seem good to us already – from the reports of the Spanish media control authority, above all because, to the shame of the State, it doesn't exist. You're not aware that viewers – and it seems to me that viewers also have value – value Catalan public television as the most plural of all broadcast in Catalonia. And that's not what the CAC and the generality do, that's what the same viewers do. The strong mandate makes very clear the compromise of our audiovisual media with the democratic quality in the defense of pluralism, in the promotion of Catalan and Aranism, in civics, culture, education, independence... But also at times it is and must be the engine of Catalan audiovisual. And in this with your young lady they also want to put a shadow of doubt, like at least the original young lady, before the exams. You're asking us to get old so that public communication media complements the truth of information and public service. And I say it again: look at the ACC reports, which is why we have it. Just one vote against these reports, and I think representation is important. And the vote against, it looks like a great audiovisual media expert ex-parliamentary from this side of the street. [[The timer assigns the right side of the hemisphere.]] And if it doesn't work, and I say it again, look at the reports of the EPRA, of the European entity; look at the reports, look at the reports about our television and its plurality. Therefore, we ask him not to put more shadows of doubt, to cheat, to explain that television had come to have a presupposition of 450_million and that today it is 300, and, therefore, a detail that has not suffered from any other public service, and that, although this continues to be a leader. And, therefore, it seems to me that there are fears that you have forgotten. Ends the motion asking to change the criteria to analyze plurality with a proposal that has never been seen in place– never in place–, because to bring to term qualitative analysis of the information and the third parties, places the issue in a very, very, very – thorny space. Because pluralism cannot be left to interpretation on the basis of personal opinion, and, therefore, precisely because what you ask has not been heard, it is not the place of the world. And, on the other hand, we made him a proposal that was much better for us, if what you really wanted was to guarantee respect for and encouragement of principles and values such as tolerance, as respect, as diversity or as equality, and to guarantee it to everyone, to all Catalans, to all viewers, to watch the television that I watch, whether they look at Antena 3, as if they look at Telecinco, as if they look at TV3 or as if they look at 13 TV. Rather than changing the criteria on those that are already under ACC control, let's subject everyone to ACC control – let's subject everyone to ACC control. This was the theme that Junts presented for the Yes. We want to know why the unions say that Televisión Espanyola censored the summit for social emergence. We want to know if Antenna 3 promotes diversity. We want to know if 13TV respects tolerance. We want to know everything about everyone. And I think it would be good for everyone to know everything that everyone who acts in the Catalan audiovisual spectrum does. And you, at this, Mrs. Esperanza García, don't you dare. And it's a big deal, and it's also the definitive proof that what you wanted with this young man wasn't exactly about improving the plurality of the Catalan public audiovisual service. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.246.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, to fix his position, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.247.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. I have to admit that the motion presented to us today by the People's Party seemed surreal, if not surreal. As far as I know, when someone does something wrong down the head, I admit it and shut up or fold. So, well, it seems that the policies and policies of the People's Party are made of another paste and do not admit, neither lower the head, nor recognize anything; on the contrary, they are going to give us lessons from how to manage public media. It is seen that they are oblivious of the disasters, authentic disasters, that do when public television falls into their hands. And I'll make a quick rest of it. Tele Castilla - La Mancha o« Tele Cospedal, as they say at the time: the situation of information manipulation was so brutal, so scandalous, that even the last electoral campaign of the autonomous and municipal, workers and workers were vague in order not to broadcast the news. Only statements of the People's Party, changed images of the Socialist Party, and no image of the rest of the parties, as if we did not exist. Radiotelevision Valenciana. What do I have to explain? It was necessary to close in November 2013, after an illegal ERO of more than a thousand workers, and with a debt hole of 1,200_million euros. Vets, shame, parallel writings and a few more brutalitys that made us feel ashamed of our own television – shame. IB3. When Mr. Bauzá was president, he turned her into the Node and the courtship of the Popular Party. Telemadrid. The deproposal was so great that it came, at last, to link Zapatero to ETA; witch hunt, information excavated every day, under scandalous. And, of course, of course, Spanish Television, which saw a limited situation. A situation with work assets, degradation of work dynamics, lack of planning, creation of parallel writings related ideologically to the government, new witch hunt, displacements of experts, disappearance of negative information that speak of economy or society. And not only that, we remember that it had to be a private television that made it possible to debate four of the last general elections, a private television when there was a demand from the citizenry and Spanish Television refused to do so. A debate, to which, it must be said, your president did not appear... the president, yes... the president. And, besides, this time, he says that this isn't about him. So, well... we're seeing your party's democratic taranna. And you... now you're the ones who come to tell us how to manage public television. So they don't have legitimacy, they don't have credibility to do it, because you don't have a problem with information manipulation, the problem is when you're manipulating someone else, and that's reality. And I won't be the one to say TV3 isn't better. You know that, of course, you're better. And that's why we've recorded a bill that went beyond what we presented yesterday City and we were debating, because we believe that public television must be a reflection of Catalan society, with all its identities and all its views. And he said that, and now that we're all in context, despite this young man's cynicism, he announced that we would vote in favour of some of the points, which, on another side, were already approved in the last PSC motion, as Congresswoman Sierra had already commented. In change, others cannot; we do not think of criminalizing external production, over which, of course, there must also be control to respond to democratic values. The corporation also has to be – and Junts' company commented on this – an engine of the Catalan audiovisual industry, but it does not talk about big companies, it talks about small and medium-sized audiovisual companies, which, if they answer to criteria of professionalism, creativity and territorial roots in Catalonia, deserve an opportunity to public media. That, yes, and this part is important, always – always – that workers and workers in the public sector have guaranteed their jobs with decent conditions. And I finish, Mr. Cuminal, by referring to what you said yesterday. Clearly TV3 is and must be a national television, we have no doubt about it. For us, Catalonia is a nation, not for us, it is. But precisely because of this, because nations are plural, their televisions must also be plural. I, right now, TV3 isn't. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.248.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, in order to pronounce on the exams, has the word "Mrs. Esperanza García", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.249.0	Thank you, President. To see, first of all, to thank the presentations presented, both for Ciutadans and the PSC, I have already said this before, but I think it's a good thing to say it again. Respect for what the CUP said today, right? So, you see, no one is criminalizing external production from this Faristol. Now, what little confidence with the ability and with the own production impulse that TV3 has on it. TV3 has sufficient capacity and staff to give this own production impulse. And that's what he was looking for with this young man. It is also surprising that those who call themselves "left-hand" deny the possibility of linking a public service assumption, such as TV3, to public services such as sanitation, education and social services. At the end of the day, it seems that it defends itself more strongly than it does to defend the company's presupposition than to denounce that today, at the end of the day, the Catalonian Government has made itself a list – a list – of subsidies to private communication media that are scandalous, today. This is social priorities from the left of this plenary. It's very likely... well, it's almost certain that this young man is not approved today. You're obvious. But we will never give up, especially when those who vote against it, at last, recognize that the media, the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, are not plural. Therefore, do not comply with the public service to hold them against the law. It is to say, incomplete also the law, the law that guarantees to us all that public services will be for all Catalans, with respect. They talked about introducing qualitative criteria, which was a very dangerous thing, especially to the third parties... Miri, I only remember one thing: he found himself in the cove – in the cove, eh? – no more or less, than the Office of the President of the Generality, this house, a few years ago, a complete list of all journalists and who were their political sensitivities. You think that many of the people who participate in third parties in our public communication media are ex- MPs from this chamber. Listen, it wouldn't be so difficult to introduce these criteria without – without – condemning, criminalizing, or asignifying, or much less, the people who participate in them. Then I have to say something common to many groups, and you are talking about private media – private media. Again, the title of the young woman is clear. Now, you who have representation at the Congress of Deputies, if what you want is to control communication media from the national sphere, do the complaint there, do your job there. Look, we don't have another line left to follow – follow – by patting opinion forums to the information of the Catalan public communication media. Neither the monocolored tertules, nor the happenings that offend more than half the Catalan population. Notwithstanding this, we will continue to claim that the Catalan public communication media...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.250.0	Mrs. Garcia, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.251.0	...be all Catalans and with respect for everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.252.0	Thank you very much. Call it a vote. [[Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]] Mr. Coscubala?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.253.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 2.b– 2.b, from Barcelona – 2.c, from Catalunya, and 2.d. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-05-1502.254.0	Mr. Carrizosa? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The same. [[Pause.]] Separate vote from points 2.b, 2.c and 2.d has been requested. So, we start by voting point 2.b, after 2.c, after 2.d, and after all the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] We start by voting point 2.b. The vote begins. It was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 118 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 2.c. The vote begins. It was rejected by 51 votes to 67, with 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 2.d. The vote begins. It was rejected by 51 votes to 67, with 10 abstentions. And now we're voting for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was rejected by 61 votes to 67, with no abstentions. Thank you very much, everyone. The session's up.
