ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.1.0	It's part of the session. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into security policies]] [[302-00019/11]] Very good morning to everyone. The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on security policies presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party. To express it, Mr. Alberto Villagrasa has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Members, Members, from the People's Group, we are presenting this motion, which looks at the immediate future from Catalan security and prevention activities. In democracy, security is one of the services most valued by citizens, and the public authorities and politicians must be up to it; at least in the attempt. We have important security challenges, such as the urgent revision of the Catalan Security Plan, which I have already been told by the advisor who was in it, and a security plan that faces the problems of citizen security with determination, such as robbery with aggression or robbery at home; that addresses with determination the sexual assaults, which in the last year have risen..., that street violence, ill-treatment or the destruction of urban furniture are not allowed; that prevention is worked from school environments to the most conflicting neighborhoods; that small trade feels protected without fear of who enters through its door and fears its intentions; a security plan that continues to watch and work against jihadist terrorism, updating training and information to the Mossos d'Esquadra..., and that the material means for this purpose are improved; a security plan that can be worked on taking into account the coordination of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps with the rest of local police who work in Catalonia, but also with the police and the police who are not involved in the police. In order to ensure a good security system, sufficient police officers must be in place to respond with guarantees to the problems of everyday life. For this reason, it is important to plan the next mossos calls in these years in order to be able to meet at least the necessary police ratios, which today are not met, Mr. Counsellor. The next promotion, after passing the entrance tests and the academic period, will take time to be able to incorporate at full performance a little more than year and a half. For this reason, we propose an inter-administrative competition in order to be able to give the possibility and opportunity to police officers to be mossos d'ésquadra..., and, on the other hand, to have a quick way to be able to have professionals already prepared and trained without having to wait that year and a half to try to cover part of the police deficit that we have in Catalonia. Among the facilities that must be given to our security professionals, with the very present risk of jihadist terrorism, it must be facilitated that police patrolling can be carried out with a long weapon and that this measure does not have to go through any commission that lasts six months. The way this kind of terrorism works makes these decisions urgent and not complex when it comes to taking these measures. When we say that we cannot consent to the violation of the law in front of a police officer, we mean that a mosso, when that situation occurs, must act and be involved. How? For example, in front of the demadrado top manta living in the city of Barcelona, in the center of the city, port, metro facilities, or many cities on the Catalan coast, a policeman must act from a simple call to the local police or act on the illegal sale of counterfeit products, because they are economic crimes, and only by that fact could he act from the zero minute. When we see an agent passing through the blankets of illegal sale, imagine whether he is going to feel, or the feeling of impotence and defencelessness he is going to feel, a merchant. Then we talked about the need to protect traditional català trade. And if we believe it, we have to do it. And if we turn our face to the top blanket we are unprotecting all our merchants, who meet the standards every day. And finally, in this motion, what we intend to do is not to renounce the exercise of the particular charge in judicial proceedings against those who attack the public goods and the agents of the authority. If the Administration is firm in these situations, the message of seriousness and firmness given against those who fail to comply with the law is important, just as important is the message and sense of seriousness and security given to the person who complies with the rules and hopes that the Administration will give it its protection. Yes, it is true, Mr. Counsellor: I agree with you that there is no freedom without security. So let us work for freedom, and for that I ask you to vote in favour of this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.3.0	To defend the papers presented, the words of Mr Carles Castillo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.4.0	Members' companies, Members' companies, the president, the rest of the Bureau, very good morning to all of you. Allow me to begin this intervention today, with all the courtesy but also with all the clarity of the world, my first impression on this motion presented by the People's Party Group. And it's that the first one that came to my head when I read and analyzed the motion at a minimum is that it was a very demagogic, very big demagogic, and it seemed like a little bit – I say it with all due respect, huh? – a range of instrumental themes with little relationship between them, I think only with the intention of making it seem that it was very – very – close to certain interests on the part of security. I think we all understand each other. As far as internal concerns are concerned, our objective, that of all of us here, I am sure that it is the very same that the very editors of the motion also have: it must be to improve the safety of all the citizens of Catalonia. That being said, it is also fair to point out the positive attitude of the writer of the motion, Mr. Alberto Villagrassa, who has held a political belt, flexibility and good will to agree on all the respective issues of all parliamentary groups. And this positive attitude I have to say that you have managed to change this initial feeling, and I think that there are questions that you have considered with little depth in your proposal. And I already enter into the concrete analysis of the content, with the transactions or statements they have accepted. Regarding point 1, just a small comment, and we will vote for it, but the General Safety Board of Catalonia is already written, Mr. Villagrasa. What's right is to review it, and if so ask and observe the degree of compliment. We meant that he meant that when he asked for the writing of a general plan. And, therefore, we will vote in favour. Points 2 and 3, no problem, no comments. And at point 4 I have to say that it's where we have the highest doubt and see the highest risk, Mr. Villagrasa. There are warnings that we, the Socialists, will abstain from it. Asking from the Parliament of Catalonia that it is maintaining or opening up the possibility of determining units of movement carrying long arms, as well as the situation of anti-terrorist alert in which we find ourselves, and noting questions of training in the transaction of the papers, it seems very risky to us without studying it well, without looking at who and how there is a strict parliamentary debate and will be respected. And allow me, too, some reflections around this. First of all, we cannot deny the reality of the citizenry, but I do not think that it will convince us to launch a social alarm message. And I think that if we directly pose the possibility, or maintain, or say that we maintain, the possibility, to carry this type of weapon, we launch a message to society that can create social alarm. In fact, only the view of this type of weapon will give a message of intriguingness, and I believe that our responsibility is total control. But there's more, too. Have you thought that we have created in this Parliament a working group to analyse the use of electric guns and that it is not logical to open up the possibility of long weapons without a minimum of calm debate? Electrical guns are considered non-lethal weapons, or less lethal. The long guns, clearly, are lethal. So, if we open a debate, or a working group, for a few questions... I think it's not logical to vent this topic in this simple way. Have they thought, moreover, of the continuing formation that would cherish respect? In the adequacy of the mobile park to adapt it to this type of weapon? Yesterday the councilman pointed it out himself, without going any further. These weapons cannot be transported in any way. They must be transported in a certain way. Did they think they'd change the service orders? What are urban usage protocols to be established? So, well, all of this brings us, the socialists, not to close us to the fact that we are looking at the possibility of carrying long arms, but also to the fact that we do not like the fact that the Parliament is, without more, without technical criteria, which holds or recognizes this possibility directly. Count, very much, with these questions. With regard to point 5, on the subject of keeping you in mind, I would have liked to see our task being considered, because there is an express coordination with all local police, through local security assemblies and through the months of operation. But, despite this, we will also make the effort and vote in favour of it, because we believe that it is an important implication of the Squadron Squadron Squadron, because the poor parents of the Public Administration, who are the assemblies, need that the Squadron Squadron Squadron is very much in trouble because we lack instruments and media, as in so many other things in the local world. And lastly, on point 6, we simply proposed adding the comment that the Ministry of Public Prosecutions kept the public prosecution at all times and that, therefore, the defence of public interests is guaranteed, to make it clear that this defence does not lapse even though there is no express accusation on the part of the public institution. They didn't accept it, that thought, and, despite that, we would also make the effort and vote for it, because we are convinced that there are cases...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.5.0	Mr. Castle, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.6.0	...and moments when it is not only acceptable, but desirable, that the public institution is present as the accusation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.7.0	Next, the words of Mr. Matías Alonso, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.8.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I'm doing it to defend the papers that our parliamentary group has presented. To say that Ciutadans has at any moment seemed to have some spark, not so much alone, of demagogicness in a young man who touches a serious question that has to do with security, a security that we clearly define as an essential good. I think it's a shared vision for a vast majority in this hemisphere. But, in any case, they rely on a lot of officials, a lot of officials, in Catalonia and in Spain. Therefore, we must reiterate our gratitude for the efforts made by these working people, who often work in complicated situations, in even adverse situations. And it's true that this young man focuses especially on the Squadron's Cosos de Mossos, even though he makes a reference to the need to establish, or to improve, or to work, the existing Safety Plate and establish a new general Safety Plate of Catalonia for the next few years. We agree. We haven't presented any papers here. There are two other points of this young man... For the planning of the calls, it is true that there is a clear influence on a presuppositional issue, but it is also true that there is a great need, there is a separation, a gap, very great, between the current staff of the Cos de Mosso d'Esquadra and the needs that have already been established by the Board of Security of Catalonia many years ago– two years ago, that have been established these needs– and that we are over 1,000 agents of deficiency; 1,200 agents approximately, the current deficiency that has the cos respects that need. Therefore, even though we have a certain prevention for the fact that it is done in a generalized form summoning opposition..., or to enter the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra in an inter-administrative way, we think that it is true that there is an important fault and that it can be a quick way to begin to alleviate this deficiency that I gave them. We, in any case, at the first three points of the motion we did not present a report. We have submitted two items referring to item 4, which refers to the long-armed use. I think we should demystify it. It is not a matter of citizens' security agents having to walk through our streets equipped with this type of weapon, it is not this, but that they have this ability to respond before a determined crime that can put the security of the agents at risk and also the security of the citizens' joint. Therefore, it is in order to improve this ability to respond, that we are, therefore, in agreement with the materials, because we have submitted a statement to the original proposal of the People's Party, and our statement is in line with the need that the use of these weapons is made with the maximum guarantees of security and effectiveness on the part of the agents who are to serve them. Therefore, specific training is needed for the use of this type of weapon and it also requires continued instruction in the use of these weapons, so as not to lose this ability to respond and, above all, not to put in danger, at risk, so, others..., the citizens, the conjunction of the citizens, with the use of these weapons. Therefore, tell them that we will also vote in favour of this point. There is a concrete apartment that refers to the « top blanket. We presented a statement which referred only to the expression "of officers, we think that it was not appropriate to put it". But it is true that we have already seen a tendency to minimize this issue, and it is true that there are people who are being exploited in this illegal merchandise trade. This is a social reality, it is a reality today for many people in Catalonia and, as Mr. Villagrasa refers to, therefore, the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, the same city of Barcelona, but also for many places, especially in periods of tourism, where this illegal traffic of goods is fully in force. But we think that this pedagogy should be done and we would also ask the Councillor of the Interior, in this sense, therefore, that I work in the field of safety juntas in the different local entities, because they are aware that it is not only a matter of fighting, of fighting against a specific type of economic crime, but also against a type of exploitation of people who are doing a lot of harm, not just the traders, but those people who are feeling exploited. To announce that our vote on this motion will be favourable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.9.0	Next, there is the word Joan Josep Nuet, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.10.0	Thank you, President. I believe that the People's Party, in this chamber, in matters of security, must make a decision: if it serves the debate of security to make anti-independence demagogicism or gives the topic of security the depth and rigour that a debate of this importance needs. In Madrid you say that this is a matter of state, and here you should say that it is a matter of country, even though each understands the country as it thinks appropriate. Therefore, this young man has two parts: a reasonable part, which is a part of his color, because in matters of security you try to be strict, but he has another part that goes away, this will to make magic, also in this subject, against certain political ideas. So we'll vote for your good part, huh? Dr. Jekyll's side, and we'll vote against it, because obviously we can't share it and they haven't collected our papers. Three exams, we've introduced. The first is the debate on long arms. We think it's basically a debate that needs to focus on police protocols. It is the police who know whether to carry a gun, machine gun, subfuselle, helmet or boats, and that the Parliament of Catalonia has to position itself on this subject..., look, this is not like the hour shift, that we are using the long weapon and in winter we retail it. Now, we will accept and vote in favour of the transaction that you have agreed with Juntes for the Yes, because we think that the wording you are finally proposing is reasonable; but, I repeat, it is basically a police criterion. We agree that the Mosses carry long arms, I want to make it clear; but they need to know what it's like to transport, the type of training and, obviously, when, where and how. The other two themes. The theme of « top blanket. Look, they're making a mistake here. They don't use the Mossos to oppose the Barcelona Assembly. If they want to oppose the Barcelona Assembly, they do; but leave the moves alone. On the subject of the "top manta", the Mossos obviously have to act within their competitions and within the law, with this we agree. Now, coordination with the Urban Guard; but not in Barcelona: Barcelona, Badalona and everything. Because the theme of the "top manta, which first has to organize in a municipality the actions to prevent and cure this phenomenon is the Urban Guard, and, therefore, the Mossos have to act in collaboration with the Urban Guard. And, as you do not recall the idea of working with the Urban Guard, we will not vote in favour of it. And why behind this point there is his opposition to the Barcelona Assembly, which have made the "top manta, unfortunately, a populist and demagogic use. And, therefore, we will not encourage this use of criminalization of the debate of the 'top manta', which we are also concerned about. And, finally, the last point about the acts of the Mossos, his complaint paper, in court, etcetera. Look, we don't share the foundation of what you mean, we don't share it. Here, in this country, which has carried out an initiative of tightening of penalties and repression is the People's Party, with the law bite and the changes in the Penal Code, which have held our vote against; and you were the only party – the only –, only, with your absolute majority in Madrid, that have voted these initiatives. Therefore, we defend that police action on the street must prevent the rights and freedoms of citizens: the right to freedom, the right to demonstration and the right to freedom of expression, always in a security_mark. Because you are very concerned about the « top blanket, you are very concerned about the young Catalan who occupies spaces that have no other purpose, but, in change, about the people of Panama who have stolen in full, you do not talk about it. They make motions for these issues, which does affect the security of the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.11.0	Mr. Nuet...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.12.0	...I can assure you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.13.0	...has run out of time. Next, the words of Mr Lluís Guinó, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.14.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, honourable Members, this motion, even if it should be a motion that, for reasons of security, should be..., or should be, above all, consensual – in fact, the different positions of the parliamentary groups have been exposed up to now, and, certainly, there is a relative coincidence in different aspects – what I wanted to say, in the first place, is that this is a motion in which the Group of Joints for the Yes presented certain items and some of them accepted. Therefore, I also want to say that the final result of accepting these items, in a way, justifies a Joint Positioning for the Yes in certain questions that are not necessarily coincident with all those of the motioner. Therefore, it is not a motion made by the People's Party and that the other parliamentary groups, somehow, join us, but it is the People's Party that accepts certain points in certain questions which, moreover, are shared by different parliamentary groups. And we're going to come to terms with what you're afraid of, because it seems important to me that I'm clear. There was the first point, which is a slogan accepted by the People's Party, which refers to the security plan. The security plan is drafted, it is practically finished, and what it is about, certainly, is to implement it as long as the presuppositional availabilities, for a band, and the same planning of the Interior Department allow these measures to be implemented; but the security plan exists, as is the document. And, therefore, what we propose is that this point can be approved with maximum consent. Certainly, it is a document that is open to all contributions that can be made by parliamentary groups, and that would be particularly interesting if parliamentary groups reviewed the plan and made their contributions. Another important aspect of this young man is points 2 and 3, which are what we reject. And we will reject them, basically, for a matter that has to do with a presuppositional and economic issue. It is clear that more squadron moves are needed; it is the government's commitment to convene new squadron seats, but it is also obvious – and this is what we ask for from Juntes for Yes the understanding of the other parliamentary groups – that there are certain things that can only be done if there are assumptions. It is, from my point of view, incongruous to ask for an increase in certain presuppositional parties, if one is not willing to approve some presuppositions. Points 2 and 3 are questions that have to do with presuppositional politics, Mr Coscubiela, yes, yes. It can't be asked... – I'm telling you this because I've heard the remorse of your voice and I'm responding directly to it. (Founding voice) Ah! You talk about Barça, fantastic; but we're talking about security and it's more serious than talking about Barça. (Whispering) I say to them: assumptions, measures and nine summonses with approved assumptions; without approved assumptions and with presuppositions presuppositions cannot be done. And that's why we reject these two points of this motion, for purely presuppositional reasons. And, we believe that when a parliamentary group makes a proposal that has a presuppositional effect, it must be willing to negotiate assumptions and, more importantly, to approve them at a certain time. For what he does to long guns, it's a matter of what I'm celebrating that there's a certain coincidence between most parliamentary groups. We understand that the use of long weapons, at a certain time, has already come to an end; that the perception of society respects this question has been sufficiently accepted, but we also understand that the use of long weapons only has to be brought to an end in exceptional situations, in extraordinary situations and under certain guarantees that will certainly be articulated through the protocols, as the Socialist Party Member has said. Guarantees and protocols: basic and phonental. And, in later term, two questions – because I have a long time left – that make reference to the « top manta, to the questions that make reference to intensifying the pocket of the Mossos d'Esquadra in the question of « top manta. I would like not to miss the occasion to consider that the problem of « top blanket is not just a police problem. The question of the « top blanket in a strictly repressive vessant cannot be solved. There's a social issue behind, there's a question... – thank you; Mr. Coscubiela gives me [[remorse of the voice]] ...you're telling me that very well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.15.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.16.0	Who's set? - Who's set? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you; in fact, with Nuet we usually coincide. Well, the question is that we really consider that the ‘top manta, only with questions of falling police, will not be solved. And we understand that from a more cross-cutting and interdepartmental perspective we are likely to solve the question of the "top blanket". I, in later term, for what it does to the waiver of actions – and I finish –, sure...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.17.0	Mr. Guinó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.18.0	Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.19.0	He's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.20.0	So, what he's doing with the waiver of shares, he's accepted the message we presented, and Juntes' plan for yes is to do the waiver of shares when the prosecution's action already defends the interests...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.21.0	That time has run out, Mr. Guinó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.22.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.23.0	To fix his position, has the word Ms. Mirea Vehi, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.24.0	Well, good morning. We are voting against it; it could not be otherwise. We understand that this motion, along with concrete measures or concrete actions, is a totally ideological position in terms of security, a position of what we are in the antipodes. I'll explain. There is a lot of emphasis on crimes related to keeping, stealing and stealing assets, etc. Of course, to us, they worry a lot more about crimes like the "papers of Panama", which the deputy said; the plot Gürtel... – which I carry photos because the deputy carried them the other day–, the plot Gürtel, which seems to me to know what is going on, or envelopes, the case Bárcenas. So, say, we seem pretty hypocritical to say that crime and security are petty crimes or street sales crimes. Keeping versus bankers, we could say. You know, we're ideologically very opposed. As for moving places, of course, we have one of the highest police rates in Europe. In fact, they ask this, in this young man, even though this was already approved by the Committee on the Interior; a 4.5-move-per-inhabitant ratio was approved in the last legislature. Of course, this seems to us stratospheric. If we look at police statistics of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, the last ones that have been stuck to the website of the department, 85_percent of the crimes are of assets, of the crimes in which the police intervened and, obviously, of the crimes of assets there are thefts and thefts on a small scale, let's say. So, he's chasing the thief and stealing on a small scale, and it's a waste that we're arresting them full of poor people. Of course, we place the plot of conflict much more in inequality and difference in terms of class than in police presence. According to our point of view, there are no teachers, there are no teachers and there are no social educators, for a question of security. Of course, then you ask for weapons, long guns. Yesterday the counselor came out here explaining that we would buy or that we already have subfuses of new_millimeters, short guns, long guns. I've been looking at it... of course, we've got everything, huh? Granades stun, water launch trucks, we have weapons for impulse and projection of captive pilots, fumigated artifacts and tears. Of course, you're asking for more weapons. We ask for training in human rights, we ask for dissolution of the mobile brigade, we ask for dissolution of the units that are dedicated to public order... You see, they look very different. For us, security is a term of many dimensions, a very complex term, linked to the well-being of people, much beyond the criminalization of political dissent, much beyond the criminalization of rights and freedoms. For us, security is what's being done today by the people of "We're holding the CIEs in front of the internment center of the Free Zone, which is chaining up because this internment center never opens again. Yeah, by security. For us, security is what happened yesterday in Sabadell, when sixty Nazis were planted before the social center of L'Obrera, and the collectivities and organizations of the city responded solidly with the anti-feixist criterion. For us, this is security. You got it, huh? , that his model of security..., between his and ours there is an abyss. In fact, speaking of his party, and apart from what happens to the Valencian country, apart from all this Gürtel plot, – that I suppose they already have all the information, because let's say that the issue is propitious, it is familiar, but if you want, we can pass it on to them – apart from that, we also want to remember what happens to the Valencian country when you govern, that the Nazis live with impunity, terrorizing not only the left, but all the people of the Valencian country. Therefore, we, the only one left to say is that we would vote against it, and that it would not happen, now and always. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.25.0	To pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr Alberto Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.26.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Counselor, I hadn't greeted you before. To thank the groups these days for the debate, by which it has been possible to reach a number of consensuses, by accepting the amendment 1 and 6 of Junts pel Yes and by trading 4 and 5 with Junts pel Si and Ciutadans, and that much of the spirit of the Socialist Group's proposals are incorporated. I will start with the representative of the CUP, who clearly has an abyss between her model and ours, because you have no security model. And it is true that you have no model, because you have shown it yourself throughout your intervention. And correct him: the 4.5 cops per thousand inhabitants is not from Mossos, it is of all the cops who act in Catalonia. About Catalonia's intervention Yes, it's Pot, don't worry, Mr. Hyde won't come out, don't worry, but about Panama there is..., it has to be investigated. I don't think it's a question of the Government of Catalonia, but it is true that, look, I've tried to look for the law gag in the BOE and I haven't found it, so I don't know how to discuss this with you, because I think it's a law that doesn't exist and therefore I can't tell you what I think about a law that doesn't exist. And on the City Hall of Barcelona, we do not oppose the City Hall of Barcelona; the mayor herself opposes herself, and if we demand that the Mossos d'Esquadra act, it is because she has failed her duties, letting the « top blanket camp its wide for Barcelona. If you want, then, when you finish at one o'clock this plenary session, we take a tour of the centre of Barcelona and you will see today's big difference three, four or five years ago, as is the centre of Barcelona with the theme of the « top blanket. It is true that point 4 is the one that has generated the most debate, which was that of the use or not of long weapon by the Mossos d'Esquadra, but it is not social alarm; the alarm is given because we are at a level 4 of security and therefore the risk situation is latent and permanent; even the police unions themselves, not only from Mossos, but from local police, are asking to be able to use the long weapon in the public security patrol. It is the professionals themselves who are asking for it, so it is not a matter of social alarm. Jihadist terrorism does not warn, and the value it gives to life is zero and, therefore, the measures must be forceful. What justifies some measures? I explain it to you: Brussels, London, Paris, Madrid, Boston, New York, Pakistan, Syria, Nigeria, Egypt and a few more countries. This is what causes the alarm to take what measures and take seriously what jihadist terrorism is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.27.0	We call for a vote; for now, we are calling for a vote. (Founding voice) Why ask me the word, Mr. Guinó?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.28.0	To ask for the separate vote from all points, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.29.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.30.0	Thank you. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.31.0	The vote was called separately from all points. So, we'll start by voting all points separately. And we'll start voting for number one, for point number one. Okay? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. It was approved by 124 votes to 10, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for number two. The vote begins. It was approved by 124 votes to 10, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for number three. The vote begins. It was rejected by 63 votes to 71, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number four. The vote begins. It was approved by 108 votes to 10, with 16 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number five. The vote begins. It was approved by 113 votes to 21, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number six. The vote begins. It was approved by 113 votes to 21, with no abstentions. [[Some applause.]] The next item on the agenda is the following question to the Government on the reduction of student enrolments in universities and the precarious work of the teaching and research staff and the administration and service staff, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the decrease in student enrolments in universities and the precarious work of teaching and research staff and administrative staff and services]] [[302-000020/11]] To expose her, Mr. Joan Giner has the word. [[Widow's remorse.]] We ask for silence, please, so we can start.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.32.0	Many good morning to everyone, president, deputies, deputies... First of all, I think it is important that we do, from here on, a greeting to students and students from Catalan universities, because they have had an initiative that I think we need to share the majority – say the majority, perhaps not all – from the chamber, that is the initiative to refer the 3+2 to the universities; a reference that makes it possible to create this critical consciousness that makes it possible to make the study or the social university not only a machine to create knowledge, but also a tool that makes it possible to politicize, that makes it possible to create this critical consciousness that makes it possible for the study or the social university to not only be a machine to create knowledge, but also to generate the power to generate energy. And it's that some of us don't understand university only as a machine to create workers, and, less, precarious workers, but we understand university as a machine to create brilliant minds, capable of transforming the reality that surrounds us, and it's the magic of this student movement, this thing that brings more, this added value – that they like to use very much – which brings, say, this movement. And lastly, to finish this greeting, to hear that the movements are connected and that now in France there are camps in place, that many remember us, this air, that of 2011, of a May 15, and from here a great greeting because it is the student movement, also, in this case the French, that has declared himself in vacant in solidarity. Congratulations also to the Observatory of the University System, these teachers and organizational teachers who have given us data and study on how the university is doing – is an information that we have been able to use to generate this young man, that we will set you up now –; the PAS and PDI unions, that have collaborated with him, as well as the student unions, that have helped us in the final drafting. And lastly, we congratulate the willingness of, in this case, all the parliamentary groups, to congratulate him, of the PSC's companies, to which we have accepted many of the papers; of Together for the Yes, which has been very concerned and very much about this movement, or the CUP's companies, with whom we have worked since the beginning, in the writing of this young man, without leaving me the PP and Citizen, that we have been able, too, to deal and we have been able to reach profound agreements ; this willingness to be able to work because this does not end in water of drunkards, but in something real. And speaking of the young man himself, I will not repeat myself in many things that we said in the inquiry, we are not here to waste time. We have reached a strong agreement that a report on how the university finances itself; we want to know exactly how the student credits prices are calculated, of this teaching load, and we want to know exactly which teaching load applies to the teacher in this school, because we understand that there are a lot of teachers who don't devote all their hours to teaching, but also to research, and what we want to say exactly that for the school we give of Law 14/2012, of the Spanish State. We think we need to lower the numbers, and that's something we haven't come to an agreement with everyone. We understand the idea of social pricing, but we also understand that the materials have risen between a 60 and a 290_per_cent. And, yes, we are counting the model change in Bolonya, but for many Bolonya it was a breath of material and a little more, in reality; all the promises they made to us at that time were not fulfilled, and we say that in the last five or six years we have had such a breath that we believe that what it is to start reversing them, always – and it is a very important thing – tending to the gratuity of these materials, as many European countries, because we understand university as a social service that gives..., a public service that gives to all society and not as a service apart. Finally, and finally, we have to start talking about degrees and masters. For us, from the course you see, there should be no difference in price between degrees and masters, and this would ensure that any student, who has come from revenge, can safely pursue his professional career. And from here, a greeting to Mercè, which is one of the readmitted workers of Chapter VI of Autonome, who won his judgment a little while ago, and one more case that demonstrates how Chapter VI of Autonome is ‘sick with irregularities, is ‘sick with precariousness, and what we are asking is that the Government initiates an investigation and resolves this disagreement in the contracting of Chapter VI of Autonome. What is more, to thank the parliamentary groups again for their willingness to speak, and that is why they demand that they support the motion. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.33.0	Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word the Lord Antoni Castellà, of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.34.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, from Juntes per el Si we also believe that we should have a debate in this short time on the university system, the Catalan university system, which is still one of the world's reference systems; we are a country with 7_million inhabitants– with 7_million inhabitants–, which, in the last few years of universities less than fifty years old, has three universities among the first hundred in the world. Yesterday, there was another race in which we have, from the public set, five of the first hundred in Europe. Without having been and with 7_million inhabitants, this means searching. But I left'mfer a reference, entering already to Deputy Giner, at some of the reflections; I want to divide into three blocks. In the first place, in the first, second, third and fourth points, we are talking about what is the balance between the student's contribution and public support, and in the debate – and we will already enter it at the moment – whether the teaching quality can be disconnected from the research quality of our faculty: a university that simply does not do a research teaching ceases to be a quality university, it ceases to be, automatically, and the teaching ability of a teacher is also its research capacity. But in any of the cases we are, of course, willing to support the fact that it is a transparent gift to what is calculated by the public and private contribution, all say, ladies and gentlemen, that there has already been a complaint and that there is a feeling on the side of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia that, analyzing the costs, says, the judgment – certainly of June 5, 2014 – says: "The contribution of the students is 20_percent of the cost. And that's the feeling on hold: 20_percent of the cost. Therefore, we have a system, as it should be, public, subsidized in 80_per_cent. Now, in points 3 and 4, we can't agree, the approach is to return to the 2011 price. And, in principle, this Member and in the name of Junts for the Yes we should say, of course, that we can agree with the philosophy that any public service does not have any cost to the city. But, in 2011, what we set up is the sustainability of the university system and the search for our country. You yourself said in 2011: "Scoltin, you can't just make retail policies. And we agreed. And, therefore, we thought of a part in tickets. But how did we do it? Because the honourable Members have made it clear: Catalonia is only a few places in Europe where the fees are social, the prices are for rent. And, therefore, surprisingly, what is being raised here today is to lower the price to the high returns of this country. That I made myself clear. I can hear the support of the PP, and I can hear it, of Ciutadans. It is more, when we made the price-for-income system, the pressure of this one who is now a deputy, who at the time was secretary of universities, came from the neoliberal sector, saying: "You are making double taxation. But at that time we could not simply align the prices: high returns have to pay more, in a income redistribution system in which you lower them down. Fixi's, 6,500 students, in 2011, when taxes were pushed, they'd cut the price to half. How did we do it? With the entrances of the higher renders. Therefore, I want us to remain aware in this House today that if this moves forward, the price of 6,500 students is at risk, because to lower the prices to high yields there will be no income redistribution system. And let the students of this country know that 6,500 students, if this comes forward, will have to pay twice as much as they paid so far. And, therefore, it costs a lot to hear what is the social understanding behind this proposal. [[Some applause.]] I've devoted most of the time... with the rest of the points, on the 5th and 6th and 3+2 we'll have more debate. I believe that what we have to respect are the agreements of the Interuniversity Council. Certainly – little known – the famous decree 3+2 – for Members who are not in the field – say nothing; say that when Madrid decided now it decides Catalonia. Surprisingly, some groups say that this is what they want to stop. It's the only one that says, "What I defined before Madrid, only 4+1, the decree says, "Now do you, an autonomous community, what you want. And it turns out that, also surprisingly, some groups...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.35.0	Mr. Castellà...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.36.0	... they say: "I reject it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.37.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.38.0	From here, in any of the cases, we will only mention that in point 7 we will vote in favour, in point 8 we will vote in favour and in point 9 we will vote against, because I would represent, too, now that we are talking about filling in deficits, an increase of expenditure of 144_millions. Thank you, Madam President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.39.0	Next, the words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.40.0	Well, thank you, President. Thanks to the group proposing and to the interventions that have preceded us, because they pose many elements of debate on the table. We'll announce that we'll give support to the young lady. And when we came to the concrete articulation, on the first point, to us it seemed, therefore, very relevant, and yesterday we remembered, that there is already a motion that compromises, from this Parliament, but we could still deepen, on the information about how it is being applied and what effects they have on prices, taxes and above all the scholarships in this access to the university. The government is very satisfied, and it reminds us every time that it can, therefore, of the equity scholarship system. Yesterday the councillor defended it; today the former secretary of Universities and deputy of Juntes for the Yes has made it, according to which, therefore, the 40_percent of the people who are receiving the scholarship is the 40_percent that needs it and the 60_percent that is not receiving it is the 60_percent that has to pay what we have to pay for today, so we made it pay for it. Let us doubt, of this data, of this complacency that the system is social and it's just because who has more pay and who doesn't have a scholarship is that it doesn't have to. Yesterday, therefore, we were able to talk to the deputy of Juntes for the Yes, we were able to expose him, for example, the case of people who are family pages who, as he has an income, can no longer access this scholarship, and he has some land that they do not give him tickets because it is a potential, precisely, and, in change, he does not have access to the scholarship, because there is this income limit. We, therefore, this first point, which is to know well the effect of the scholarship system on correcting these prices, seems relevant to us. Effectively, points 2, 3 and 9 are the foot points, the thick points of the motion, because they are the ones that have the presuppositional charge. We'll give it support, because some are related to others. If we lower materials we make the university accessible. It's what we were defending yesterday. It is the university, therefore, that had held some prices until it began to implant the prices. And, therefore, returning to that situation seems correct to us. And obviously, therefore, if the entrances of the subjects were to fall, they would have to cover with the assumptions of the universities, not leave the assumptions of the universities discovered with this fall of entrances for the subjects. Point 4, obviously, is a strategic objective, tending to free education. The fiveth point is what we were defending yesterday from this same Faristol, it is an agreement of the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia, to go to the confluence of prices of degrees and masters, but if it has the rank of parliamentary agreement, it reinforces it. On the sixth point, we agree with the map. To the point set, on the places of functioning, it is obvious, therefore, that here what we are talking about is not, therefore, to whom it corresponds..., to which the professional of the university will be assigned, but basically that the creation of PDI in many cases has served to precarise the conditions of the university staff, in the case, therefore, for example, of the false associates; it is people, therefore, that the contract of association is created because the university has no way of..., or will or way of creating other forms, and it is a precarious form, right? The associate was designed for an external collaborator, someone who is a professional in a very specific area, and who, besides, makes a few hours at the university, but today they are giving to people, so that obviously there is no other job, because there is a 20_per_cent of work in some sectors and are, therefore, entering the university through the associates. In the case of the Autonomous University, therefore, which speaks more concretely, therefore, it seems to us very correct that it is necessary to take a little light. And finally, on the eighth point, we agree as it stood. We did not agree with the initial wording: to close the one-day fix for the other of the universities..., of these universities to which it is worth referring, meant to leave the Open University of Catalonia and the University of Vic to the discovery, and there are two universities, in concrete terms, that fulfill an important function in our society and in the order of the university studies in our country, eh? Studying in català online is only possible through the UOC and the University of Vic does a job, obviously, of articulating in the territory, of articulating the territory. And finally, the incorporation of the point that Ciutadans has proposed about single-parent families, so it also seems correct to us, so we see no reason to vote against the other points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.41.0	Next, there is the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.42.0	Thank you, thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we must thank the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is possible to present this motion for a theme that I do not know if to define as a little opaque or transparent, because it is a theme that is not usually spoken of in the Parliament of Catalonia, and therefore goes unnoticed and is positive that we speak of it. And the other day we had news – the other day we had news – that said that Catalan universities are the best of all Spain, of the conjunct of Spain. I believe that this is good news for which we must congratulate ourselves and, above all, we must congratulate those responsible for it. But, of course, we can ask ourselves – we can ask ourselves –: if Parliament does not devote much attention to this issue and Catalan universities are the best, then we can extrude two conclusions or two hypotheses. The first is the confirmation of the liberal principle, according to which the less the administration puts its hand in the face of society, the society is better. And the other one is that the Secretary of Universities, therefore, has done a good job. So, if the first hypothesis is the right one, we have to regret the interventionist turn that the government is making of the left hand and the CUP. If the second hypothesis is the right one, then perhaps we could ask ourselves if its holder did not deserve more than a presidency of a parliamentary commission. In any case, having good universities is great news because knowledge will be the key factor in the economy you see. The crisis has presented us with a grueling economy, living from inertia, living from external factors, structural formations, little competitive. So, to gain competitiveness, we've only been able to do something short of an internal devaluation. It was the only way to gain competitiveness in the very short term, but in the medium and long term we can only be competitive by betting on knowledge and betting on innovation. We can't and don't want to compete at a low level: we have to compete with knowledge, we have to compete with innovation, we have to compete with creativity; it's to say, with a first-rate university and with excellent professional training. In this young man, what we ask is what we have asked in other questions in the past. And, to begin with, let's focus on our 3+2 commitment. It's funny, because this was a claim from all of society and all of the Catalan political parties, less you. But, everybody. Now, the PP approves it, and then everyone's against it. But it is the best academic formula to adapt to international levels, to adapt to the needs of the market. Clearly, the problem is financing – the problem is financing. So, actually, we, as we did with a motion that we already presented in the previous legislature, because we did care about this question, what we ask is..., and what we asked is that the fourth course..., the first master course costs the same as the degree courses, as did the Generality. In 2012, in the midst of an economic storm, the Government of Spain approved flexibility in the cost of university studies and that it was each community that decided where to set prices. And, therefore, the Generalitat with a sovereign decision, with a decision after being held for the Republican Left of Catalonia put the highest priests of all Spain. And that's not what the People's Party said, that's what the Chief Executive Officer of Youth in committee said the other day, she says, "That's it, as all the reports point out. They say, "We can't do anything else. So look, there are other autonomous communities with a financial situation similar to that of Catalonia, such as the Valencian Community, which has a 30_per_cent lower university rank than Catalonia. And why don't you just stay out of it and I'll give you some data so I can illustrate it. Medicine, for example, in Catalonia costs 2,370_euros; in the Valencian Community, 1,490. Dret, in Catalonia, 1,516; in Valencia, 1,176. Therefore, we think that the time has come to lower the university priests – the time has come. And what we've done is a deal, we've come to do it in a possible way. And we have lowered, not returning to the year 2011, but for the moment lower a 30_per_cent and, therefore, go more or less to what the Valencian Community does. Let's see what every game votes today. Let's see where each u is located. You'll see if the Popular Unity Candidate loses his virginity after giving us so many lessons to the university world on this issue, or we'll see if he leaves the government behind. But, lords and lords of the government, as that Castilian refrany, castellane, says, that this miserable pamphlet, therefore, criticizes: "You wanted it, Brother Mosten; you wanted it, you have it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.43.0	Next, has the word Mr. Joan García, from Ciutadans. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.44.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, after speaking to Mr Fernando, giving a creativity to intervention is complicated, but I will start with an important fact. Mr. Giner, you and this young man have made me become a little bit of a memory and nostalgia of the university, because there is a series of demands that you have long lived in our society, in our university world. The fact is, this has a double reading. For one thing, that the university kept him and the university world kept these claims alive, that's a positive thing; and another negative thing is that we couldn't find solutions for these claims. And so, many years ago, there were governments of all kinds and they left their group that were ruling and I think they couldn't solve these problems. So, for one thing, so, well, this double reading and this nostalgia that I appreciate being able to find. I will also tell you that, with respect, after saying the positive things, I will tell you that there is a risk of uncertainty in this proposal. On the one hand, it goes from the more ideological and general proposal, which has a certain demagogic touch – we have to say – to very concrete things that include university autonomy, as we have at point 7, at point 7.2. I believe that this last point can cause certain problems or there may have been certain problems for problems that pose and that we cannot solve directly, but it is obvious that with the modifications, therefore, we will give support. We also believe that a good part of this young man only believes that you are in opposition, and obviously, you know perfectly well that if you are ruling these are measures that you would not implement or try never to implement. Or at least they wouldn't do it without leaving a major hole in the generality's finances, even though they've shown that they can do one thing and another, and the second they did it a few years ago, and, in fact, we're still paying a good share of the trilateral's debts. We're running out of college model proposals. We are missing proposals that we would support, such as the depoliticization of the university, because it is no longer used as a tool for building long-term party relations. We can, therefore, clearly point out that there are two models: there is its model and our model; but, well, we can say that part of the problems that you have also raised or are cyclical, systemic problems and that we, therefore, have to correct them, therefore, we have tried to work in a general proposal. It is also true that these systemic problems lead us to ask for another time that we need to talk about, we need to go into a debate about many of the points that are raised here: price, it was also about equity between price of degrees and masters. I think we need to talk about this, but we need to talk in a more general debate, don't we? We see university as the center of a wider system, a wider knowledge system, together with other parts of the system, such as search centres or the transfer centre. A system that, in fact, must be the basis of the change in the production system in which we are, and a real formula for working against precariousness, which is the basis, unfortunately, of the current Spanish production system – and, obviously, català. Therefore, the university cannot be a winged, closed or rigid institution, but must be a part of a global system, and a global system of solutions; and it must be a university of quality, we must never forget: of quality and open. I don't think we're on the same line here. But it is obvious that there is a reality, and that is that we have the... – they have already said it here – the most expensive materials and taxes of all Spain, and that we need to correct. And, therefore, it is for this reason that I think we have found a way to agree on a series of points. We can't vote in favour of points 4 and 5, because we believe, let's say again, that... well, we can't give support to an economically inviable university model, that we think it's inviable and that it goes far from our idea of a quality and global university. We want to be responsible and not generate future cohesion mortgages, because we want to rule in a future. So we don't want to say things that we can't take over. And we'll do it now and we'll always do it in this Parliament. For the rest of the time, we've already said we've agreed, we'll support them. And we appreciate that point 10, where we have introduced this change, that single-parent families can have the same bonuses that the families named, therefore, can approve. So, after this, I think we're going to have a price reduction for the year you're going to learn...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.45.0	Mr. García...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.46.0	...a better...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.47.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.48.0	... – I finish, Madam President – better working conditions, better financing and more improvement. So, I don't think the outcome is bad at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.49.0	Next, the words of Mr Pol Gibert, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.50.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Today we have to debate a topic that is vital for thousands of people and, as has been said in this chamber, a topic that often does not arise in this Parliament. It's a theme that, five years ago, is in the mouth of many young people who don't see in college access a solution of the future for them. And not because it's not a quality training, which is often given to our educational system, but because, frankly, sometimes they can't access it. And as much as we have data – and the former secretary of universities has not said any before – we have cases, so we have cases, that we know all of us first and foremost what we are younger and have company to study, so we can prove it directly. And I'll be a very personal case, because it also shows a little how the situation is at these times. I finished my career in 2008; I paid 600_euros, roughly, each course. Three years of diplomacy: 1.800_euros. So, right now, a student can pay 1,800_euros for a single course, with which thing, triples his career price. I mean, that's a reality. I mean, that's what we'll find on the street, and we'll find any young man who can talk to you about it, right? We find ourselves in a moment..., with a perfect storm; with a labor market that does not absorb the young talent, because it does not find out, and in a moment where people seek refuge in formation and neither can they access it many times. We believe, therefore, that we find a context of economic exile as we are living these days. This young man who's trying to do it is freaking out some urgent fires that the university has. We see how, mainly, it attacks the issue of precarious staff, which has to be commented on in this Parliament, and also the urgent issue of taxes, which is an obvious factor that conditions university access. But we also believe that, apart from the fears of the young man, we need to talk deeply about what we want to do with our university. Let's talk about a finance model, which is tangentially spoken about in this young man. We need to talk about how we work together in research and teaching, a vital theme for the future of our educational system. We obviously need to talk about whether we want a completely free system, a system of futures that can be like this, as it is to other European countries. We need to talk – and this is a subject that Parliament needs to tackle – about the practices and the fellows that our university produces, a system of labour exploitation, directly, that even more precarious the work of young people. For what it does to the papers that have worked in this resolution, in this motion, to say that..., to give thanks also to the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and to Companion Giner, that has not accepted many, that have worked together these last few days, right? , and that they have been, in the case of the PSC, extendedly collected by the final motion. To say, above all, that we vote in favour of this motion because we believe that it affects urgent problems that cannot be spent any longer without dealing. One, the subject of taxes. Even though it is, as the motion finally retreats, a 30_per_cent, we believe that it is already a sign to the outside world of what this Parliament wants to do, of which it wants to make a lot of people from this chamber, that it is trying to allege the pressure that families and students have had that depend on their butxaca to access the university system. And also because we have clean cases in which we see students studying one year, the next stop studying to work and gather more resources to continue studying, and this, in a system of a 21st century country, a developed country, and that we want to emmiralate in European countries, is simply intolerable. And the other – because it's a topic that we also have to deal with and we think we need to flag on our own years – is the issue of how we pre-characterize our faculty. If we want a quality system, with teachers and teachers who are European-level references, what we cannot do is make precarious contracts, where we all know that there are highly qualified teachers, with foreign students, with all kinds of curricula, with brutal experience, and we are paying them four hard and miserable. And, it's more, sometimes we need so much effort in teaching to try to survive, they have to leave their careers in search parked during the coming years. So, we think this guy is necessary, it's very timely, and we think he's a bunch of ingenious to start working on the college model in front of his own years. Let us hope that this Parliament can do this and talk about it in depth and in depth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.51.0	To pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr. Joan Giner, of Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.52.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, first, thank for some interventions, in this case the company of the CUP, the Albert Botran, and the Pol, of the PSC. I really share many of his interventions and believe that we can continue to work on this topic in the future. Responsive to the company of Junts for the Yes, we have, say... First, we do not want to separate research doctrine, no– no. Or, of course, we understand that a good teaching is connected to a good research. Now, we're talking about the concrete calculation of the teaching charges, aren't we? Why do we understand each other, huh? Why don't you... And on the subject of tariffing, here we have a political model conflict. That is to say, the good intention or good words that you use are: "Let's do a social fee to the university, right? I mean, who uses it, who pays it, right? This looks like, say, it's a public model... it's a model that's not really public, it's a model that's like concerted. We believe in social pricing, and we have said it many times as a parliamentary group, in a progressive tax system, much more progressive than the current one, and on which Coscubiela himself made proposals to the Vice-President of the Economy because that was so. For us, this is the model. So, here we can be arguing, in the future, as we do. That's why we're proposing the downgrading and we don't think it's the end of the university system, honestly. And respect..., the theme of university autonomy, to the company of Ciutadans, we believe that university autonomy, well, is relative, because respecting university autonomy at the time that there is a 20_percent of contracts under law to the Autonomous, therefore, is to play with the precariousness of many people dient« No, no; university autonomy. In this case the Government has the obligation, and much more, to enter and be part of the solution of the problem. You were talking about the tripartite. Do you know where I was the day they dislodged the president of the UB, the year 2008, of Bolonya? From the back, and I'm going to get caught flushing my hair. So I didn't tell me about the king's tripartite. No, count, or go on, it was a study at that time, and the demands at that time are the ones on this young man. Because you see it. I'm talking about depoliticizing universities. No, no, No, no, no, never – never. We want a university full of politics, full of critical minds, full of consciousness, we want a university full of colors and not a grey one that is only dedicated to developing square workers and which, above all, is found with a precarious market. The university as a tool of freedom and social transformation and not as a machine to generate precarious workers. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.53.0	Call it a vote. [[Pause.]] Mr. Castellà, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.54.0	For a separate vote on points 3, 4, 5 and 9.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.55.0	Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.56.0	Request separate vote also from point 4, on one side; 5, 6 and 8, on the other. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.57.0	The vote was called separately from points 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 and 9. So, we'll start by voting point number 3, I'll finish with 9, and then we'll vote the rest of the vote, okay? [[Pause.]] Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.58.0	Yes; on the subject of separate votes. I understand that the 4th and 5th is already voted separately...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.59.0	Yes; vote separately...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.60.0	...but not together...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.61.0	...the 3, the 4, the 5...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.62.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.63.0	...the 6, the 8 and the 9, and after the rest of the young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.64.0	Perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.65.0	And we'll start by voting point number three. The others, all..., and in the end the rest. The vote begins – we vote on point 3. It was approved by 73 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number four. The vote begins. It was rejected by 37 votes to 61, with 36 abstentions. No – I'm sorry – I was wrong: 36 votes in favour, 61 against and 37 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number five. The vote begins. It was rejected by 37 votes to 72, with 25 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number six. The vote begins. It was approved by 123 votes to 11, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. It was approved by 123 votes to 11, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 9. The vote begins. It was approved by 72 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was approved by 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion following the question to the Government on the National Council for Culture and the Arts]] [[302-00021/11]] The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on the National Council for Culture and the Arts, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mr. Rafel Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.66.0	Madam President... Ladies and gentlemen, this motion which I present and defend, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, intended and seeks to bring to Parliament, to debate, three issues, three questions which, from our point of view, are basic, they are fundamental, they are transcendent and structural for the cultural policies of our country. In the first place, about the National Council of Culture and Arts. The transaction that we have signed agrees to create, first of all, a working group within the Committee on Culture to analyze and reflect on the model of the Conca, and second place, and very important for us, guarantees that before the end of the year the Parliament will have a draft law amending Law 6/2008, of May 13, of the Conca. This means – and we rejoice, and I think I interpret the will and opinion of the majority, or of the totality of the parliamentary groups – that we value the import of the Conca as an indispensable instrument for the service of the culture of our country, of the culture of Catalonia, and the need to give it more, to give it more prominence; if they want, using words of the same Conca in one of their reports, "to review it, to review the Conca, "to strengthen it. Therefore, we are happy to have brought this subject to Parliament and I think we have been able to..., we can be at the door of a first great agreement in cultural matters on such a transcendent subject, as important, as the instrument it represents, and which must represent much more, the National Council of Culture and Arts to our country. Secondly, we also wanted to consider the need to have a planning of artistic and cultural teachings, i.e., of compulsory teaching, but also of secondary, university and non-regulated teachings. What we finally put to the vote is that this planning is due to the end, and it is also fixed a deadline because it is present in Parliament before this year 2016. No one knows that this is a very important theme, a cross-cutting theme, in which, among others, but especially, the necessary coordination between the Councils of Education and Culture. And, in this sense, I also want to point out two aspects: firstly, that the parliamentary groups, I do not know whether we have already agreed, but, in any case, we have pre-recorded, Mrs Rigau, that this issue is dealt with through a common work which will have to be completed in the proper days, but, in any case, a work in common with the committees of Education and Culture of this Parliament. And secondly, we also believe that the role that Conca can play in the definition and planning of artistic and cultural teachings is important, especially in the light of what was commented on by its president, Mr. Duarte, at the last appearance to the Committee on Culture, who were preparing, to finish, a report, precisely, on artistic and cultural teachings. And the third issue that we want to raise in the plenary of this Parliament is the need to address the whole question of tax treatment and to have new forms for tax treatment of culture. And also in this sense about referring to the Conca, with its report« Thirty-six proposals for the improvement of the professional condition in the world of culture, a report we believe to be excellent– excellent– excellent– for us, but also, I believe, for the rest of the country, in which it analyses, from the tax, labour, contractual and format point of view, this question and makes a series of proposals, concretely, thirty-six. It is true that there are fundamental questions about which we do not have competences, the State has them: reduction, the need to reduce cultural VAT, the Law of mecenatge, the Law of intellectual property, or raise the themes derived from the IRPF or the social security of artists and creators. But the report of the Conca also indicates, also says that in the framework of our competitions there is scope, we have opportunities to do things to work and to promote policies for the benefit of our creators, the artist, the creator and the cultural entrepreneur. So, I just said that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.67.0	Mr. Bruguera, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.68.0	Yes, I finish, Madam President, by asking for the affirmative vote on this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.69.0	Next, he has the word, to defend the papers presented, the lady Mireia Boya, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Cry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.70.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. On the basis that et Conca we do not consider him an independent organ, that he represents the interests of this highly mercantilized cultural industry and that he is naumentally politicized, as much peth PSC as for Convergence and Union. This is why there is no representation of the working classes, of the working classes of this culture, even though defence was a popular culture, it was a basic culture as a basic universal right; in short, as a social right. Cau rethink eth Conca, I will obviously want him. You've heard of our petitions, which we'll present to you before this motion is initiated. We did not want, in any way, the proposed autonomists, to have that short flight, to have that after this Parliament in which we are being set up, after the present trial, to have that we are sufficient, and that at best it was an initial motion that was to be..., to have, to have content and to avoid it was its own direct responsibility of the Socialist Party of Catalonia in relation to the shortcomings that it intended to attack in this motion. It is not self-criticism, it is not, and therefore, it is important that we present anauen in a hearing, that the authorities do not vote against your proposal which we find to be cynical. All this... like CUP we like to talk about right now, so we've got to deal two points. Eth first relates to him now planning artistic teachings, of all, because what is lacking is that he hears part of the teachings that are not kept in compa en planning deth Conca, as for example eth my deth circus, that have remained side by side. We want a planning that follows a farm with collaboration and consent from the municipalities, because it was owned by many of the cultural infrastructures and, therefore, it is municipal in order to play an important role, even though we want it to have a planning of artistic teachings, it follows a farm with professionals and workers in this sector, and it does not mean that we are out of the way as we are used to wondering. And by the month, like we put in a calendar, it'll be here before the end of the year, so we look good, we think it'll be done. It was the second transaction and then push a ship to tax its own culture, from here, from the future republic of Catalonia and Aran, looking for my own finances, to help finance the sector. We do not understand this transaction as a stand-alone clause, except that we are now in a position to defend these trials as an independent republic. At the end, we will vote so that this is the number 3, because we understand that I have a point that you give eth debat, that I want us to. Cau replanting eth Conca, we don't have to talk to all of them, not that we are Members and Members of this Parliament, but that we also want to speak to all the professionals and workers of this sector. And, therefore, we are voting in favour of it. Then to end, to say that in this motion we will not put pieces into what cause I am ill, that I am eth Conca, otherwise that we give eth must then completely replant it, from the root of the anger of the buildings which I have counseled. They talked about cultural models and objective sounds, and talked about this promotion of basic, supportive, and solidary critical culture. And from here we will take a critical, tanben analysis of the possible organizational forms that once we guarantee a better foundation of the National Council of Arts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.71.0	Next, there is the words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.72.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, deputies, deputies, which was the initial motion of Mr Bruguera, where it was explained in detail who should be the functions of the Conca, ended up converting a little into an invitation, right? In the debate, and it's good that you step up to the invitation, because it's a topic, so, very important, a topic that we'll have to address with more time and not with the five minutes that we'll have to deal with the papers and the motion, and I'm telling you, I accept the invitation and vote for all the points of this young man. The Conca was born with many and very high objectives, but with certain transparency problems, initially, that led us to doubt a little of its professionalism and neutrality. Then, as we all know, there were some details, a double breakdown of resources and functions; this led to many resignations, one resignation, we can say, collective. Nor did it help the institutional drift that Catalonia has suffered in recent years and that led to a very important resignation for me, a very important individual resignation, because I feel it personally, I think it is possibly the greatest, one of the greatest thinkers of the Catalan culture of the present century. But it has to be said that Mr. Duarte, now, and his team have managed to stabilize the institution. And we conform to this, we conform to the current situation, to what is there now? No, we don't, and certainly not the members of the Conca, nor the Members of this House who are at this House, because right now we're talking more or less about an observer of Catalan culture who does some concrete analysis of cultural institutions and some more general ones, such as the annual report, a report that is a good photograph, and all folds, all these reports folded together, so they make a good film of what the situation of Catalan culture is. And beyond the observer we could say he's a modest councillor, but he's already – he's already. He does analytical tasks and proposals, but this was not the initial idea of the Conca. We may not be able to go as far as we're supposed to, but obviously, we can't stay as short as the current situation is. We will have to make a good debate, a debate that will require an analysis, a good photograph of the current situation of the body, an analysis that has not been done so far with the depth that it requires. The debate on how the President and the members of the Conca should be elected, all his advisers, is necessary. It will also be key to find elements..., this did not go to the office, but I believe that it will be key to find elements that are capable of transparency, especially if the functions of the Conca are increased; we will have to apply the law of transparency and we will have to apply more transparency measures to avoid errors of the past. We therefore have to discuss the functions of the Conca, the choices of its members and the transparency of its management, but also of its resources, and from here some of our reviews, because without resources, the objectives or functions – already to the initial motion there was a whole rule that went from the to the q, from functions – therefore, without these resources the objectives set are only serious a declaration of intentions, a simple toast to the sun. Here we, as I said, have presented a thought in the sense of providing the Conca with more economic resources and more human resources, and we believe that the most reasonable way to do so would be to pass these resources from the Department of Culture, because we will have to prevent there being a duplication of functions between the Conca, the future Conca, and the Department of Culture, which already tastes hard, huh? , that we are able to get competition from the department now that we have a councilman who rejects the label of a Romanesque nationalist and is defined as liberal, but it is also from economic liberalism, so we need to make sure that there are no administrative duplications and avoid the misrepresentation of public resources, and what is more important, from political liberalism we understand that the government does not have to have tools to politicize culture in a partisan way as it unfortunately passed to Catalonia in the past few years in an extreme and worrying way. It has to be said that this was not the fault of the Culture Council, either, because the head and the end of this is a council with a premise, so, very nice, a premise that gives to push Persians, to open the lights, to pay the staff and little else, does not give to do much cultural politics. In short, it is important that the Committee on Culture is given this debate, that we rethink the functions, resources and methods of the Conca. The Catalan People's Party, as I said, wants to be in this debate, we want to have an active role in this redefinition of Catalan cultural policy and, therefore, today we will vote in favour of all the points of the motion so kindly presented to us by Mr Bruguera. Many thanks
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.73.0	Next, there's the word "Mrs. Gemma Lienas" from Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.74.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, a few days ago, I had a meeting with an entity dedicated to childhood and they told me that it was good for the government to assess the impact of decisions before approving and implementing them, and I remembered a phrase that at home was often said when I was a little girl: "There are students who eat tablecloths. I wouldn't want to offend anyone by explaining the meaning of it, but in case someone doesn't know it, I'll tell them that it's a saying that plays with the double meaning of the word "savvy, action to smooth out, and, as a matter of fact in plural, the estry that's placed in the table and placed in the top of the pots, boxes, so as not to brutish or cremate the tablecloths. The saying says, therefore, that sometimes, in order to avoid it, they lose. This half-hour serves me to explain the unfortunate impact of the details that the previous legislature made the Government of Convergence and Union in all spheres, and now and here I refer to that of culture. Today, culture could emerge as a sector of added value, quality jobs, innovation, attraction and internationalization. They think that culture and knowledge could be the main sectors for Catalonia's economic growth, and, in change, as if there wasn't just one bet in this sense, but that, in addition, there was a hole in the tablecloths because of these students, we went back. The sector of culture, therefore, is currently in agonic state, a strategic error like a cathedral. That is why we would vote in favour of the motion presented for the Socialist Party of Catalonia, because it is a bet to try to reverse some of the evils of the previous legislature. I would like to focus on the first point of this motion, which refers to the presentation of a planning of artistic teachings before the end of 2016; planning that needs to include primary, secondary, university and non-regulated teaching. In the line of drilling the tablecloths during the previous legislature, we have seen how the artistic, musical and dance teachings have come to a double obscene. First, that of the LOMCE, since the PP of Madrid, which covers the artistic teachings in the educational curriculum; and second, it gives them the details of financing by the Generalitat of Catalonia. This lack of artistic teachings has two harmful consequences. On one side, we lose creativity, all that we could develop children and young people from our country if we didn't get rid of resumes and funding. I already know that they will blame Madrid for this lack of funding, but I want to remind them of the effort they are making to support all these schools of music, dance, artistic teachings in front of the Generality's desire. That there are two consequences, the second is that children and young people from this country should be future spectators of theatre, cinema, music, dance, and future readers. And, in this respect, we also lose, because children and young people are not stimulated by the interest in culture. So you see, we need to look at it because, if not, in the future we will lack creators and consumers of culture. And the other thing I want to overtook from the young man is that he's referring to the Conca. The model of Conca that we currently have is not the one that defended the deputies and deputies of Initiative for Catalunya Verds and Esquerra Unita e Alternativa. The current Conca has been maintained its independence, its economic endowment has been tightened and it has been left, if not empty of contents, its strength diminished. Our group therefore supports the initiative to promote, within the framework of the Committee on Culture, a working group with the objective of analysing and reflecting the model of the National Council of Culture and the Arts that we want, and that passes, in our understanding, to recover the characteristics that it had in its beginning. In any case, the feeling that I have after giving support to this young man is that this Parliament makes Penelope. Remember the Penelope? , that theyxia and desthexia and retweeting while waiting for Ulisses' return. So, this, that we are looking to weave again what it was during the last parliamentary term that was razed down. It's a long time lost and all the devastation generated. Our group will be fond of the changes that are to be made and on schedule. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.75.0	Next, has the word Ms. Susana Beltrán, from Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.76.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, I need what Mrs Lienas has just said about Ulisses, right? : maybe the good news in this legislature is that one day Ulisses returned and, perhaps, in this legislature, it's the way that we may all agree and we can talk seriously about what we mean by culture and, of course, so, what role should Conca play in our own years. We thank the deputy Bruguera, who defended this representative of the Socialist Party, who has accepted us, traded us, also with the Group Junts for the Yes – the point at which it is said that it will create in the if of the Committee of Culture a working group that will study what is the model that the Conca must have in the next few years, so that it will be possible to present, to be able to defend also, from Ciutadans, in this working group, the papers that we have presented in this motion and that, surely, could be much better debated and much better agreed with the other groups. And I'm also saying this because, at the Conca... we have paid a lot of attention to the Conca, to the other two points: for what it does to the finance model and for what it does in the artistic teachings. We agree and will vote in favour. And, in relation to the Conca, it's true that it was born – and so too, so it's settled, huh? – with a desire to be a transversal, partisan organism; and, the fact that we are here, therefore, discussing whether we create a working group to discuss the Conca model is surely because it has not worked as well as it should. That is why we are taking advantage of the advent of this working group, so that we can defend what the Conca must have, in the sense of being able to promote new forms of creation. We have carefully read the latest reports of the Conca, where it is said, therefore, that the knowledge of new forms of knowledge, thought and creation had to be advanced. The Conca too, therefore, must be a radar that is able to see who are the cultural manifestations that are giving themselves to Catalonia, and, at the same time, therefore, to promote the dialogue between all these creators of culture and all these initiates of culture and administration. And that's why we want a Conca partyist, we want a Conca that, perhaps in this working group, also allows us to ask, defend, therefore, a more important role respect the Parliament; why is that where it is defense, right? , where is guaranteed better the plurality of society, in order to be able to defend a reinforcement of the designation of the members of the Conca, of the president, of the vice president... We can also defend an organ independent of the administrations, that vitlli for any manifestation of the culture, for all types of cultural initiatives, also for the culture that can be made to Catalonia in all the languages of Catalonia, and not only all the languages that are spoken here, but also of the world, because the culture must pass any, we understand, party ideology, right? We did very well – and we appreciate it, so, as the motion has finally remained – that there are some terms, right? : finish in 2016. To urge the Government to take into account all the conclusions, proposals that can be made in this working group. And I finish a little as I started, don't I? And I hope that Penelope will finish his weaving and that finally, then, we can tell the whole Catalan society that what we did here served to improve the culture in Catalonia. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.77.0	Next, there is the words of Ms Teresa Vallverdú, from Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.78.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, let me begin by celebrating the fact that we can debate a young person like this with all, the willingness to agree and the will to throw a key element into the policies of the welfare state, such as culture. Such a central and otherwise evil element, he asks for criticisms that we leave behind star confrontations and that we put ourselves to work together to get out of the hole in which it is found and build a country that has in culture one of its main bases. And if we have a young man who doesn't have that intention, it's because we're able to recognize the need for culture to stay on the sidelines of the party battle. In the inquiry, both the intervention of the Member and the Councillor went in this direction and our work as a parliamentary group has also been to seek agreement and facilitate it, to find the maximum consensus, to be many, all, to be able to be. With this intention we have made a proposal for papers and we have come to some transactions that we are satisfied with, because they represent precisely this willingness not to use political tools as an attack, but to keep them in the service of construction and culture. The thickness of this motion conforms to point 3. The first two present very important aspects, such as the reference to artistic and cultural teachings, to plan and detect the training needs and social prestige. And the need also to have new tax treatment formulas for an environment that suffers the crisis in a very serious way and that has seen in aspects such as VAT a key piece in the loss of this central element capacity. This Parliament did the work and put forward a proposal to the Congress of Deputies because the cultural VAT was 4_per_cent, precisely to facilitate access to culture for everyone and not to punish another sector that had to go to close companies and leaving people on the street. But it didn't succeed, because the absolute majority of the PP dropped it. A few days ago, however, with other majorities, a Republican Esquerra proposal for the PSOE managed to approve a 10_per_cent reduction. It's not the goal and there's a lot of way to run, but it's good news because it went in the direction that the sector and the public need. But we already have to act with a new mindset. We need to be creative from now on, with our own financing lives and suited to the needs of the cultural sector, and we need to prepare this republic for the tax treatment it serves to promote culture and to make it the central place that corresponds to it. The last legislature created a tax to help the audiovisual sector, very badly and with immense potential. As in so many other cases, however, we suffer the consequences of not being the masters of our policies. And initiates like these, created to favor the sector, have been fallen for those who can still do it. But we'll have the tools and we'll be able to decide about issues like the Merit Law or VAT, and it's time to think about it, talk about it and start working on it. On point 3 – the true bulk of this young man – we celebrate the transaction that we have reached and that reflects the will that was expressed in this same faristol fifteen days ago. We share the need to rethink the Conca, because we think it has to be a real organ to help the artistic creation and to spread it. It now has a function of analysis and control with a high degree of criticism and effectiveness; for example, with the annual report on the state of culture in the country or reports on concrete aspects. The National Cultural Awards are also a very important element, but the Conca must not only be a consultative organ, but must also be an active organ and a real tool to improve public cultural policies of creation. There seems to be some agreement that there are aspects of the Conca Law that need to be reformulated. We can agree on many points, on others it will be hot debate and discussion, but we are compromised to do so. And, therefore, it seems necessary not to direct the changes through a young man, who was the proposal that had been put forward, but to open a space of dialogue and debate to decide which are the shortcomings of the Conca as it stands, which are the best we consider necessary, which are the elements that require a substantive review. For us, the objective of this working group is clear. We can have different ideas about how to change the Conca, but we can certainly share many of them: its independence, the plurality of its members, its tria along with party quotas; and we can have less certainty about: where to depend, how to sort the members, how far there should be, who should be its functions and obligations, what levels of expertise, how to pay. But it's worth talking about it seriously among all of us, calmly, intelligently built, that we study other councils, that we listen, that we look and that we change whatever it takes to make the Conca that the culture of truth needs. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.79.0	To pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr. Rafel Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.80.0	Thank you, President, again. More than saying about the papers, saying what I haven't had a chance to say in the first intervention because I've run out of time, and it's thanking the willingness and effort of all the groups, of all the spokespersons of parliamentary groups. It has not been easy, but in the end, therefore, it has come to an agreement which seems to me to be absolutely satisfactory for all parliamentary groups. And this shows that when you're dealing with themes that are relevant, important, the will is the first step after, from the point of view of effort, being able to come to terms as was the case. Therefore, we also rejoice and give ourselves... to convey thanks to the rest of the spokespersons of parliamentary groups. Two very brief questions: there has been talk – I share most of the interventions of the spokespersons who have spoken – of independence, of an apartist Conca, absolutely agree – absolutely agree. In fact, we, in the initial motion, are talking..., we proposed the adscript of the Conca to Parliament, so precisely, to make clear this: the independence and the apartheid of the Conca. I would not want to put water in the living, but, if I may the lady..., Congresswoman Boya, very humbly, I would say that cynicism and hypocrisy should not be, from my point of view, at least, expressions to express the discrepancy respect opinions..., the opinions of others. Another issue that came out, it is true, is that in the initial motion there was a whole set of questions, of the competitions of the Conca and, it is true, that this was fruit, it was the fruit, at the time, of a very intense debate in the case of my party and my parliamentary group. And, therefore, we, understand the position of the majority of spokespersons, we have understood that this maturity that we have made at the length of months, perhaps it was precipitated to ask the rest of the groups that made it in a few days. And, therefore, we have no objection to moving this debate to the committee that can be created. So, I finish by thanking again..., for which I have listened, that this young man will be approved for unanimity and, therefore, I believe that we have done a great job putting on the table three key, crucial, structural elements for the culture of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.81.0	Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] We'll vote for the senicera. The vote begins. It was adopted by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] I would like to inform you that a review has been requested of the compromise proposal submitted by Juntes for the Yes and the CUP, which affects the seven points on the agenda of today. Therefore, we call the Board of Spokesmen and the Bureau on a continuous basis. For this reason we suspend the Ple for thirty minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.82.0	It's part of the session. [[Motion subsequent to the government's inquiry into sanitation]] [[302-00022/11]] The 14th item of the order of the day is: Motion following the question to the Government about sanitation, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mr. Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.83.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning, Honourable President, Councillors, Councillor Comín, Deputies, Deputies, People who accompany us to the room today. And especially, yes, I want to direct to you, workers you represent..., SEM workers, ambulance workers; especially I want to direct to you to ask if, please, you can give thanks to your companions, to the workers who each day are twenty-four hours, therefore, guarding themselves, leaving their hair; they are prepared to come out at any time to solve the problems of the citizens, of the people, when they suffer; excellent professionals. And, therefore, I would like, therefore, that, in my name, thinking of this institution, thinking of Parliament, thinking of Members and Members, please, tell them that we are very grateful, very satisfied. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]] Yes; the other day, in the inquiry, I asked for a call; I said, a little, to reorganize, to adjust the health system in emergencies. And he said it without any predictions. There is no guard without a chest pain; there is no guard without a respiratory overinfection; there is no guard, unfortunately, without a traffic accident; there is no Holy Week without traffic accidents. And then it's when he sees politics. We, who are now engaged in politics, have to donate all the tools, huh? Because good professionals can give, so good answers. And that's why we need to be generous, we need to be sensible and we need to be careful. Because things never happen; they never happen until they happen. And that's why the people who work in ambulances know perfectly well that they need to be prepared for twenty-four hours, because when they do – and they do – they need to be prepared. And, therefore, it is unacceptable, it is absolutely unacceptable to keep ambulances closed. We can't hold the ambulances overnight at the garages. Moreover, it must be acknowledged that the current health transport model has not achieved the desired results. And that's why we're here reviewing and adjusting the model. Because Lleida is called two full ambulances – with doctors, nurses and technicians – and I repeat: Lleida is called two full ambulances. And, even so, I call a full ambulance to the city of Tarragona. And so it would continue with other places in the territory. Therefore, I need to adjust these meths and infirmaries that are already in the system, but I need, therefore, to rearrange and resit, as you must have read the motion fully. And equally so that there are ambulances, so, basics, prepared, to get out just when there are problems. They're the first ones to get to the territory and the places. For this reason, I do not admit, at any time, therefore, to listen to associations, white tides, professional colleges, unions, patients, the same professionals, etcetera, who are warning us that the system is not the best, and here we do not do so. And, therefore, as I do not admit and do not admit it by my parliamentary group, from Ciutadans, so, for this reason, I made this inquiry. And for this reason today we will discuss this motion extensively; extensive motion, very technical motion, and motion I think very respectful with all groups and with the needs of the citizens, because, I insist, we remain cautious and adjust the model. This is a cross-cutting issue which, in my and our understanding, can be arranged in a cross-cutting way, as agreed. That's why I'm proud to see what we're doing here; I'm proud, because I think we're going to make it easier for professionals..., with some political consensus, for citizens and professionals to have a better system of medical emergencies. That's very important. And, therefore, further, and as you have read the motion, I will continue to say that it is the professionals who must be treated with respect, with dialogue and with consensus. And, therefore, I would like to welcome their continued active participation in all of these negotiating tables. Therefore, we remain cautious and adjust the model. Many thanks, deputies; many thanks, deputies. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.84.0	To defend the papers presented, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.85.0	Good morning. First of all, taking advantage of the fact that we are talking about health and sanitation, I would like to, in this case, because I believe that things must be recognized, to congratulate the Health Department for having withdrawn as a private accusation, together with the direction of ICAM, of the case of Naty Gómez, so that it is fair and Naty will not have to go to court. So, I think it's a waste here, too, to congratulate and aggravate the gesture. But going back to the House, today we bring to the House a debate that we started here, in a certain way, three weeks ago; what you said passed, to the Health Commission, we talked about, and where we already positioned ourselves: beyond a territorial debate, like a debate on the model of health transport; a model of transport that is, obviously, and cannot be denied either, a rebuffed heritage of the former Government. The CUP - Creed Constituent we have denounced from the first moment a model applied to the basis of decree, without debate with the workers, without detection of needs or characteristics and peculiarities of the territory. We have lost the opportunity to move forward with a model of ownership, management and public provision. And why do we say that? Because this model is still a reorganisation of what has been the big health business. And, therefore, with this model based, other times, in the outsourcing of the service to private companies, we lose control over the quality of care and the conditions of the workers. It is obvious that it is necessary to redistribute resources to solve concrete problems, but this model does not affect only a few populations; this model affects the whole Principality. Therefore, let us discuss it in its totality and share it with all the territories and all the trades; let us, from the beginning, address it in its general dimension, because, if not, we enter the logic of marketing, to benefit one another over another, and lose sight of what we have already said: the problem is the whole model. In addition, we want to do more, ourselves, of the contest that ended last year. We have made it to the prosecution, because we understand that there may be certain criminal clues in that contest; in the contest, as in the least, of some of the lots. I explained to him, and I told him "indicators, that they want to investigate, but that makes us question the whole contest. I'll explain. April 1st there was the final award; in that final award, Transport Sanitari de Catalunya was awarded seven lots– Transport Sanitari de Catalunya, the Bonomi family. On July 16, 2015, the Fundació Port Aventura signed a collaboration agreement with the Hospital Sant Joan de Deu that involves a donation of 3_million euros. The Fundació Port Aventura was owned until March 2016 by the Bonomi family. Therefore, this makes us question how this contest went: April 1st matches seven lots, on July 16th gives 3_million euros. That's why we're putting back together what we said last week. We discuss the whole model, we reverse the whole model, and we don't get in here either, but we don't give a shit. That is why we will vote in favour of all those points in the motion that address the model in its totality, those points that recognize the work of the workers of the emergence service as basic and essential service that it is. We will vote in favour of generating debate space to detect the peculiarities of the territory, but we will not enter into the logic of marketing, of some yes and others no. At the same time, I thank the Member of Parliament for his willingness to reach agreements and to reach consensus, because I think this is the way we have to and we always have to solve the problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.86.0	Next, there's the word "Mrs. Marta Ribas," from Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.87.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors... to greet also the huge representation of the health transport sector that today accompanies us. This is a debate that has been going on for a long time, that of the model, but also that of this health transport contest that was done the past year and that in this chamber was dealt with enough and with various motions, also in this House of Parliament. On February 3, in a question to the government's control session, I said to him: "Counselor, you have a problem, and it's called health transportation. And we're recognising it. And we are pleased that he recognizes us, not because he recognizes us, but because the best way to solve a problem is that, as a minimum, he recognizes that it exists. And today we have the opportunity to start putting solutions – we agree in this sense with the CUP – in elements of the model. We must not go territory by territory to resolve what is currently happening to us with health transport to Catalonia. It is a problem of the implementation yes or yes of a model that did not have the consent neither territorial nor of the professionals, model VIR, of the vehicle of rapid intervention. It is a problem that has been added to some of the details that had occurred in the health system as a whole and that particularly affected primary education in certain territories, and that this was followed by some of the details that also existed in health transport. More primary health transport with retailing means lack of quality attention to the citizenry. If, in addition, a new model has been introduced without territorial consensus; a model that has proved to be, as it is at the moment and has not been, that is, that it would be inefficient, even economically, and that it would be insecure for the proper professionals of the system, it is, unfortunately, proving itself. It is a model that is not answerable to what was already successful in Catalonia and that was better, as it is to take into account the isocrons, the response time in which to give guarantee to the citizen of response time of the health transport; in this sense, one of our reviews that we have made to the young man of Ciutadans. It is a model that was implanting these new VIR vehicles reducing existing ones and not adding to existing ones; in this sense, one of the items that we have made to the motion and that was accepted by Ciutadans. It is a model that has also loaded the time guarantees in the non-urgent health transport; in this sense, too, we have made in this young man and that has also been accepted by Ciutadans. And I would like to give you examples of what the same professionals tell us of how this is affecting insecure, service quality and efficiency. A doctor of a VIR tells us: "I ask myself every day, when I arrive late to attend to a heart failure, what would have happened if I arrived together with the team with the nurse fifteen minutes earlier, as it did, and we started from the zero minute to work folded as before. This is happening to me every day as a VIR meter at the moment. This is insecure for the professional and is poor quality of service. Another methage tells us: « In more than 50_percent of the services we end up with various teams. This means that we serve, at least, three vehicles: a basic life support unit, an intermediate life support unit and a VIR. At least, six professionals. To make a medical transfer, always two cars up and down to reach the referral hospital. This is inefficiency, also economic, of the use of public resources. That's enough to solve it. And this should resolve the need for evaluation, the need for follow-up to this competition and the need for transparency. And, in this sense, also, two of our papers that we have made to this young man and that have also been accepted by Citizens. Keeping, moreover, those dialog tables that were created, the national and territorial, with another young man in this chamber to be able to do this follow-up, assessment and transparency. And this has concrete effects on concrete territories. And that is why we will also support the rest of the elements that talk about concrete effects in concrete territories that are planted to the Ciutadans movement. And one last element that we have also introduced through the paper and that we thank Ciutan for the willingness to incorporate our proposals, and this is urgent: the reinforcements of summer and winter in health transport. This competition has also carried the PIUC, winter reinforcements to areas where hospital emergencies and CAPs are saturated when it is time for flus, for example, and, in the summer, in those areas with a lot of tourism, where the population is shooting, and which obviously cannot be answered with the same health transport name. We have a hard problem and an opportunity to solve it 'from this young man. It does not appear in this young man, but it is also fair to say: this difficult problem has generated a certain direction of the SEM, and this certain direction of the SEM continues to be in the direction of the SEM. Hardly solve the problem with the same methods, counselor. Think 'ho. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.88.0	Next, the words of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.89.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. To begin with the very beginning of the companies that preceded me, and also the deputy of Ciutadans, greeting and thanking the professionals and the unions, which we have here today, of the System of Medical Emergencies, some coming from Lleida, as they came the other day, also, or from the Lands of the Ebro or the Lower Empordà, as they came the other day to the Health Commission, when there were already three motions for resolution around this topic. The other day we saw the committee's first three initiations; today we see this motion and the inquiry of the plenary. There are many parliamentary initiatives and all have a common denominator. I believe that, too, I should turn back the words of the previous interventions. First, to find; to find that the model change placed in the march of the darer contest does not work. This extrapolate the model of dense areas to the whole territory, the only one that does is to demonstrate, as we say, inefficiency in resources and generate inequities in the territory. It is not the same Barcelona as the Lands of Lleida, it is not the same Barcelona as the Ebre. That's obvious. The second thing is that under this competition that made this model change what there was also followed the continuity of the clippings. Why? So, because they have been reduced in the territory hours of service, especially at night, in some areas where they reach the referral centers and health centers..., they are far away and, therefore, losing twelve hours of ambulance and transport service is absolutely in..., go, intolerable. But at the same time, also, because it has generated a redistribution of the professionals, that..., I think that it has defined very well the deputy Marta Ribas, we have ended up having or three vehicles or generating really inefficiencies. To remove the infirmary in the service, to replace the advance for a VIR and to remove the infirmary professional the only one that has generated is, more inefficiency, insecurity. And that's what we're seeing. Moreover, and it is obvious, the inn outside this contest, in some areas, has been done without conditions and without the right material. Look, the most important consensus there is that has been able to generate the deputy Jorge Soler, who we must thank for the effort to admit the papers and to seek a consensus to the most general possible generality and the consensus of professionals, assemblies and citizens' platforms to demand change, to claim to reverse the model and denounce the loss of quality in the service, and, therefore, the good attention to the citizenry. I would say that the other day, too, in the presentation of the inquiry, and we would say that in the committee: we are faced with an important health problem, but that you have a solution, if there is a political will, and that they do not depend on large economic expenses, but on rethinking, again and with consensus, the whole model. My group will give support to the motion presented for the Ciutadans group. To thank, as I said, the effort to incorporate all the elements, and therefore the search for a consensus, which has not been, in the implementation of the model, and, at the same time, also to thank that the elements presented for my group have been incorporated. Some reference to the reports that the counselor said he had asked for, the d'Aquas and the department's, because in the next..., as soon as possible, it's the same, a_month or a_month and a_mig, on the basis of shared knowledge, we can take, with the utmost consent, the most opportune decisions. And to thank, above all, the incorporation that all of us have made of the recognition of the professionals in the same motion, of the professionals of medical emergencies, and, as always, of all the professionals of salvation. To reiterate, therefore, the favourable vote of my group, and to hope that this consensus will go to all. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.90.0	The word "Mrs. Montserrat Candini", from the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.91.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members, welcome, also, professionals, workers, unions of emergency services, welcome to everyone's house. For the Parliamentary Group of Juntes per el Si, obviously, all these questions that they have to do with health policy, logically, for us it is a very, very sensitive – very, very sensitive – element, and it is also an element that, in our full awareness, logically, the Councillor has already said in his answer to the wide question..., is that the whole issue, therefore, of health transport, which logically should be adjusted, that logically it should assess exactly who those conditions were, those problems which, in the end and in the end, were an injustice; injustice that we want to raise from the rigour; injustice that we want to plant, also, demand, as we do, that together for the Yes, that we should intervene in the same way as we do in the same way, that we should not act in the same way. But to know this, in the right measure, precisely because it has been said at some other time that reality is asymmetric, reality is different, it is not the same mountain as it costs, it is not the same as five types of people and it is like five types of characteristics, which is precisely what it is to know with the measure of reports that are commissioned by the department, and which was also explained by the same councillor. These reports... we'll get your answer, your exact assessment where all the problems are at the end of this month. I mean, today's April 7th. Twenty-three days and twenty-four, twenty-three days after what we're doing today, we'll know for sure, with knowledge of cause, with studies that, moreover, it means that they also intervene directly professionally to assess, logically, all this matter..., we'll have more knowledge of what it is that we can goodly correct, how we do it and how we do it. And that's very important. I allow you to make a nice little expression, that I had a teacher who told me that it was very important that before the decision-making process, these non-fessin decisions were taken..., not in a hurry for which he called "floating fingers", which means "the impression of –" the impression of. "The impression of it is valid, every one of us seems to us, from the territorial area in which we are, that what happens to us is really, because surely it goes well, but sure that we have all the elements, all the indicators to be able to assess in the conjunction, that is the responsibility on the part of the department to be able to give answer? Of course not – of course not – because mircroinformation, segregated information, the question absolutely much more in this sense, much more..., in a much smaller area, will hardly be able to give us the result of the conjunction. And as we want, in any case, to ask the department, and as a group of Juntes for the Yes, what we want above all is, I insist, transparency, rigour, participation, efficiency – efficiency – and serve, serve, serve public and serve, above all, the patients. But you need to have this information. Let me tell you that the paper can handle everything, and the political dynamic is this, especially if you're at the opposition is this: that the paper can handle it all and we can add. But there are elements that put us in this motion that we cannot vote in favour. And I make it very clear: we cannot compromise that in cases of exceptional emergencies the vehicles, for example, of TSU, are forbidden to transfer patients to the care center best suited to meet the need, regardless of whether it is public or private ownership. What are we talking about? So that systems are efficient, that work is rationalized, that resources are more operative. Or don't we want that? Of course they do! I am convinced that there is no interest of any kind from the point of view, neither territorial, nor personal, nor corporate, selfish; all the contrary, let's value it all, with all the elements and with all the demands. Another point we can't support is all the EMS staff involved in the health competition work exclusively to maximize response capacity. So, there's a model of collaborative bases, huh? , which are different types of centres that have agreed with the SEM to activate professionals in case of need. Let's go back to being... a clear example. We don't betray abilities, we don't suffer anymore. We can have mistakes, sure; we want to correct them. But correcting the errors we add, more than that, to the lower response capacity, is the joint of the country that ends up patenting, and it is the joint of the needs and answers to the patients. I'm convinced no one wants it, that's what. Therefore, we do not let ourselves be carried because the paper endures everything, that the motions do their job and, therefore, they are necessary; but, above all, there are elements that we, by rigor, by responsibility, cannot. I don't want to finish my speech before I call the president's attention without thanking the deputy, Mr. Jorge Soler, his finesse, and I say it in Italy, I come from Italians, because it has been exquisite: a pleasure to work with you. Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.92.0	Ms. Marisa Xandri has the word to fix her position. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, it's true..., of the People's Party – it's true.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.93.0	Thank you, President. First of all, to greet the representatives of the SEM who have come from different points of Catalonia, Lleida, the Lands of the Ebre, Councillors..., well, the People's Party, therefore, we will give support to this motion that revolves around the urgent health transport on the system of medical emergencies to Catalonia, a question that has been put in debate at different points of the territory. At the length of the inquiry that Mr Soler, therefore, made to the Councillor, the problem that led to the implementation of the new model of health transport, which began to be deployed last November to the Lleida region and which ended the generation in Hospitallet and Baix Llobregat, was manifest. And I take this opportunity to open a parenthesis, because I want to remember when the deployment started. Just in Catalonia we had a government in place, because in his day he caused some of you to criticize with the new system without any transparency and a lack of space where to address their complaints. And they were right, if we take into account that the new model of emergency health transport has assumed the most public competition since the last legislature to be equipped with 214_million euros per year for a decade; non-controversial awards, such as Reus's, and that obviously now is not the time to focus on this issue, because we are talking about the model that is applying to urgent assistance and not on contractual arrangements. But it's here, isn't it? And then, back, back to the content of the young man, we're talking about a model that works better or less well, but that works in Barcelona, but not the rest of Catalonia. And I think this is where one of the main shortcomings of the current SEM is located: the dispersion of the population in front of the territorial extension to the provinces of Lleida, Tarragona and Girona has nothing to do with Barcelona, where there are hospitals in strategic points and the lives to get there are in perfect conditions. Therefore, what it is about is to redistribute the resources that we have, redistribute, and that supposes not to spend a single euro; the cost to improve the SEM is zero_euros; one of the few things that are not worth money and that can suppose a substantial change in the lives of many people, including being able to avoid dead, taking into account that the service that is rendered many times depends on the celerity in which it is given, and you know it. And in this sense, it is obvious that giving solution to the shortcomings of the current model rests only on the will of this government to do so. Remember when the director of the SEM, Mr. Francesc Bonet, said that the change would imply a total renewal of the fleet of vehicles and a new management system that would entail a gain of efficiency and a better response time. It's been a few months, and this isn't the appreciation that Lleida, Tarragona and Girona's province professionals do. In fact, it has already been mentioned, so it was made manifest in the last Health Commission, where three motions for resolutions were approved that refer to the best of the current model in the Baix Camp, Terres de l'Ebre and the city of Lleida. I repeat: here it is only a matter of political will, of wanting to give concrete solutions to particular situations. In fact, the same motion details very thoroughly which units of support and which vehicles are missing in concrete municipalities. But all the more important is that these vehicles are equipped with the medical and technical personnel they need. We cannot allow, for example, that the SVI to Lleida citutat does not count with a meth but only has a nurse and a technician. Precisely today, the Secret Diary publishes that the White Sea platform of Pirineus delivered yesterday to the Delegate of Greeting to Lleida more than nine thousand signatures to paralyze the current model of ambulances implanted in Lleida. We understand, as the health professionals have told us, that in most cases it is necessary to keep the multidisciplinary teams – meth, nurse and technician – to give the right response in the right time. Given the lack of a doctor, we find that the nurse has to take responsibility for a faculty, and therefore that has to be corrected. Finally, we are talking about emergency actions, and as such, it requires that the health rigour that they deserve, from the department. Therefore, for all I have said, we will support this young man who has precisely as his object. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.94.0	Mr. Jorge Soler, from Ciutadans, has the word to say about the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.95.0	Well, thank you again, President. MPs, MPs, a clinical cure is paralyzed when in one of the two whites, especially in the experimental white, they detect unintended hard effects; they can put up with it. Therefore, for the same reason, if professionals warn that something in a deployment is not working correctly, then the model should be redesigned. Therefore, we require them thoroughly that we remain cautious and adjust the model. And, for example, and as I have felt, therefore, in the interventions, this is an exemplary issue where we can make political, clearly consensual policy, which, moreover, with a young man like this, remains extensive, technical, professional, negotiated and which unites all parliamentary groups. And that's why, so, it's a happy day, I think it's an important day, so, for the workers and workers of the collection. Thank you, Mrs Reguant; three points which you have presented to us, we have finally accepted, introducing a small term. The debate is always good; integrating the professional debate is not that it is good, it is that it is essential, in our parent, and also advancing towards models preferably public, eh? And that's why, so, obviously, we agreed. Congresswoman Ribas, the same; highlighting the debate that fine-tuning the model is essential. Thus, remember that there are places, in the winter, a few times of flus, and obviously, in the summer, in places especially touristic, we can reinforce differently. I think we'll talk about it at the length of the legislature and we'll take over, either you or I, or we, but I think we'll fine-tune it, not just with ambulances; I think we'll have to talk a lot about the subject of the PIU and the reinforcements. And I assure you, don't forget, huh? We've accepted some errands for non-urgent transportation. I insisted on the inquiry. I wanted to focus today on transportation; however, I'm a lot of the opinion that I need to negotiate, I need to listen, and so, if people feel more comfortable in things that I also agree with, we need to accept them. And so we did, huh? With the PSC, well, the same one, right? , ratify what we have already dealt with in the committee. Undoubtedly, I am from Lleida, and therefore I cannot deny that I know perfectly well who is needed, therefore, to the territory and especially to the city of Lleida, and therefore, with this strength, to say it with my interventions and with my words that fall two complete units to the city of Lleida, undoubtedly, and that will be able to be careful to continually review the model. And to go finalizing, well, to Together for the Yes, to the spokesman, so, tell him that, on a personal level, correct and inclusive increase, right? , the answer to your words. I think that between you and me the negotiations and the talks have been on this whole thing. I, therefore, thank you very much. Yes, I do want to manifest, and you know, my disenchantment, huh? , because yesterday we got an absolutely consensual motion from this Parliament, so we passed it on to all the spokespersons, well, and this morning, until the last minute, and using the same sentences that you say, right? I've seen, therefore, some of your company that came looking for me, with these floating fingers, which you said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.96.0	Mr. Soler, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.97.0	... – yes, I finish, I finish in fifteen_seconds – the floating fingers, that clearly, obviously, therefore, I don't think they contribute to what I manifested: dialect, rigor and respect, eh? Try, therefore, to continue with this weaving. Many thanks, deputies; thanks, president. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.98.0	Call it a vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We're calling it a vote. Mrs. Reguant, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.99.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 2, 2 bis, 2 ter, 2 quinquies, 4, 4 bis... – ai, no..., well –, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. [[Pause.]] I should have done it the other way around.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.100.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.101.0	To ask, Madam President; to ask for the reading of points 1 and 10 of this motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.102.0	Mrs. Candini, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.103.0	President, to ask for a separate vote on a follow-up of points...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.104.0	We're almost voting it all out, aren't we, separately?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.105.0	All separately? Perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.106.0	I don't know – I don't know. See, tomorrow – tomorrow.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.107.0	Yeah. Two, two, third...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.108.0	I'm sorry, did you say two?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.109.0	I'm sorry, 2, 2 ter...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.110.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.111.0	... 2 quater, the quarter point, the fifth point, the seventh point and the eighth point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.112.0	Okay. Now, in any case, I will repeat all the separate votes that have been asked of me. [[Pause.]] We're going to read all the points of what a separate vote has been asked to see if they agree. The 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the 2nd, the Is that correct? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, then. So, let's go; we'll start by voting all these points and in the end we'll vote the motion, the one left of the motion. Okay? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, now, before we read... we'll start reading point 1 and point 10. Is that what you're doing? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We proceed to reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.113.0	Point 1 is: "Recognize that the model established for health transport in November 2015 has not achieved the desired results. And point 10... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Point 10 is: "Promote support to the workers and workers of the Medical Emergencies System, valuing the task they develop, which is a basic, elementary and essential service for the citizenry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.114.0	We shall now proceed to the vote. Let's start by voting point two. The vote begins. It was approved by 63 votes to one, with 70 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on the 2a point. The vote begins. It was approved by 124 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 2b. The vote begins. It was approved by 63 votes in favour, against and 71 abstentions. Next, we'll vote 2.4. The vote begins. It was approved by 73 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on 2.5. The vote begins. It was approved by 124 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point four. The vote begins. It was approved by 63 votes to 61, with 10 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Next, we'll vote on the 4th. The vote begins. It was approved by 134 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 5. The vote begins. It was approved by 63 votes in favour, against and 71 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Next, we'll vote on point 6. The vote begins. It was approved by 124 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 7. The vote begins. It was approved by 63 votes in favour, against and 71 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 8. The vote begins. It was approved by 63 votes in favour, against and 71 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 9. The vote begins. It was approved by 124 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. And then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. It was adopted by 134 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Perlongats applause.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the environment]] [[302-00023/11]] The 15th item on the agenda is the following question to the Government on the environment presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, she has the word Marina Bravo. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Mrs. Marina Bravo, shall we begin?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.115.0	Thank you, President. Members, Councillor, we have average values of environmental pollution that have for a long time attracted attention to Europe, and exceptional points that oblige us to take extraordinary measures from time to time, and they will surely have to end up being more; extraordinary measures that demonstrate the failure of the government's environmental policies. We have plans with many good intentions and too few results. We have a specific plan for improving air quality; it includes an endless number of rather ambitious targets, but they are intended to be achieved with actions that are not really ambitious at all, and on top of that they set traps for the lonely to make it seem like they are doing well. I would like to give you an example of the first action of the plan: "Objective 1: to boost, encourage and promote public, urban and long-distance transport. As a goal is fine, surely all groups carry it in our program; but then we can go into detail. The first action of the plan to achieve this objective is: « lines of contribution to the nearest railway stations – buses that take us to the station –; it sounds good. But look at what it materializes – and this is where we start to cheat, or we're completely fooled –; in the plan, what it says we're going to do is to implement the measures that were already in the Catalonia Travel Plan 2008-2012 and in the Barcelona metropolitan mobility master plan 2008-2012. That is, in 2014 we approved that our plan to do things by 2020 was to implement what we had not implemented from a plan that had to be complete in 2012. It is very good that plans are linked; in fact, it is essential that they are coordinated with each other. But when you approve a plan in 2014 it cannot be your goal to fulfill what you had in an old plan. Whom do we want to deceive? What do we gain if we do this? When you're making a plan to fight something as serious as the bad air quality we breathe, we can't just make it look like we're doing something, we can't just keep a record. We have to start by proposing to make a real effort, not simulated, and then carry it out in a firm way, devoting whatever resources are needed. We had been tempted to ask for all the measures of the plan to be further elaborated. For the amendments that have been tabled by the rest of the groups, it seems that we are not the only ones we would like, and we will work on that later on with concrete proposals. This particular, this motion, pretends to be only the first of them. A first proposal linked to this first point, to this first objective of the plan: to promote, encourage and encourage public, urban and interurban transport. We propose, first of all, to review and finalize that chapter. We also propose that they do not comply with the plans we had so far, but that they take into account the dramatic reality of the day. We also propose that the effects of the measures already included in the plan be implemented and monitored. We also propose adding two points. One, to have a plan to strengthen public transport services for episodes of high environmental pollution. It seems obvious, but so far, surprisingly, it is not done. We inform the population, we tell them not to take the car, we put speed limits on them... That is, in the episodes of pollution we are asking the citizens for an additional effort without offering them any additional offer. And two, we also propose you to study a new network of dissuasive parkings with easy access and large capacity. And we are not thinking about those who contemplated in the plan, which are usually park-and-ride for municipal use, but a new network of a few, well thought out, so that public transport within the most congested areas can combine with the use of the private vehicle outside them; so that people, who have very different circumstances, can take the children to school or their parents to a day centre by car and then easily leave the vehicle out of the areas of greatest congestion. All this cannot be left in the hands of the metropolitan areas, and that is why we call for greater leadership from the Government of the Generalitat. In short, we have to facilitate access to public transport before we ask citizens to leave the car at home, and that is why we have to start now. The failure of the government's environmental policies can lead us to have to take very demanding urgent measures, and it is our responsibility to study the good so that we can turn them around and that they can not hinder, but improve the day-to-day lives of citizens. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.116.0	To defend the papers presented, has the word Ms. Mireia Boya, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Cry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.117.0	Thank you, President. Eth problem, dear, there is no question of episodes of severe contamination, and she was mean of anau contamination, it was chronic, basic contamination, which we breathe day by day. Incompletely ally of microparticles and nitrogen dioxide, and in addition to these are judicial proceedings due for infringement, which are currently in court. And today two procedures were referred to the fixed ranks of WHO, it was the World Organization of Greetings. We found it was an initial motion that was totally inadequate. You think that's what happened to all the grups. By the way it was trigar eth color curtains before ending eth lost this house. In response, we have introduced, we will introduce many amendments before improving it, before returning to that motion which is being tabled by Parliament in 2014, presented for the initiative for Catalonia Verds, and which e Govèrn previously did not apply, and therefore remained in cabinets of debrembre. It was such a motion that it was already minimal, as it was a gruesome step, to finally be able to get over it was atmospheric contamination. As a dide, this motion has now restricted itself to mobility and the sharp episodes of severe contamination, which come to be two, three, four days a year. As I did before, it is all insufficient: now seek to attack contamination all days and in its integrated, transversal form; now seek to attack it from all sectors; seek to raise a debate praying for its urgent measures to take in order to mitigate the aggravation of atmospheric contamination. I'm on board with the present motion, a partial debate on the infrastructure and it was mobilized, as long as we didn't talk about the rolling stock as we would have talked about. We debrembam is exchangers, many of which are planned and which have not unfolded. Tanben..., we did not introduce the theme of tolls before entering into cities. We are not talking about environmental taxes that could be decoratized was the use of this private vehicle before entering into existing areas as many villages and as many contaminated areas. We don't talk about the subject of the Port of Barcelona, a great emitter; we don't talk about the industry; we don't talk about the transport of goods. And, for all this, we consider, we consider it to be a lot of ambition. We have remained in such a small part, but it was a situation and so great that it was CUP - Constituent Creed considered that, even if we did not have a strong vision of this global problem, we were going to vote in favour, we were going to vote above and above these small measures focused on mobility, on the one hand, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the one hand, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other. And, therefore, we cannot allow or abstain from a vote against it. Tanben, criticizing some of the articles that augusta motion, sustot eth que heferencia ad aguesti parks-and-rides. Let's just say that we can't go on improvising even with partial measures; that's why he wants to change the model of unsustainable mobility, and that all the measure that passes per reduction of this transit..., we say that it was Barcelona Metropolitan Area at six thousand vehicles per square kilometre of density, that I was a mes nautes of Europa. Madrid had a thousand, Paris had a thousand six-cents – to give a good reference. Today park-and-rides want to plan them according to the hours of low emission restriction ofth transit integrated in a set of priority measures and impulse atth pedestrian, ath public transport service and now bicycle. It is end-of-life mobility policies consistent with a change of model that battles for protection of salvation, reducing it was energy dependence of this country and completing it is compromised by COP 21, and therefore incompatible with promoting measures of sustained mobility as they continue to expand of other infrastructures as it was the Littoral round, it was the highway of Sant Andreu - Sagrera, by way of example, or by projects such as eth PDU of peak engine space in Vallès, which dream that there is still a month, and it is increasing emissions in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.118.0	Next, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", from Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.119.0	Good morning, Counselor. Counselor, deputies, deputies... well, I'm happy with this young man. I already know that there are many things that are missing, that are not there, but the subject we are dealing with in terms of quality of the area is of great complexity, it has a lot of collateral issues, depending on questions such as mobility and, therefore, I understand that the young person could have been more ambitious, but Ciutadan's intention was to focus on a point and we looked at how to improve and extend it. So, when I'm in the legislature, we have to keep working at these points, but we've moved on and that's what's important; we've moved on – or maybe I'm very optimistic – and I think we can move on. We made a motion in 2014, as Congresswoman Mireia Boya said, that we agreed on it among all of us and that allowed us to improve the quality of the air, horizon 2020. My idea is that these points that we approve of today also allow us to improve and force the department so that it is more involved, that we already know it did, but stretching it out, that it is the work that we also have to do from the opposition. And I said I was happy, why? Why do we get, for example, the theme of park-and-rides, dissuasive parking, with the issue of transport titles; why do we get, with a transaction, the theme of public transport bonuses, which is developing within the Public Transport Finance Act, when there are episodes... Why? Because there's a point that goes back to complicating those points in the 2014 motion, and they know that a lot of those points haven't been completed yet. I had a compliment agreement here... – I already know that the legislature has fallen and that we are in another, but it is the same; it is that we last a little, the legislatures and, therefore, I think it is important that we remember everything that we have agreed on, because, if not, it is like Sisyphus: every time we have to start again, and that is neither effective nor effective – so we have to put it back in value that we have to complete what we approved in the motion that and, therefore, here we say it again and we approve it. In relation to the data of the Action Plan of the best of the quality of the area, which was one of the themes that were pending, so today we approve that the data of all inventories, maps, all statistics, energy consumption, mobility, industry are finally made public... We approve of a very important point for me, and this is what I'm going to ask the Bureau that it's readixi, that's... – and that, besides, it's a point that came out to the Table that there was a diver, to the Quality Table, isn't it? – it is that we establish a timetable to implement the measures and that we can update the Quality Plan of the area with the objectives of COP 21, and above all complete the legality for which it makes the reduction of the particles of all nitrogen oxides and PM particles because here, forgive, there is the mother of the eggs. I mean, the problem we have of air quality we know is that it's a theme derived from..., it's from mobility, basically, because the port is a little bit small, the airport too, and, therefore, what we need to reduce are NOx particles and PM. We also approve, let's deal with a point from our point of view, which was to agree with the assemblies, with the metropolitan area, to develop the low-emission areas, the low-emission areas, and this, counselor, must lead you. It has to lead the department, because each meeting cannot have different criteria, because from synergies there must be someone, in this case the department, who has the criteria to which the different meetings can be added and, therefore, this is also very related to the other point we approve, which is to improve governance. And we need to improve it, governance, to be more effective. We need to look at how we link the quality cells in the area with the cells, for example, mobility. There's the table of Barcelona, there's the table of the ATM, there's the meeting and it looks like every one of you is doing your job. I think that's a little copying, don't I? The London model, we have to try to do more: that this governance is better and that it is ever since the Generality that this impulse is given, this leadership ability, obviously putting resources there, huh? And here, therefore, we also have with the State, for example, that they also bring resources and complement the Air Plan, and I don't want to stop saying that, because there are some measures that we can't make here in Catalonia, because the Government of the State doesn't make them effective, for example, the issue of the registration of vehicles according to the level of contamination. And, therefore, we will see to it that all these points that we approve of today, and those that we do not approve, but that we are presenting, the government implementing them, is reflecting on the assumptions and there are the foundations to throw them forward. And, therefore, I take up what you said, counselor, during the inquiry of the 2_million Foundation, of the Environmental Protection Fund, which will allow us to bring all these proposals forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.120.0	Next, the words of Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.121.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, deputies, deputies, are..., in the end, the motion will be approved, will be circumscribed to some themes that make reference to public transport, as one of the measures to improve the quality of the area to the metropolitan area of Barcelona, at the conjunction of the metropolitan region. We already agree, but this is a debate..., and we agree that we have presented much more extensive statements, which provided some other questions that also affect the full, from our point of view, the better quality of the area. This isn't the first debate we have in this room, and I'm guessing it won't be the last. We are talking about a question that affects public health, yes, but that also affects the economic competitiveness of the country and, above all, of this area of Catalonia where, therefore, the highest concentration of population, and also of economic activity of the country, with obvious impacts on the quality of the area, depends on some of the questions that have already been described. We have made many plans; now, the best quality is not produced. We continue to fail to comply with the rules and emission indices set by the European Union, I no longer say those of the World Health Organization, which are still lower than that set by the European Union. So, it's telling us that the plans we have on the side of the table don't just work. I don't think they're just working, because what we need to do is a thorough review of the quality board of the area we have approved at these times, that it's a board that does everything, or basically everything, to the will of the local administrations and the group of people and the group of people in the country, and, from our point of view – we've said it from this forum to the previous legislature, we've also said it now – we need to go a step further, we need to review the quality board of the area and we don't have to rely on it all, huh? We will accompany the Government, this is the compromise of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, which this reform, this analysis that we have to do, therefore begin to incorporate some mandatory compliments measures. It cannot be – it cannot be – that the metropolitan area of Barcelona, so much better, from its point of view – and certainly, I believe – the quality of the area of this environment proposed a follow-up of measures and, as the metropolitan area has advanced, then the Barcelona City Council offering things that are not exactly the same. Therefore, here, what we ask of the Councillor and the Government of the Generality is that I lead him, that I lead this issue, that I put as a priority one of the points that I believe we agree on or that, as a minimum, they are put to the vote, that it is the governance of this whole area, and that there is a table not only of work, but of decision-making between the Government of the Government of the Generality of Catalonia, the metropolitan area, the assemblies, so as to implement, not only measures of phonological awareness, important; not only voluntary measures, of compliments of commitments; but also some elements of compulsoryity to improve the quality of the area. Because, again, it is a question of public salvation, yes; but it is also a question of economic competitiveness in this territory. That we move forward in planning the delimitation of low-emission areas in this environment, that there is an agreement..., counselor, my parliamentary group will accompany and gather the Government if we make proposals assimilated in this direction, because we play this: the salvation of the citizens, and also the economic competitiveness of this territory. All right, all right, I'm running out of time, too. I believe that we should not only have been circumscribed to public transport, important, but that this is a much more general debate that affects many vectors and many sectors of which are located in this territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.122.0	The word has Mr Carles Prats, from the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.123.0	Thank you, President. Counselling, Members, Members, the motion we are dealing with is an important and complex issue that requires a much deeper debate than we are having today, and it would be good to have the maximum support from groups in order to keep the lines of action long-term. Environmental episodes are not very common and our group would like to address the problem of air quality from a more global perspective, bearing in mind that the main problem of the metropolitan area is the value of the annual averages of nitrogen oxide levels and suspended particles less than 10 microns, even though these have been reduced in later years. During the interrogation a few days ago, Councillor Rull informed us thoroughly of the situation of the quality of the area, of the battery of activities planned in the Mobility and Quality Plan of the area, and explained to us that it is working from a holistic perspective, that it wants to involve the maximum number of entities. One of the main factors contributing to the high levels of nitrogen dioxides and suspended particles is land transport; more than 50_percent of nitrogen dioxide emissions by land transport, with data from the year 2011. The data from the Barcelona conurbation indicate that it is necessary to improve mainly the average values. Indeed, the low quality of the area is a problem that affects health, but it is a very important consequence of the lack of infrastructure that we suffer, both in the field of transport of people and goods that, incidentally, generate environmental problems, carbon dioxide emissions, responsible for the effect of climate change; of the quality of life of citizens and citizens, with their economic impact, the use of the car is because, and of safety. And we have a tragic example in yesterday's fatal accident in Montcada and Reixac. The problem of air pollution resulting from the land transit will not be solved with park-and-rides; making stations where no people are seen, as is the case with the Tarragona Camp station; or keeping the one way south of this city, or the Mediterranean corridor, which we have not yet unfolded. Unfortunately, the problem is much more basic and difficult. Certainly, it is necessary to improve access and parking at railway stations, but the problem with the funds is that there is no double path, that the frequency of trains is very low, that trains are not punctual– 58_percent of the regional ones–, that the stations are deteriorated, and that it is not the maintenance of the network, and that to do sixty_quilometres of Manresa in Barcelona is triga an hour and a half, and that many areas of the territory are patenting the investment deficit in rollers and regionals. We therefore believe that structural solutions must be provided to the endemic problem of the public transport investment deficit in our country. Infrastructures are a matter of state and it is worth it that there are broad agreements in this chamber, but also more in the municipal, social, business and state spheres. In this sense, we have, a few months ago, the Pla de migliora of the quality of the area, of the quality tables of the area of the conurbation of Barcelona, and also of the one of Tarragona; the first one was reunited last week with attendance of more than seventy participants, and that of Tarragona will do it tomorrow in the late. Mrs. Grau, this is the intention of the Government, that the prisons are coordinated by the Government, articulating, entering, with three working groups. And the next table meeting will be in place in less than three months. The problems of mobility and air quality cannot be resolved by a single administration. We now have the planning tools that will allow us to face the challenges of reducing the atmospheric pollution of the Barcelona conurbation, but also in other areas of the territory. There are measures that are working, in the line of reduction of vehicles and that these are cleaner; obviously, in the power of public transport, and many other measures that I do not have time to detail. The papers presented by the Group of Together for the Yes were in the sense of enhancing the coordination of all these plans and we have not entered into the detail of environmental episodes, because we believe that, in reality, this is not the main problem that affects the quality of the air. In any case, the feeling of the young lady, we would have liked you to have been more extensive and, for all this, we will collect the measures that are proposed, that we understand that many of them are already in the current plans. And we would like to thank the assembly of the chamber that the Government gathers to prioritise public transport and to claim the deficit of investments to the State, both in the plan of the councillor Vila – that only 2_per_cent has been executed – and, also, the appearance of the minister, the director of FIMMA, etc., to answer in front of the difficulty in which...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.124.0	Mr. Prats, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.125.0	Okay. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.126.0	To fix his position, has the word Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.127.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, counsel, well, I share the observation that one thing is the environmental episodes that, effectively, are specific moments that cause, basically, climate problems to cause episodes in which to take care of the effects of contamination, respect the overall situation of contamination and, fundamentally, where this problem is more urgent, that it is those forty municipalities of the Barcelona metropolitan area, where the concentrations of suspended particles and the concentration of nitrogen dioxide are more important. And, therefore, this is a fundamental element. But years ago there have been plans for better environmental quality; certainly less than there are obviously problems with environmental quality. And we also have to note that, years ago, we had real problems trying to assess – assess – what is the result or what is the degree of compliment of each of the measures that have been adopted. There is no difficulty in seeing what is the evolution of the levels of contaminants; in this sense, there is no difficulty because, moreover, the measures of the surveillance network are public measures and, therefore, it can be proved; but there are difficulties in knowing exactly who are the effectiveness of each of those measures that had been adopted. I will not refer to previous years where particle contamination decreased in a very important way, all coinciding with a halt in the execution of works around the Lower Llobregat. Or that, coinciding with the crisis situation, the number of vehicles circulating, also, in the metropolitan area dropped in an extraordinarily radical way, which also contributed to reducing the contamination by nitrogen dioxide. Therefore, even though it is not easy – and it is not easy – we will try to make these assessments of the measures that are Vaginal adopted possible, already through the direct way of the Government, and, if not, then we will try to do so through the indirect way, on the part of the tools that we have at our disposal by parliamentary groups. In this young man it makes a special emphasis on public transport and seems good to us. It seems to us well because we are fully aware that the problem of pollution is not exclusively a public transport problem, but that the greatest volume of pollution is due, in principle, to emissions from private vehicles and to the concentration of private vehicles. But it is also true that, before we do not require users of private vehicles to make a determined effort to reduce and control levels of contamination, such as the Administration, the administrations, all of them – it is not a single administration, as it was before, in the previous intervention, but all of them – all administrations must make the necessary and sufficient efforts to ensure that there are adequate alternatives to private transport. And when there are suitable alternatives to private transport – that is to say, there are sufficient alternatives to public transport – then it is when citizens can be required to use public transport instead of private transport, making it much more attractive. And, in this sense, our group will give support to the motion, to the proposals that are incorporated into the motion, while affirming something that we believe is relevant, because, in the end, it will not be so important the fact that this motion has been approved...; I have not seen it approved... – Mrs Grau, yes, I look at you, moreover – I have not seen it approve many, of the motions, in relation to the quality of the area – and I say look at the lady Grau because, how did the plans of better environmental quality begin to appear with the tripartite... –, many are the motions that have been approved in this House on the best of environmental quality and very few that have actually been completed over time. Therefore – I was going to say – it will be much more important that the approval of the same motion the fact that we can prove that, indeed, the content of the motion has been supplemented. All right, all right, Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.128.0	In order to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms Marina Bravo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.129.0	Thank you, Madam President. It was criticized here that many things have been approved and that few have been fulfilled. If this motion succeeds, as we hope, the fact that we have limited the content will make it much easier for us to verify its compliance. Of course, we're not going to take his eye off. We were told that this motion is designed for specific situations that take place very few days a year. It is true that it is designed to be able to face those days but, if we are prepared for those specific days, we will have infrastructures that will allow us to make use of them every day; if we have where to leave the vehicles those days that are mandatory or much more recommended, we will be able to do so every day as well. The problem is that, right now, there is nothing prepared, and so we cannot think about restricting vehicle access or many other things. We could have put a lot more stuff on the motion. Junts pel Yes, he proposed that the whole plan be fulfilled and other groups proposed many measures; some of them, in fact, were already included in the plan; we have had a lot of work in reviewing which yes and which not. We did not want to call for a comprehensive plan to be re-implemented with an infinite number of measures, the main complaint being that they are not carried out. That's why we were asking for a few concrete things: a few that are in the plan and a few new ones. All groups have proposed many measures. So that the motion did not become a toast to the sun, we wanted to focus only on those related to the first objective of the plan, but we will continue to work and we will propose measures for each of the other objectives: in industry, in ports, in airports. We also agree with what has been said that there is a need for cooperation between administrations. The ball cannot be thrown either up or down, as in this case; environmental pollution does not understand borders and we must work together. We'll be happy to see how they do it. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.130.0	We're calling it a vote. [[Hortênsia Grau Juan asks to speak.]] Mrs. Grau, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.131.0	Thank you, President. To ask that, before voting, you read point 8. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.132.0	Before the vote we shall proceed to the reading of item 8, as requested. I'll do the secretary lady Ramona Barrufet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.133.0	« Point Eight: To establish an urgent implementation schedule for the measures described above, which updates the 2020 Area Quality Plan coordinated with the objectives of COP 21 and insoles, in order to be able to complement the existing legality, reduction, 2020, of 35_percent of nitrogen oxides and 30_percent of PM10 particles.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.134.0	Let us now proceed to the vote of the honourable Member. The vote begins. It was adopted by 134 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the exceptional historical moment]] [[302-00024/11]] As two parliamentary groups have called for the alteration of the agenda in the sense that the seven-point vote following the question to the Government on the exceptional political moment, they have asked that it not be substantiated in this plenary session, according to Rule 81.3 of the Rules of Procedure, a vote is proposed so that the plenary agrees whether or not this item is kept on the agenda. Before, however, and as requested by the Board of Spokesmen, the groups have two minutes each to express the position of their parliamentary group on this issue. It has the word, to begin with, the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. There's a word from Mr. Carlos Carrizosa. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] With vulgui – with vulgui, with vulgui.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.135.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.136.0	If you want to come here, you can come here, huh? As you wish...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.137.0	No, it's the same, I'll do it from here, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.138.0	Not here. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.139.0	Yeah, yeah; I think, I think it's better because what we're going to say, I think it's pretty obvious. Are you going to allow me to defend before I explain the objection I am going to find in the rest of the speakers, which is, what is a Parliament, but a place of debate? Can't we discuss it? Yes, we can discuss it. We can debate and, in fact, the independence of Catalonia, the indifference and the separation of the State, is being debated every day in all the forums: starting with this Parliament, following through the public media, in the streets, in the museums, in the textbooks, in twenty-thousand books that you can find in the kiosks. It's no taboo, we've discussed it and we'll discuss it a thousand times. What we believe, like the legal services of this chamber, is that what is not the subject of debate is whether or not the law is complied with, whether it contradicts democracy and the rule of law. That, coinciding with the legal services of the chamber, this sought-after and direct confrontation with the Constitutional Court, is what we believe, like the legal services of the chamber, that should not be the subject of discussion today the fact of attacking democracy and the rule of law in a legislative chamber, which is what we are going to do today and so this group has asked that this be omitted from the agenda, in the same way, I remember, as the legal services of this chamber. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.140.0	Next, the words of Mrs Eva Granados, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.141.0	Thank you, President. We will vote in favour of changing the agenda. I do not want to do the debate on the content of the motion now, because I believe that this debate will finally be produced, but I do want to mention it, and that it is also in the diary of sessions, so what we have been told so far by the readers about this question, and therefore a formal question. The report of the letters of 15 December on the effects of the judgment stated that the judgment predetermines the unconstitutionality of nine related or causally related initiations. This was a legal report, from now on, we only have documents. On the record of the Bureau, of March 29th – which the chairman of my group refers to yesterday – again say the following: "The effects of the sentence and its obligation of compliment would affect the processing and adoption of resolutions of natural nature similar to the resolution declared unconstitutional or of much contingencies coincident or seeming, especially those that insist on the political project expressed in Resolution 1/XI, regardless of the constitutional reform. And, lastly, in the minutes of the Bureau, which is still before the Bureau of this Tuesday, where the re-examination of the motion submitted by my group is dismissed, again warns the readers of the chamber that "if the text of the motion is approved with the wording presented or appearing – and it is obvious that what will be put to the vote is very similar – "you can see that the compliment of the sentence is compromised. We want to put into replenishment what we are saying, not in legal reports, because I have to say, and we want to put into replenishment, that the president and the Bureau have denied the Socialist Group, and also the rest of the groups, legal reports that we have asked for, legal reports that should support the decision of the Bureau to forward both the motion and the transaction that you intend to vote on at these times. And we believe that if they don't ask them, they may know that what is about to happen in this Parliament is this institution outside the law. Also...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.142.0	Mrs. Granados, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.143.0	I'm done fast... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.144.0	I'm having a hard time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.145.0	Well, so... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.146.0	It's hard to tell, it's run out of time. [[Greetings.]] Next, has the word Mr. Joan Coscubiela, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.147.0	Thank you, Madam President. Our group, Catalonia Yes, it's Pot, let's ratify what we've been saying and doing for these weeks. We do not agree with the motion presented, but we do not do anything or do anything to make your debate difficult. But we do not raise the exclusion from the agenda does not mean that we do not recognise the right of other parliamentary groups to raise it legitimately. The freedom of the directors and directors persecuted for acts of political nature we defend it as if it were our own, and the rights of the other parliamentary groups, despite the fact that there are groups with which we confront each other, on many occasions, are rights that we defend as if they were our own. The Bureau, with its decisions, does not take the rights of these parliamentarians and, moreover, I am sorry, is degrading the Parliament of Catalonia. There are three important decisions that have been taken in this sense in the service of a partisan strategy and of the balance between two groups that give the majority to the Government: that of 9 November, that of the Plenipotentiary of 9 November; the creation of joint ponies, and, today, the one they are taking at this time. But with an aggravating, today, and it is that they have always been in the service of a political strategy, but as it is giving the circumstance that Junts' political strategy for the Yes has varied during these seven days, the Bureau has also varied its decision in a follow-up manner with this partisan strategy. And that can never be done, the Bureau, because it degrades this institution irreversibly. I regret to say, but who has the greatest responsibility to guarantee the moral authority of this chamber, not just before the world, but above all, before the citizens of Catalonia, is the least to guarantee this moral authority required by Parliament. I'm done. Each of our samaretes we carry today represents one of the many social problems that this chamber should be discussing at this very moment, instead of discussing only the balances between Junts for the Yes and the Cup, instead of raising smoke, smoke, smoke, because there is no fire. With us I do not intend to continue degrading the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.148.0	The word has the Lord Enric Millo, of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.149.0	Thank you, Madam President. The People's Parliamentary Group asked – it did yesterday, at the beginning of this plenary – that the debate and vote on the motion presented for the UPC is swallowed from the agenda. And we did it for two reasons, basically: the first, by legal and legal logic, and, the second, also by social coexistence. We had the hope, listened to the Bureau of Parliament, that today we would not vote on a motion that imposes on the Members the obligation to vote on something that goes directly against the law, and that plays head-on with a ruling of the Constitutional Court, that cancels a resolution that this motion claims to revive. And we wanted to do it, and we had this confidence, because we wanted to listen, from the words of the same President of Parliament, that this young man, as he had been presented, would not be able to admit to the petition, and conditioned the admission to the petition to the fact that he was modified. We didn't hear this system, because it was new. But today we still understand that the content of this motion has not been substantially altered and that this substantial element of direct confrontation with a ruling of the Constitutional Court has been maintained, and that the Bureau has changed its criteria without explaining why – because the resolution it has made does not explain it – you admit it to trial and allow the Parliament of Catalonia to be used in a perverse and partisan way, imposing on the Members of this House to vote for something that goes directly against democracy, against the rule of law and against the rules of the game that we have, all of them, established. And that connects with the second reason, which is that of social coexistence. We are here defending this coexistence, and we are here defending the state of law, and the standards that guarantee this coexistence, and we don't want to feed from Parliament..., and we don't want this hemicicle to be used to feed this fact that Convergence, Left and CUP are generating. You're coming in...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.150.0	Mr. Millo, you've run out of time. I'm having a hard time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.151.0	To finish... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.152.0	No, it's that I put him in three minutes, Mr. Millo, because I don't have two minutes here. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, it's hard for me. They've all had the same time, all of them. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, because there's not two minutes. [[Greetings.]] Next, has the word Ms. Anna Gabriel, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.153.0	Yes, good morning, everyone. We, of course, will not defend that the point is removed from the order of the day. We are the holders of the motion and we reaffirm and ratify, of course, all and every one of its contents. Second of all, that's why, and I suppose the most important reason, is that for us it will never operate like the copyrighted state. Legality is not a limit when we are right, when we have hope and when we have a democratic yearning ahead. And, plus, we'll do it without. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.154.0	Next, has the word Ms. Marta Rovira, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.155.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mirin, here, last November 9th we started, through a young man, the beginning of the process towards independence, after having obtained a democratic mandate from the polls on September 27th, which is a majority in the Parliament of Catalonia and has a political agreement to push it forward. You now claim that... after having appealed, some of you, to the Constitutional Court with a judgment that respected this young man, what you claim is nullified the democratic mandate that we have in our hands. That's what you're trying to do: consider null and void. So, today we are bringing back another motion that, in terms of purpose and content and measures, what it does is to close the democratic, legitimate and legal mandate that we got to the polls on 27 September. And that's why today we're going to bring him back, and we're going to bring back, as many times as you need, those measures to implement this democratic mandate. And let me point out: democracy is the only instrument we have in our hands to overcome certain legal marks that we consider to be obsolete, and we will continue to do so. We believe that neither the Bureau nor the Board of Spokesmen, in accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, should assess the political content of parliamentary initiatives that are being conducted in this Parliament. They can only enter it, says the Rules of Parliament, in two points: to prove the consistency of the motion respects the inquiry and to prove whether the motion has a censure to the Government. This has been done, the motion must be allowed to proceed, and it is in this plenary, today and now, that it must be debated without a win and mark the political position of each parliamentary group and carry out the vote, according to the political positions of each individual. Debate, democracy, debate must take place in this plenary. So what we are asking is that we continue the process, that we debate and that we proceed to the vote on this motion. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.156.0	Next, we vote. The vote is as follows: those who vote will be in favour of excluding this item from the agenda; those who vote will not be in favour of continuing with the agenda. Okay? [[Pause.]] Therefore, the vote begins. The vote will continue on the agenda with 52 votes in favour and 71 against. Therefore, the seven point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the exceptional historical moment, presented for the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. To expose her, Mr. Joan Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.157.0	Are you right? [[You're looking for the bottom and the rialles.]] No problem, no problem, no problem... [[Greetings.]] Thank you, President. Thank you, Members. The truth is that, after all the laughter and what we have heard on the part of the groups opposed to being able to debate this young man here today, the words of the Ovidi Montllor came to me, those who say that "they are the same people who do not want to be written, do not want to be spoken and do not want to be thought. I'm telling you honestly. I mean, I don't understand how people who are in favor of me talking, writing and thinking can today, so stop this young man's debate in this Parliament. Therefore, we will not give thanks for being able to defend it, nor ask for forgiveness for having presented it; to do so, we believe, would be a huge loss to this Parliament, to its sovereignty and an insult to democracy. I'm using words that you used to negatively value the presentation of this motion. The motion that you are well aware of: placed in this Parliament before the actions of the Constitutional Court, before the National Court, before the Prosecutor's Office and all its actions aimed at preventing the Catalan people from legitimately wanting to do so; reiterates its commitment to the objectives and contents of the 9 November declaration; supports the investigated and criminalized assemblies for their support for the declaration, and specific actions and actions relating to the proceedings constitute. For our part, therefore, for the group CUP - Crida Constituent it is important that the motion is, today and now, here debated and installed in consideration of this chamber. The papers presented by the parliamentary groups together for the Yes and the derivative transactions make the motion that we present not only express itself to the one that as a group led us to present it, but that, moreover, I believe, takes the flight that any group wants to have the motions that it presents. It is to say that it has a clear political position, that it is approved by a majority and that this approval is taken into account for the action of the Government, of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. There has been a debate in advance of this young man, notors, public, said himself before, and outside this parliamentary place, with a clear will, we believe, to discredit not only the young man, but also the group that presents it. They have put themselves in the mouth of so many considerations that they have nothing to do with us and with our wishes to present this young man. We would therefore like to explain who the reasons are, why we present this young man and what is the real content of this second. The reasons of this young man are neither provoking, showing profile, nor making public gestures, nor yet less willing to hurt or deepen in the differences and complexity that we feel those groups that are compromised with the democratic mandate of 27 September and with the compliment of the 9-N declaration and its annexes. We have not come to Parliament either to make political gestures or to show profile; we go face-to-face, and our reasons for being and being in this Parliament are good enough, among others, to carry the will, the voice of popular movements, and to be a process accelerator, proactive in everything that refers to the process and sensitive, very sensitive, in any show of resignation or deceleration of the process. In this Parliament, in this legislature, we have signed agreements and we have commitments, but these agreements and commitments have, we have said it several times, three names, three words, three intentions: independence, processes constitute and social rescue. These are the reasons to be in this Parliament on behalf of the CUP and this is where you find our young man's reasons. I repeat: neither to provoke, nor to show profile, nor to make political gesticulations, but simply to support, to work to create the foundations of the new Catalan Republic, which is a great objective, and to reiterate once more, and the times that you need, our compromise with the contents and objectives of 9 November. The young lady, as she wanted to sell, is not an afer between partners, companies, no; it is not an afer that can settle with a liaison committee. We are neither partners nor politicians between bamboos; we are two parliamentary groups which have been compromised with a mandate, that of 27 September, with a declaration, that of 9-N, and, therefore, committed, as I said, to laying the foundations of what the new Catalan republic is to be. And before this compromise there can be disagreement, there can be opposition, but it is not fair, I believe, neither the disbelief nor the trivialization of it politically. This motion is the conclusion of an inquiry that we made in the past plenary and in it we showed in a way and unequivocally that this legislature, for us, was not normal, nor did we pretend, nor did we want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.158.0	Mr. Garriga, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.159.0	I'm sorry, then. This young man – I finish –, along with what has been said, and some have helped to publish, they demand nothing but the emphasis on the needs we observe, courage in the response of the embattery and find the proper time of our political action, a fight for freedom and dignity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.160.0	To defend the papers presented, has the word Lord Lluís Llach, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.161.0	Good morning. Last week he was listening to prophesied in this society that the greeds between the different independence groups would get red-headed by the captives of this Parliament. But from yesterday to late the screenplay changed: we went from color cinema to black and white cinema. The panorama has gone wrong, and from the benches of unionists and scissors, discussions are now only being heard about whether we are legal or not legal, or at what temperature to put Pere Botero's boilers so that the independenceists are well heated. And do you know why, this change of scenery? So, you're clear, because with this young man, the seventy-two deputies who make the majority independent in this chamber, we confirm that we are still moving forward, that we are totally compromised with the democratic mandate of the polls, and that we are ultimately here to do what we said we would do, and that's why the voters of this country chose us. We're in the dynamics of facts and not statements. As I said in Jordi Turull on the day of President Puigdemont's investiture, we don't have to, because we move the illusion, because we move the conviction. And that is why, from Juntes per el Si, we are pleased to see, and every day more strongly, that we have a government that is working for a new country, and that does so, of a band, building structures of state such as the own heritage, the foundational column of the future republic, and, from the other band, due to political terms that already apply the mandate of 27 September, such as, for example, the Councillor of Health, lawmaking different from the State driving a decree that will facilitate the universal right to salvation. And that's future and that's day by day. The Councillor of Justice has sent to this Parliament the draft law of the Catalan Civil Code's text with the aim of being able to exercise all the powers in this field, replacing Spanish law in this matter, and this is future and also day by day. The social adviser is moving forward in the Catalan Social Protection Agency to manage everything that is close to the social protection of the Catalan government, and this is future and, above all – above all – it is day by day. And the territorial councillor, in legislating a policy of the ingenious repte of climate change. And the president and our advisor – and minister – of Afers Exterior, are continuously receiving prominent members of the diplomatic body, and, in the case of President Puigdemont, de facto acting as a state in the unfortunate accident of Freginals, yes. And all the government in full, working together with citizens' groups and entities, has a quick attitude of conscience and helps in the flagrant case of refugees, before the ineptitude, also flagrant, of the Spanish State. This is also future and it is also urgent day by day. As I said, we are in the dynamics of events, and that is why in this Parliament our majority has also begun to implement the mandate of 27 September, creating the legal frameworks necessary to advance towards the republic: the approval of 9 November, the beginning of the processing of the three questions of the fundamental laws of the process, the creation of the Study Commission – of study – of the Constituent Process, and finally, this motion. This young man also serves us to proclaim our support and solidarity to all the assemblies, mayors and governors, today investigated and criminalized for having shown support for the declaration of November 9. Let them know: we will not leave them alone. And I say this so convinced that from here I announce that I am going to Verges, that it is my people, to accompany and sympathize with their mayor, the Ignasi, who is persecuted to be faithful to their convictions and to their electorate. And that's day by day, but above all it's future. Amen. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.162.0	Please, we must continue with the Ple, please. [[Pause.]] To fix his position, has the word Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.163.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a sad day for self-government in Catalonia; it is the day that the anti-system party takes the lead in Catalan politics and the day that the government parties that once occupied centrality in Catalonia kneel to the demands of the anti-system party. And what is being antisystem? To say things like, for example, those that Mrs Anna Gabriel said today: "Legality is not the limit when we have reason. That justifies everything; the belief that they are right justifies everything, I suppose. Also going to see Otegi in jail, I guess. [[Greetings.]] The day when in contravention of the legal services of the chamber, today is the day that is being processed to a resolution that seeks the direct and unnecessary conflict with the Constitutional Court and the rule of law in Spain. I read the opinion of the Chamber expressed and contained in the Minutes, the opinion of the Chamber's lawyers, expressed on 29 March last, and contained in the minutes of the Bureau meeting: "In a supposition such as the one put forward by the motion – this motion – "this one would not have admitted's to trial because of the obligation that they have all the public powers to comply with the judgments of the Constitutional Court. This is what the camera lawyers said. It is not a question, as we said before, of whether or not this item should be discussed on the agenda, it is not a question of discussing independence, which we are..., we have done so many times. I was going to say 'we're tired of doing that, but... some of us are; we'd like to talk about other things. And it is not just the opinion of this group that there are things that do not fit into the parliamentary debate, as I have explained before. President Puigdemont himself, just yesterday, when we were debating the shameful Koiné manifesto, said textually – and so it is in the transcripts of the chamber –: "This is an academic debate in which this Parliament must not enter. And he reiterated: "There is no entry, because the position of this Parliament on the value of languages and on linguistic rights is perfectly defined. There are things, for Mr Puigdemont, "that this Parliament should not enter, but it can be seen that it must enter into direct confrontation with the rule of law. Today, unfortunately, the Catalan institutions have lost all credibility, have made national and international ridicule, have endangered Catalonia's self-government. How can we, from now on, ask citizens to obey the laws, to comply with the rules, to pay their taxes, to drive with prudence? How are we going to have the authority to enforce fines, to punish those who fail to comply with the laws, if our institutions here skip sentences and laws? How are we gonna do this? With what authority? What authority does this Government have that has signed a motion with the UPCs asking the Mossos d'Esquadra not to comply with the requirements of the National Court? What authority? Who are putting officials at risk with their secessionist adventures, who are embarking officials on their separatist impulses, what authority do they have after failing to comply with sentences and laws? What authority do they have to demand that no one respect the laws? And, look, when you don't comply with the Constitutional Court; or when, for example, you don't comply with a law of flags in the municipalities, or you don't comply with a full number of municipalities... we're not just talking about whether you don't comply with a constitutional or flag law; we're talking about respect for democracy, respect for fellow citizens who don't think like that councilman or mayor who enforces his law, his reason, Mrs. Anna Gabriel's reason, that when Mrs. Anna Gabriel, or the CUP, is right, the others, then, have nothing else to do with going through the tube of what their representatives decide. And that is the style, unfortunately, that is now being imposed in Catalonia with this joint motion between Junts pel Si and the CUPs. Look, in Ciutadans we respect all citizens who legitimately feel independent and who dream of making a better country, but we can't respect jumping under the laws. A new political era is now opening up in Spain. If you have any real interest...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.164.0	Mr. Carrizosa, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.165.0	... if you have... – I finish now, Madam President – if you have a real interest in citizens living better, do not continue to undermine the environment and seek permanent and unnecessary conflict with the rule of law and with democracy; give time to political change and participate in it with the reformist and progressive political parties, in the reforms of Spain, and not with parties that are anti-system and lead us to the loss of our self-government. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.166.0	Next, the words of Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.167.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors and Councillors, Members and Members of Parliament, and the people who accompany us from the public, we attended, about 15 days ago, in the celebration of the final plenary session, an inquiry by Congressman Garriga to the Neus Munté, which was a very interesting, but mutually harmless, reflection, which would allow me to say so, that at that time we had the feeling of being present at a debate, let us say, of versallesca politee, or, since today we have made reference to the subject, perhaps of Florentine fineness, but in any case we have not just seen in which it could be concluded. Fortunately, Parliament's Rules of Procedure say that twenty-four hours after the inquiry had to be filed and, reading the text, we came out of doubt. Much as legitimate, obviously, the aspirations of the CUP - Creed Constituent, we must necessarily interpret this motion as a double exercise. In fact, in Mr. Garriga's intervention today, there was a part that we are about to say. For one band, there was an examination of the Junts' determination for the Yes, a formation with which you, one way or another, affirm it, have a parliamentary stability agreement; an examination, I said, of the determination to disobey, to pursue compromises with that which Resolution 1/XI, of 9 November, of the Parliament of Catalonia established. And, on the other hand, a strategy that is not unknown to anyone who pretends, let's say, to force the postures of a given order with which it does not fit, with which it does not agree, so it has always found, that it is a strategy of legitimity, to force, to see how far it is possible to maintain a situation in which it does not enter the chain, to say so, of action-reaction, action-reaction. There are all two logics in this young man, who from a practical point of view does not alter the political situation of the blockade in which Catalonia is located. Because, from the practical point of view, if it comes to approval, it does nothing but reiterate the validity of something that has been declared unconstitutional for the Constitutional Court and leaves us in an identical situation to which we had on 9 November, with the only exception, which seems to us to be relevant, that it is to have put the Catalan institutions very much in the mood..., if not directly outside the scope of the solutions that the right and the state of law can provide, and to put it or, let us say it, to focus on a way in which the solutions that can be provided come by the way of fact, that it seems that it is for which the CUP is bet and appears to be the one that will gather together for the Yes. To us this seems, let us say, irresponsible and also unnecessary, because we believe that the state of law and a democracy such as Spain, as imperfect as any of those that are homologable to it in the space of Western Europe, have possible solutions to the aspirations that part of Catalonia's citizenry claims to respect the fact of being consulted around the question of secession. But, look, it's that some hard things have happened; because, presented the motion, we saw a rather peculiar decision of the Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia, to admit to carrying out this motion conditionally. Discarded questions of formal fall, which certainly could not be the cause of this conditional acceptance, only those who have to deal with the content remain. Today, Mrs Rovira, a while ago, illustrated us with respect to the fact that the Bureau has to, let us say, prove that the motion is consistent with the question – from this point of view there could be no objection – and that there is no motion of censure – from this point of view there could be no objection. What was the condition? The condition that actually existed is that there was an agreement between Junts for the Yes and the CUP. Because the condition respects the fact that the ruling of the Constitutional Court is not contrary to the fact that the Constitutional Court has not been annoyed by the text they have agreed to in transaction Joints for the Yes and the UPC. The only condition that actually existed here is that you produce an agreement between Junts for the Yes and the CUP. And that's one of the things that's really been hard about everything that's been going on these days: that the Bureau and its majority, especially, have put themselves to the service that you have an agreement between Juntes for the Yes and the CUP, which you say nothing about in favor of the institutions of this country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.168.0	Next, has the word Mr. Joan Coscubiela, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.169.0	Thank you, Madam President. One of the most significant contributions of Pujolism to Catalan politics, more than that of fraud and tax evasion, has been that of floral fires; you already understand me: a barrage of artificial fires and floral games that Pujolism always set in march before, during or after moments of great political pragmatism, of great renunciations. I'm afraid we're ahead of one of these floral fire drills. It all points out that some are preparing for the hyperrealism of the presuppositional debate, and to get over some continuistic assumptions, the games..., the floral fires of this young man. Catalonia's Opinion Yes, it's Pot about the 9-N resolution is well-known and clear: we were going to vote against it, because we think it makes us feel like a people in our demands and leads us to a cul-de-sac. And we wanted to put forward our alternative, which we believe modestly responds to the democratic aspirations of Catalan society and proposes a viable full route and able to apply a vast majority of the citizenry; a proposal that we once again offer to all the political and social forces of Catalonia. We have said many times, and we ratify it today, that the resolution of 9 November was born dead, and you, the majority of the Government, confirm it every day that they pass: they vote unilateral disconnection, but they practice the connection to the FLA; they vote disobedience to the Constitutional Court and they do not stop presenting us constitutional remedies before the court; they announce on 9 November three bills of law of disconnection, do not present them and they add themselves to the joint petitions. Do you want to develop the resolution of 9 November, despite the ruling of the Constitutional Court? They do it, but they do it once in a while, with facts, not with statements that they say they don't do it. That's the reality. You've gotten used to nedaring and storing the stuff, bathing and wanting to get out dry, announcing all the trout in the world without a sun or a sun. And while practicing long-standing, continuous policies, dressed in new forms, adorned with the mysticism of unilateral disconnection and disobedience. And to do so, they have no problem subtlying the Catalonian Parliament to an unsustainable process of institutional degradation. And I don't know what's going to happen in the future, but if we keep going around here, I know we'll end up paying a lot of money. In a_me the Bureau has ignored two times the reports of the Legal Servants of the Parliament. The Bureau agreed last week to the admission of this motion subject to its modification with respect to the Constitutional Court, and that was not raised by Catalonia Yes it is Pot and another group, this was proposed by the members of Junts for the Yes to the Bureau. They are the ones who decided to subterre 'the Constitutional Court, the same ones who are now setting up again a motion that repeats their disobedience. I am sorry – I am sorry – but you promise daily disobedience to the Constitutional Court and to practice the only disobedience that we see in Catalan politics is disobedience to Parliament and its legal services. That's the reality. Miri, with all the sincerity of the world, this is a mutual survival pact. As more triguen to assume and to explain to the citizenry that what is promised on September 27th and to agree on November 9th has no chance of viability, the more it will degrade this situation. They spend the whole day invoking the process, but in practice they have learned from any tangible content for the people the process; they only invoke to survive you politically. I cease to use Parliament to resolve its coalition conflicts, its stings, instead of dedicating it to debate and bring solutions to the problems of the citizenry. I don't know who I've been looking at directly at who I think has the greatest responsibility at these times, because with independence from who this young man has presented, from whom he has then agreed, who has the greatest responsibility at this time to prevent Catalonia from going to a situation where after a long time we end up paying the consequences so that the process doesn't advance, the situation of social emergence doesn't approach, but in turn the conditions for moving forward in our national and social demands, he is the president of the Generality; he is. I know the judge didn't introduce you, I know you're the enforcer and not the legislature, but you know you're also responsible for what's going on. For all these reasons, because we have left our position very clear, because we will again offer them an alternative to rebuild a path that is viable and, at the same time, we will not be able to attract as many people as possible, because above all we do not want to contribute with our behavior to further degrade the Parliament of Catalonia, our group will not participate in the votes of this young man. We do not want to contribute that, to save you, degrade this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.170.0	Next, the words of Mr Xavier García Albiol, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.171.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, especially Mr Puigdemont, the motion we are debating today is a motion that is a great lie. She's so lied, Mr. Llach, like Mr. Romeva is the Foreign Minister; look if she's lied – look if she's lied. It is a motion which is intended to ratify the objectives which were stated in the resolution of 9 November, when that resolution does not exist, when that resolution has been annulled. They are, Mr Puigdemont, living in a virtual world. Mr Puigdemont and independent lords, you live in the world of Matrix. It is unacceptable that, with the problems that exist at these times here in Catalonia, this Parliament is devoting time to discussing issues that do not exist, that are unreal and that are only part of the priority on the part of society. This young man, and what you decided today with the majority that you have, has the same value – and I'll tell you – as a bit of Monopoly's Euros. This young man will discuss it here, applaud him, but when he comes out on the street he will not serve as a king. It's a self-throll to your own parish, it's a self-throll to people who legitimately believe in the project you're venturing. They're keeping them happy and fooled, and it's about time we started putting the dots on them. Today we approve a proposal, like the goddess, which says that we will « give support, « create an action plan to encourage participation, « create an economic game to encourage civic participation for the independence process... I suppose that this economic part will be allocated to entities like the National Assembly of Catalonia, which gives, among other issues, EUR 175,000 to Hisenda, right? 'Cause I can keep it running. But there is one question that is true: the motion has no validity, this motion serves absolutely nothing, because when we leave this plenary session, this afternoon, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the other and the other, Catalonia will remain Spain, no matter how much it weighs them. But it is true that it provokes, that it serves for three things. The first, so that at international level there is still the perplexity of what is happening in Catalonia; that in Catalonia we are dedicated to being reinventing ourselves and approving motions that go against the rule of law, while this week the European Central Bank was announcing that it is willing to finance all the autonomous communities except Catalonia, because they do not trust you. And here you are presenting motions for disconnection and motions for independence. The second aspect for which this motion is used is to create false expectations, false expectations for those people, for those men and women of good faith who are independentists, and to provoke fatigue for the rest of the Catalan population. This also serves the purpose of this motion. And the third and last point: it also serves to close definitively, Mr Puigdemont, the doors to a possible budget agreement. A motion which envisages that an item will be included to finance the plan of action of citizen participation of the constituent process, to allocate the money of all Catalans to finance this project, is the best sign that you do not want to reach agreements with those we believe that the priorities of Catalonia go in another direction. So, three goals, which is the worst. I'd ask you, Mr. Puigdemont, gentlemen of the majority... the CUP, I know it's to preach in the desert, huh? , is to preach in the desert; but, among you, I know that there are people with common sense and that when they are in private they make you a series of reflections that show their concern. I would ask you, Mr Puigdemont, Mr Junqueras..., that now it was raining, you, here at the press wheel, that Minister Montoro says that we have to retail..., lied! Minister Montoro doesn't say we have to cut corners, he says we have to spend money well, and he says that money has to be spent on less independence and more hospitals; that's what Minister Montoro is saying. So, well, as I said, I'm sure the vast majority...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.172.0	Mr. García Albiol, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.173.0	I'm done – I'm done –, Madam President. As I said, I'm sure the vast majority of Catalans vote for what they vote for, what they prefer is less independence and more money for hospitals and waiting lists. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.174.0	To pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.175.0	Thank you very much. Well, deputies, deputies, to be paper mullat, God forbid, the reaction. The day you have the proclamation paper of the Catalan Republic, I don't know what you will do. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, but for us... I'm saying it because... And, Mr. Carrizosa, it's not true that you can talk about everything, you yourselves criticized the PP for the weak, because you didn't ban 9-N. It's not true, it's not true that you can talk about everything – it's not true. But for us, it is not all the same in this debate and in this fight for the freedom we give of justice and the dignity of the Catalan people. Our group thinks there are groups that, along with managing unfair legality, huh? Like the left of this country, we should... we should be worried about walking together and doing this fight together. This is a landscape that we see and that we want when we draw the time of independence: process constitutes, social rescue, decision-making everything, to the water... But all this, without disobedience, many of these things that you lead to samarreta are not possible – they are not possible. [[Greetings.]] No, no... And these wills..., these wills that you carry and that we ask from this rostrum, and from this rostrum we manifest, we do not want them nor can we make them alone, but we will do so with all those who let us be and manifest ourselves as we are, even though after all they say to us, "anti-system and everything. We are and want to be free in a just world, and we will do so with all those people who want to accompany us in this fight and in the process of national and social liberation of the Catalan countries. Mirin, the adversarial, determination and compromise; to the State and its invested, determination, compromise, disobedience and mobilization, and before the people and before the world, determination, compromise, disobedience, mobilization, coherence and credibility. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.176.0	We call for a vote, but I think they're all here. Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.177.0	To ask for a separate vote on points 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-07-1302.178.0	Okay. Looks like they can vote. We'll start by voting these two separate points, 3 and 4, and then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] We'll start by voting point number three. The vote begins. It was rejected by 10 votes to 52, with 61 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number four. The vote begins. It was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 113 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 71 votes to 52, with no abstentions. The session's up. [[Greetings.]]
