ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.1.0	The session begins. The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is enclosed in the folder. In accordance with Rule 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning as the first item on the agenda of this plenary session. I would also like to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, for this plenary session, Congresswoman Alicia Romero Llano of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has delegated her vote, for the sake of motherhood, to the spokesman of her group, Mrs Eva Granados and Mrs Galiano. [[Greetings to new Members]] I would also like to greet the new Members who are joining us today: Mrs Maria Rosell and Mr Carles Prats, of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes. [[Ask the Government about the closure of the foreign internment centre]] [[310-00003/11]] The first point of the order of the day are questions with oral answer. Time per question: five minutes. Ask the government. He asked the Government to respond orally on the forecasts for the VISC+ project. The question is posed by Mr. Albano Dante Fachin, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] We can change the order, yes; we ask question number 2: question to answer orally about the locking of the center d'internament d'étrangers. The question is posed by Mrs Mireia Vehí, from the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.2.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. The past 30 generation there has been a mobilization, drawn forward for the platform Tank the CIE and for many of the entities of human rights of Catalonia, to demand the closure of the Centre d'Internament d'Estrangers de Barcelona, a center that in less than five years has taken three lives and has received more than a dozen complaints for ill-treatment and for cruel, inhuman or degrading tracts. This very Parliament, the July of last year, approved a resolution requiring its closure. We want to ask the government if it will be valid and, even if it does not have competitions, it will take a step forward for the defense of human rights and close the Centre d'Internament d'Estrangers de la Zona Franca. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.3.0	Reply by Mr. Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.4.0	Good morning, President; good morning. The Government which makes its own are the conclusions of the Commission of Justice, which at the end of the previous legislature has already agreed to stand in favour of the closure and, therefore, to remind who has the competence, that it is the Government of the State, that proceeds to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.5.0	Ask Mrs. Mireia Vehi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.6.0	Thank you, Counselor. In this very resolution it was said that it was to be, it was recommended that it was the Squadron's Squadron's Squadron Squadron that made the relevant investigations when there was a complaint of maltreatment, because it was intended to guarantee independence in relation to the National Police Squadron. However, we ask ourselves how the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. And not only that, but the agent who filed this complaint is an agent who was sentenced in 2008 on hold for a few acts of injury to three young people and who was accused by the court of disproportionate and unsustainable acts. Therefore, we ask ourselves what mechanisms the government intends to hold, of control of the antidisturbing brigade of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, in the same week that this government and the same councillor of Interior have had to ask forgiveness of the city Nicola Tanno and have had to compensate him because he lost an eye with motion of the impact of a rubber ball that favored the same antidisturbing thing of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. How long will the officers of the squadron's anti-disturbing squad force last? Until we see people who have lost their eyes, lesions, and pales? End when? Until when does the government of the Generalitat plan to let the riot squad out of control? Which control mechanisms think to pull forward so that the riot squad, like...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.7.0	Time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.8.0	...public that you are...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.9.0	...speaker. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.10.0	Surely you have already agreed that I am the Counselor of Justice and, therefore, these questions probably you wanted to address to the Counselor of the Interior. I, in relation to what he was bringing us to today's question, have to reiterate to him what the government's position is in relation to the internment centre. In fact, the internment centre of foreigners that has been in Barcelona for a few months is closed and, therefore, proves, in short, that this measure is not an essential measure for the long-term power of foreign policy that whoever has the competence to carry it out, and, therefore, we bet on alternative measures. With regard to this question that you pose and that you will certainly have the opportunity, if you consider it, to ask the Interior Counsel, what I have to say is that this concrete case, referring to the application of the Law of Citizen Security, is an issue that the Interior Department knows, which obviously has rejected the attachments and will complete the corresponding dispatch, and what is certain is that the concrete facts will be weighed and will be resolved accordingly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.11.0	If it seems to them, let's take the first question again. [[Ask the Government about the forecasts for the VISC+ project]] [[310-00002/11]] Ask the government to answer orally (fons veus)... Yes, yes. The deputy has the word...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.12.0	All right, thank you, President. Mr. Comin, we're on our way. A few days ago we learned from the pressure that the VISC+ project, to take advantage of the health data of Catalans, continues to move forward, despite the strong opposition of civil society. We think it's a pretty important issue not to know - in the press and, quite simply, we want to ask him what his advice plans are with regard to this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.13.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.14.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. I am sure you will agree with me that what I would not have felt is putting at risk or crossing the search centres in our country; I think we all agree on this. And what you need today's search centers is a big data model, because, effectively, today's search is intimately associated with massive data management, real data, data from chronic histories. Therefore, what we will not do in any case is to make it difficult for our research centres to continue to investigate; what we will not do – and I think you do not ask me – is to make it difficult for our research centres to remain leaders at the international level. I do not give you examples, but you know that our city and our country have many centres that are leaders at international level. Therefore, we simply need to articulate some system of cessation of data, of real data, based on the real clinical histories of the patients of our health system; we need to do this. The conditions on which this system is built can obviously be discussed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.15.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.16.0	Well, I like it, I won't deny that I like to feel what we can discuss, but I also say that we don't really, we don't, we don't, because many times this call to the dialog has served because, while it's dialogue, the council is pulling for the right. Don't worry, more than that, because this project was done at PricewaterhouseCoopers, a company with which, by the way, we have a little problem of rotating doors that we'll talk about some other day. You said, or so, that there was no king here; I heard it at the press the other days, didn't you? , which was only a cessation of data to public hospitals... But that's not in peace either, because the person who was carrying VISC+ until now said: "The first phase is to public hospitals, the second phase is to private enterprises. We already have the first phase. The other day, in this room, some complained about their lack of experience in healthcare management. I have to say that we don't care about this – we don't care about it. The thing that concerns us, and very much, is the experience that they do have people that you have appointed to run the council. For example, we are very concerned that the number 2 of the CatSalut is Josep Maria Argimon, who was just the person in charge of directing VISC+ when Boi Ruiz was advisor. And I say, I say I'm worried because this gentleman said that VISC+, this project, "is used to provide value to health and pharmaceutical industries and benefits the economic and industrial fabric. Either we're talking about investigators or we're talking about economic and industrial fabric. Miri, I repeat again, I am glad to hear the word "dialeg," but I would like to know, and I imagine that to many other people, if you continue to contemplate the possibility of selling the health data of Catalans to private companies. That's all; thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.17.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.18.0	To the last question I have answered in a clear way: no– no. We have no such intention, and so it is in our political commitments, which are public. The 2015 generation, Aquas, which is the Quality Agency and Evaluation of the Catalan health system, the public body of the department, reoriented the VISC+ project to offer the following guarantees. One, which was managed solely and exclusively for the Aquas, just as a compliment to the late 2014 motion, where it was said that no bid could be made until the days had been celebrated. And, indeed, there has been no bid from any part of the project since late 2014. 2015 is the VISC+ project, with the guarantee that it is managed exclusively for the Aquas, with the guarantee that the recipients of the data are exclusively public search centers, financed with public funds, and the hospitals of the Siscat and the centers of the Siscat that also search, publics, only the publics, and the not-for-profit ones, and the data, anonymities. But not only that: for whom he wants to withdraw, there is a form that allows it. Who made this reorientation? Dr. Argimon. Dr. Argimon is responsible, a person of a recognizable prestige...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.19.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.20.0	...of this reorientation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.21.0	Ask the Government about vulnerable families. [[Ask the Government about vulnerable families]] [[310-00001/11]] The words of Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.22.0	Thank you, President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group wants to know what is the government's understanding of the families that are in a vulnerable situation, especially those that cannot cope with the payment of the waste of the light, water and gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.23.0	There's the word "Treball Advisor", "Social Afers" and "Families," Ms. Pain Bassa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.24.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, the honourable Member says that vulnerable families are part of the phenomenon of the poor, in the broadest sense. So let me just say that we're all vulnerable, and that should be taken into account. The families... the crisis has shown that everyone, at a given moment, can have this vulnerability. That's why we need to work hard, and this is our principle as a government and, therefore, from this advice. We are convinced that the shock plan will be and will help to alleviate the impacts of the crisis, but also that poor chronicle that has remained in our country, around us. The needs are obvious. We count on an investment in 15_million Bressol schools; on fooder scholarships, as you know, an open game that has already delivered in 2015 about seventy_1,000 fooder scholarships; an additional investment in minimum income, very important at these times, and help to social housing, which we have with 10_million. We need to be able to pass the presupposition, and here we are. They are policies that address all those vulnerable families that are in a poor situation at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.25.0	There's a word from Mr. Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.26.0	Thank you, Counselor. Miri, on August 31st, the government announced the March inn of the Fund of solidary care of basic sub-administrations, endowed with 5_million euros, and that it was aimed at people affected by the poor energy. One more time, the government was left in the headline and ultimately did not solve the real problem. There have only been fifty requests, which have benefited around 3,770 families; only EUR 1 out of EUR 5 million has been spent on them; nor do we know how much the sub-governing companies have contributed to this fund, and we consider, moreover, that there has not been any publicity given, nor has there been a simplified procedure for families, nor has the problem been solved. And in Catalonia today there are still families to whom the light, gas or water is installed for issues of payment. It is, therefore, a very poor management of this line of help. In Catalonia there are more than 600,000 families who suffer from poor energy. There have been, as a matter of fact, the joint ventures and entities of the third sector that have put human and economic resources in order to cope with this situation. Every year, Catalans and Catalans find themselves with the same problem: with a government that is unable to set up an efficient and stable system that ensures that people can turn on the light, put on the heating or warm up the water. I still remember the statements in this very hemicle of former advisor Felipe Puig when he told his family that Catalonia was being cut by the sub-ministries for lack of payment. It is for this reason, Counselor, that we ask for a review of the procedures of this line of help, that you make the fund available to the assemblies, and more so we ask you to extend this fund to the whole year. He who suffers the poor energizes the patient throughout the year, not only in winter times. We believe that it is necessary to do so as it develops, and it should be more urgent, the Law 24/2015, approved unanimously in this Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.27.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.28.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Congressman, you're right about a lot of things. First of all, tell him that the issue of energy poverty, as you know, is the door to the business consultancy. But obviously, and we have repeated it many times, this government is a single government, we work cooperatively. Therefore, I will answer this question of poor energy, because it is an issue that interests us all and that we will work together. It is true that the Solidary Service Fund for basic sub-administrations for 2015 had deficiencies. We're going to reach 3,770 families. I will not answer the concerns of the last legislature, of which I had said or had not said Mr. Counsellor Felipe Puig. So, we're in a new legislature, and what we've granted is that... we're convinced that the affected people are going to institutions, and what we want to do is go there, improve communication, expand the endowment of the fund. And, obviously, what I can assure you is that in this legislature the person will be cut off from the light and water; let this council, let it be another councillor. It's a government debt and it's a government decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.29.0	He asked the Government about the criteria for being involved in criminal proceedings. [[Ask the Government about the criteria for being involved in criminal proceedings]] [[310-00005/11]] The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.30.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Counsellor, a couple of weeks ago we learned with surprise that among the pacts to facilitate the formation of this Government was the withdrawal of criminal proceedings in various judicial cases in which the public interests were affected. I wanted to ask you whether this withdrawal of legal action has really been due to political pacts, whether the criteria have been strictly political, from the negotiation, and whether they have already withdrawn from the seven cases that they seem to have planned to withdraw, which affect some 40 people, including some of the CUP party, which gives them their support.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.31.0	Reply to the Councillor of Interior, Mr. Jordi Jané.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.32.0	Thank you, Madam President; thank you, Mr. Deputy. For the Government of Catalonia, for the Department of Interior, the priority is to defend the security of people. I have no doubt that this is the case for all parliamentary groups. And, therefore, what is the defence of security is neither a currency of change nor a political currency of agreement with anyone. And I am also convinced that any parliamentary group of this chamber wants to negotiate with this necessary defence of security. You ask me for certain judicial proceedings, whether the Generality withdraws or not. I reiterate to you the same criteria that the President of the Generality expressed in the last Ple of this Parliament of Catalonia. And the criteria are very clear: when there is a public server, a function, a move, when there are public benefits affected, the Generality will withdraw nothing. This is the criteria that the President of Catalonia set out and this is the criteria that we follow.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.33.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.34.0	Mr Councillor, despite what you say, in point 33 of the CUP's intentions and then on another point..., just before the Sabadell meeting in which we voted whether or not to support Mr Artur Mas was one of the issues under discussion. And we have found that in the end you made the gesture of saying that you were withdrawing from these procedures. Look, this Parliament unanimously adopted a motion for a resolution stating that the Generalitat would be involved in cases of corruption as long as the public coffers were affected. When the public interest is affected, the withdrawal of the actions of the Generalitat should not be the subject of political negotiation. And I would ask you, Mr. Counsellor..., and I would ask you to tell us that in those procedures where, according to the media, there are 40 people affected by violent crimes that affect the public interest..., I tell you if you are going to withdraw, whether you have already taken the relevant orders or not, and I urge you to tell us that the government will never handle the characterization in criminal proceedings as a currency of exchange. It is not possible that in offices, as has been done with regard to pardons in this country for compositions between political parties, they will stop prosecuting street crimes for the benefit of political partners. I ask you not to continue these political negotiations to separate yourself from criminal matters...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.35.0	Time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.36.0	...in the interest of political partners.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.37.0	...speaker. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.38.0	Mr. Carrizosa, I would like to reiterate to you a criterion that is very important: we defend, we always defend, we have done it in the past and we will do it in the future..., when a squad move has suffered any kind of damage or injury we do not withdraw from anything. We haven't done it or we will. That's why I made it very clear to you. Other assumptions. I also want to make it very clear: here we do not discuss the security of people or the security of public order. I'd never argue with her. More. What we're discussing is criminal procedural issues, which are very different. Let's say the same as the General Administration of the State, the Government of the State. The same, which is: when the Ministry of Public Prosecutions is a person, when the Ministry of Public Prosecutions is accused, it does not have to be incorporated into this accusation by making double accusations; in this case the Government of Catalonia. They don't do it, and we don't have to do it. And I don't know if I have time, but, like, then there's a question...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.39.0	No, not in tea.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.40.0	...which goes the same way, I will also reiterate some very clear case law in this sense.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.41.0	He asks the government about the actions in relation to the company Covestro and the chemical industry in Tarragona. [[Ask the government about the actions related to the company Covestro and the chemical industry of Tarragona]] [[310-00006/11]] The question is posed by Mr Matías Alonso, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Excuse me! - I'm sorry! – from Ciutadans. Excuse me. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.42.0	Thank you, President. As Mr.Iceta says, "not yet. Counselor, last November in Tarragona all the alarms went off. There was a first indication that a leading chemical industry had intended, perhaps, to displace itself. And on the 4th of September the news was produced, the decision of this company, of Covestro, of a company that is a subsidiary and is widely involved for the German multinational Bayer, to displace its production of MDI, of methyl diphenyl isopropa, something like this, which is a first-hand matter.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... My question, Counselor, is: what measures has your government taken or intends to take in relation to Covestro and in relation to the chemical industry in Tarragona?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.43.0	The word has the Business and Knowledge Advisor, Mr. Jordi Baiget.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.44.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, the government does not intend to take action. The government is going to work, continue working as it has since 2013, when it announced on the part of the European Commission that there would be a migration of technology to produce chlorine from old technology to new technology and we can predict that there could be business decisions in the line that it is a fan. And the way it works is, as always, with a dialogue with businesses, with a dialogue with the representatives of the workers and the workers, with a joint and loyal job with all the public administrations involved, especially the assemblies, and looking for initiatives that can keep the occupation that is in the measure of possible, and if it can be looking for new industrial facilities that allow not only to keep the occupation, but also a million of this occupation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.45.0	The word has the Lord Matías Alonso, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.46.0	Well, you've opened up a line of the problem, which is the impact that it will have on Ercros, on the producer of chlorine, precisely, the displacement of this company, from Covestro. And, look, the tarragons are worried. The workers of Tarragona chemistry, especially those of Covestro, are concerned. And we're talking about a sector that's coming forward. It is a phone industry, an industry that is responsible for more than 12_percent of Spanish GDP. 3_percent of Spanish GDP has a direct impact or is directly generated for Tarragona chemistry. That's what this is all about. And there's a serious concern, because there are qualified workers. They talk about three hundred workers between Covestro and Ercros. Ercros will shut down Flix's plant; it cost a lot to reach an agreement because Ercros is still working on Flix. It will reduce its production to the southern polygon of Tarragona by 70_per_cent, also its production of chlorine, at the end of 2017 with the motivation of the displacement of Covestro. And we're worried, we're very worried about the Tarragons and the workers. Because there are highly qualified workers, workers who generate a high added value who have their place of employment with an expiration date. And we have to say that it does not only affect the 300 workers involved in Covestro and Ercros, but we can calculate that there are 600 more who are also affected by this displacement. So, we're talking 900 places of work...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.47.0	Time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.48.0	...highly qualified.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.49.0	...sir deputy. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.50.0	Mr. MP, as you can understand and hear, the government does not passively look at business decisions that can lead to qualified people and workers being at a standstill. The Government actively participates and works in the search for solutions. It does. And we do this with Flix's Assembly, for example, looking for new industrial locations on his plant; also working in the entire Tarragona industrial estate so that if there is any company that stops producing a certain product there can be other alternative companies that can continue producing and can look for alternative solutions. I, poised to seek alternative solutions, the main problem that the chemical industry has, also from Tarragona, is the energy cost. And here they ask you that your group is on the side of the Government of the Generality and give us support in all those measures and in all those actions that we do in order to reduce and prolong the whole problem of the electricity sector that has, and energetically, of this country: cheaper energy, new possibilities with closed transport networks that can allow there to be a reduction in costs and that can enable the chemical sector of Tarragona to continue its competitiveness. Because the energy cost of the chemical sector is practically 40_percent of all the operating costs that the sector has, much more important than not the cost of labor and cost...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.51.0	Time's up, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.52.0	...of staff and materials... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.53.0	He asked the Government about the implementation of measures to address emergency situations in the area of housing. [[Asks the Government about the implementation of measures to address emergency situations in the area of housing]] [[310-00007/11]] The question is posed by Mr. Marc Solsona, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.54.0	Thank you, Madam President. It will advise, well, during the last parliamentary term, this Parliament has adopted a whole series of legislative measures that are aimed at reducing the fact that the severe housing crisis as a result of the severe economic crisis that has suffered and that continues to paint a significant part of our country. Laws such as 14/2015, on the creation of the tax on empty dwellings; or Law 19/2015, which introduces temporary and shared property to the Catalan Civil Code; or Decree 1/2015, on urgent measures to mobilise housing from mortgage enforcement processes and provides for the exercise of the right to money and also, on the part of housing, retraction, and joint actions; or Law 24/2015, on extraordinary measures, which arose from the ILP which was approved here unanimously on 29 July. In short, they are measures, all of them, which have been supported by a wide range of different political forces that are represented here in Parliament and that are necessary in case you are alone a good instrument, or a useful and important instrument to defend a basic right such as access to housing. In recent weeks, we have also listened to the demand, for example, for entities such as the Third Social Sector of Catalonia that claim 770 social habitats before two years of age to meet the needs of families in social exclusion. And also other studies like the Arrels Foundation, that say there could be 1,500 people in Catalonia living on the street. In parallel, and as we have also known for communication means, last week we were aware that bank entities could have a stock of 45,000 empty habitats. That is why the Joint Parliamentary Group asks: what is the Government of the Generality's commitment to the implementation of measures to address emergencies in the field of housing and, in particular, the application of Law 24/2015, which refers to the approved ILP? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.55.0	Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.56.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, ask us what the government's compromise is. So in this respect it is very clear, the objective is clear, as I said: that no family sees their right to a decent habitat. And that's why we need, logically, Law 24/2015, approved just six months ago in this Parliament. And for its deployment, logically, we are coordinating with what is the promoter group of the ILP, with a very clear will: to mobilize the unoccupied habitats to give response to the most needy collectivities. In this sense, the commitment to mobilize unoccupied habitats, as I said, is total, and I will advance four of the recent things that we are doing. In the first place, the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia has initiated sanctioning actions with a clear will, with the will that the different banking entities, and also organizations, make available the officially unoccupied protection habitats. In this sense, therefore, there are directives on the ancient Catalonia Caixa, at the demarcation of Tarragona, for four buildings of dwellings of official protection unoccupied, and has already imposed sanction on the promoter, at the time, of the Terrassa Box for the unemployment, in this case, of dwellings to the city of Lleida ; or it has opened issuing sanctioning to the Impsol. In the second term, we want to fully resolve the obligation to provide a reallocation to the people, to the families who require it at the risk of denunciation, and in this sense, we start dispatches of compulsory temporary cessation to Salt, Badalona and Tarragona, thus completing article 7 of the law that you mentioned. In the third place, the Agency has already approved the new regulation, for the Board of Emergencies, in order to expand, therefore, the collection of people who can gather there, and therefore, in this sense, more people will be able to gather in the months of emergencies. And that's what we're gonna do, too, in the joints. And fourth, and later on, it's that we're going to see that the funded entities, so they're working with the protocol that we've already done together with the people who started the ILP, so the banks are applying the social logger. If it's not like that, this government won't have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.57.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.58.0	...doubtful to enforce the regulations... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.59.0	Ask the government about subway line 9. [[Ask the government about subway line 9]] [[310-00008/11]] The question is posed by Mr. Marc Sanglas, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.60.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, allow 'em to congratulate you and from our position day..., at other times, let's say, on different benches, sure we will do good work as the knower that you are of this environment. In any case, the question from our parliamentary group is addressed to you in line 9. Line 9, on its southern tram, which will be in operation from the coming week and which, therefore, we understand to be an ambition project, a project that is not without difficulties from the technical point of view, because there has been a project that has undergone various modifications and that, therefore, we say, from this point of view has, in time, applied some modifications, above all to gain in aspects as important as that of security. But it is also obvious that in a crisis context it has not helped people to pull this work forward. We also want to take advantage of this monitoring session to denounce the management of the Government of the State in the lack of reversal that makes Catalonia. I can only see the Government of the Generality's reversal in public transport, such as the subway to the L9 or the recent openings of the Railways of the Generality to Terrassa and which must continue in its step for Sabadell, in order to compare it with other investments that the Government of the State has not made to Catalonia. Therefore, we denounce, once again, the lack of this reversal and that, in any case, with these resources we could do much more public transport policy. We're glad we're still on this line. In the previous mandate we approved the Public Transport Finance Act, with which the Government is committed to public transport. We understand that this new line is a very powerful tool to get what's around the metropolis beyond the city of Barcelona and, therefore, let's say, it makes a cohesive tool for the territory and the citizens. We understand, too, that it is a tool for serving the city, but especially for serving the citizens. In short, who does not have to enjoy, who does not have to arrange it are the citizens who live in Barcelona and around its metropolis, and who also has to allow this connection to the airport; also, that visitors can also use it. In any case, and given that this cannot be stopped, we want to ask what is the government's capture, what is the capture of its department, to continue the works linked to the L9, as, for example, line 10 at its step through the Navy and the Free Zone. We understand that it's a very important bar, too, because these works are not up to date and that we can see the end of these works quite soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.61.0	Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.62.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - On the 12th, actually, this new branch of line 9 of the metro will come into operation. It's an extraordinary reversal. They think it will be the first time, not in Europe, but all over the world, that they will enter functionally twenty kilometers of automatic line. We're talking about a line without drivers, that's the highest levels of sophistication in the people's service. And it allows us, this performance, to do various things. It allows us to connect, for a band, the city of Prat, is an authentic underground for Prat ; it also allows us to change the internal mobility to the Hospitallet, and it allows us to access knowledge centers: connects the University of Barcelona, the Polytechnic University, zones of economic development– Mercabarna – and, finally, we will keep the railway connection with the airport of Barcelona, with the two terminals of the airport of Barcelona. It must have been the Catalonian Government that got this rail connection to the airport. This is a first item we want to put in value. Second element, and you were talking about it. The effort made by the Government of Catalonia in this sense, and they think that, in these last thirteen years, the Government of Catalonia has invested around 300_million each year to be able to expand this railway network, while the State has not. The State, in the last eight years, has only invested 400_millions, which means 50_millions a year in rolling stock. Therefore, there is a very substantial difference in the effort made by one administration and the other. And then there's the question. I want to announce that on the 15th the workers continued to line 9, line 10 of the metro, in order to be able to connect the barrels of the Navy and to be able to connect the Free Zone. We will do this effort, and we will do it together with the Barcelona Assembly, we will determine what the rhythms are, and we are convinced that we can come to a good agreement so that these rhythms increase and the year 2017 can enter into operation the maximum number of stations in these barrels, the barrels of the Navy in the Free Zone. This is our commitment, to be on the side of people, to be on the side of sustainable mobility. Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.63.0	Ask the Government about the application of the social welfare plan. [[Ask the Government about the application of the social welfare plan]] [[310-00009/11]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Figueras, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.64.0	Thank you very much, President. Consellera Bassa, from Juntes per el Si one of the main objectives, one of our priorities that we have marked for this legislature also, is the follow-up and impulse of social policies that improve the living conditions of all those people who live in a situation of vulnerability. In this sense, in the last few months and a lot of things that people interestedly attribute to us, as it is an inaction, from together for the Yes we have been working, we have been laying down, we have been designing a plan of work that allows, precisely, the attention to people in poor situations. A plan of action that contains measures on energy poverty, on housing emergence, on childhood, on minimum income for insertion, on dependency and so many other areas that affect, precisely, therefore, the lives of people. A plan of shock that contained, precisely, presumptive impact measures to deal with this situation of vulnerability and poor, therefore, which, as I said, affects a part of the population of our country. Knowers that the government shares, because, more than that, you have made reference to it and because most members of this government have been designing and planting this plan of action... – before us in reference – we would like to know what is the increase in social investment that this plan of action can report for which, above all, it makes minimal insertion and dependence, and also if we can exhaust what is its translation into concrete initial actions that this plan of action proposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.65.0	Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.66.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman, as you said very well, the shoal of this one does not only depend on this advice. The shoc plan is a plan of the whole government, it is a plan in which different councils participate, and in a cooperative way, as it is in society today. Therefore, it is a compromise of the whole government. As far as social issues are concerned, obviously we can't separate them for advice either, because, as you know, if a person needs minimal income, as you said, it's also possible to have energy poverty problems, it's also possible to have housing problems and, therefore, it's another way we have to work together. With regard to the minimum income issue that I mentioned, we can tell you before we closed the year with 30,000 consignors, practically; 29,530, but this gives coverage to 75,000 people. Totally inadequate. That is why we have made this plan of action that would allow us to have a social land for all those people who have problems, for all those people who need the least to survive. The first measure, which would be immediate, is to make it right subject. I mean, we don't have a person who needs this social land without that kind of money. A topic that would not only be economic, because we plant that all that person who needs the social land needs an economic land and a companionship. That's why we're talking about some measures that we could accompany this benefit that we'd give for the social land, and we'd do that right away. At these times we have 185_millions for the minimum income issue and with the xoc plan we could achieve 70_millions more, so 255_millions would allow us both: to have the economic share and to make the follow-up that are necessary because all those people who are in severe poverty or social exclusion are not in these conditions. Depending on we have a clear problem, and I think we're all very conscious: a law that has come up with a mess and that we don't have enough money, so the 50_millions of the shoal would allow us to move forward a lot and a lot with the law of dependence, especially considering that, from this end of the year, they have entered grade 1 and, therefore, it's a higher degree. It is a law that has no financial support from the State and that, therefore, we must make every contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.67.0	He asked the Government about the waiver of prosecution in certain judicial proceedings. [[Asks the Government about the waiver of prosecution in certain court proceedings]] [[310-00004/11]] The question is posed by Mrs Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.68.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Counselor, I would like you to explain, not to my parliamentary group, but to the citizenry, Mr Jané, which are the criteria that have changed so as to withdraw from the accusations of public disorder in Catalonia from the seat of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.69.0	Reply by Mr. Jordi Jané, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.70.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, I have explained to you the Government's criteria, and I will say to you more: the criteria are strictly in line with the recent jurisprudence of both the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court. I'll give you an example. On July 27th of last year, just six months ago, I had occasion to follow a Supreme Court ruling, a ruling that puts in question more than the use that the public administrations have to make of which the popular accusation is called, which is based on Article 125 of the Constitution, the one that is intended for the citizen. And, indeed, the Supreme Court reminds us one more time: when a specific law does not allow us to do so – and the Criminal Court does not allow us to do so – when this law is not there, we do not have to compare when the Ministry of the Prosecutor does it. It's not that anyone's coming, it's not that I don't accuse anyone, it's that there's already the public ministry, the Ministry of Public Prosecution, as well as the other. And you tell us, even so, in an express way, huh? , this sentence of July 27, tells us that there are reasons for criminal policy that advise this restriction – do not appear – say, with the objective – the Supreme Court says, do not tell the counselor – to be clearer, more expeditious in the criminal proceedings, say, and avoid unnecessary double charges. This, honourable Member, is the criteria to be followed by the Government of Catalonia, the same criteria that governs our case law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.71.0	There's the word Mrs. Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.72.0	Thank you, Madam President. Miri, Mr. Jané, there is no difference, nor is there any legal alibi that you express and enable the Generality to stop putting these procedures, among other things, because you know precisely that security is not a term that allows you to guarantee and guarantee only the material goods, but also the intangibles. And I'll explain to him what this means: in security, in security, in living together, in being able to serve our streets and do the exercise of rights, those that are manifest and those that do not want to do it, with peace, with security, without risks. You know what? I am not telling you, I am also telling the Supreme Court, that precisely security and public disorder require, precisely, this: to ensure peaceful coexistence, the peaceful use of our streets. Look, there's no procedural alibi, which is a government agreement with the CUP. And it's the UPC that makes you go on with these court proceedings. You don't make a case that doesn't have the abst. And, besides, I'm telling you one thing, and that's not the People's Party, but the ex-Interior advisor, Mr. Ramon Swordler: you've let the Catalonian team move down.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.73.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.74.0	Madam Member, in the first place, all the criteria that you have stated the shares, all of them, all of them that I have just expressed – public reasons, security – all of them, shares, make my own; if they want to put them in the session paper on behalf of this councillor, they do so. Second, I don't admit it: we defend and we defend and we defend the Mosos de'Esquadra always; we have not withdrawn or withdrawn in the process in which a movement of the squad has suffered the least injury. I say this here in his parliamentary office, the President of Catalonia said: we will not withdraw from these proceedings. So, if you want to rub it, you do whatever you want, but we follow the case law. Certainly, we follow the same as the State Government, which is now you, in these kinds of procedures.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.75.0	Counselor, time is running out. I'm having a hard time. [[Pause.]] [[Ask the President of the Generality about the 2015 Maresme Declaration and the conversion of the C-32 motorway into a fast and free route]] [[317-00004/11]] Questions to the President of the Generality. He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political and social situation. The question is posed by Mrs Gabriela Serra, of the Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.76.0	Thank you, President. On May 2015, the Generality with all parliamentary groups gave support to the Maresme Declaration, which called for the liberalisation of the Maresme Highway toll and its rapid conversion..., which insisted on widening the C-32, putting the rescue at risk in 2016. Moreover, the councillor, then Santi Vila, is meeting with the Platform Aturem the C-32– that today accompanies us – and is ugly because of his opposition to the widening of the highway to Blanes-Lloret. Despite this – despite this –, shortly before leaving its charge, at the end of the past year, the then still advisor in functions Santi Vila stated that the extension of the C-32 motorway to the region of the jungle would be carried out immediately. The extension of this infrastructure has generated a large social replenishment on the part of the towns to which this road has to pass. The vein, the citizenry, has complained and is complaining for three main reasons: first, because it has not been consulted on the adequacy of the infrastructure and has not been sufficiently informed; second, because it has not been difficult to deal with more difficult, more sustainable and more relevant alternatives, such as the development of the GI-682 Lloret-Blanes road, and third, because of the impacts that the prolongation of the C-32 will have on the medium-environmental level – only to say that it will be hot to cut 66,000 trees. For all this, Mr President, we want to ask you: do you not think that at a time when the country is taking what we call a process, at a time when we want to recover and take it away to recover our sovereignties, at a time when we are talking about citizen participation, we are talking about processes where we listen to the assembly of our people to define which country we want, as we want, it is not time, first, to know whether you want to ratify the words of the Councillor, who ignores the agreements of the Maresme Declaration and also ignores the popular will of the area? And, second, if you plan to articulate some mechanism because the area is called for a consultation to really, formally and officially know what people think about the need for this infrastructure, respecting, yes, the moratorium... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.77.0	I don't know, Congresswoman, he's running out of time. [[Pause.]] The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.78.0	Good morning, Madam President. You can already imagine that on these first days of the government the themes that are most burning in the territory, in the different territories, worry all the departments and obviously worry the president. I have had time to listen to some claims, specifically those concerning the 340th national, about all the issue you have to deal with with the laying of the Hebrew... I have not had occasion, of course, to speak with the problem that you have described, but I do want to make some reflections on it. We have to distinguish two plans, in what you propose: one is the plan that directly affects the project and how the previous government and this government assumes the responsibility of managing the complexity of this project, and the other, in which we agree, is which way this government, and the country in general, is willing to contemplate which policy of public infrastructure and mobility, and how it manages it, has to hold for the future, and they are different things. But, also, in the management of the conflict or the situation you describe there are elements that connect us with this willingness to do things in a dialogue and participation way. It's nothing new – and Councilman Rull when he does, too – that we've been and are in permanent contact with the territory. The territory is very complex; the territory forms it, certainly, plataforms and people who express themselves legitimately, but it also forms many other citizens, the formation of the joints, the form of the economic fabric, the form of a reality, concretely of the area you describe, which has a contribution to the touristic GDP and the GDP you serve, in the conjunction of the economy of the Lower Maresme, of the gironine comarques, very important. And, therefore, the dialog is essential to reach solutions. Because there are many petitions, all of them legitimate, but finally get that a territory that represents what I have said to you in relation to the fish and the economy, and therefore to places of work, and therefore to the social contribution also to the territory in what it needs to be able to guarantee this progress..., unilaterally, it is difficult to solve it, and therefore we have decided to do, as Councillor Vila did and as Councillor Rull will do, to listen, to dialogue and to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.79.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality about the loss of civic values and the educational and health models that the government agreement with the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Cry]] [[317-00005/11]] The question is posed by Mr Xavier García Albiol, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.80.0	Mr President, on the day you want to take possession, you want to make it very clear that your government's main objective was to start the breakup process between Catalonia and the rest of Spain; a situation that, without any doubt, creates uncertainty, as well as creating uncertainty for your travel partners, your governing partners, the CUP, and, above all, with some issues that they have made very clear: the CUP is very clear in its fight against the concerted school; it is very clear in its bet against the sustainable health model that we have at these times; it has made it very clear that it is against lowering taxes and I also believe that it has put itself in evidence that it wants to give total impunity to the violent attackers of our path. The question, Mr President, is as far as you and your Government are prepared to sacrifice all these values, all this work, in favour of the pact with the CUP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.81.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.82.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. My honourable Member, it seems to me that the agreements, the terms of the agreements of the Pact with the CUP that you have appointed are not only clear, but they are public. And in any of these agreements it can be deduced, in any case, that we must suffer the least for what is the compromise of the group that supports the Government, and of the Government, in which I want to remind you that there is no CUP, to maintain its full road and to maintain the electoral commitments it has made to the citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.83.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.84.0	Mr President, you have not given an answer to my question, to my question. You said that at the moment, in the agreements of the CUP, that they are not their partners... – obviously they are. But you remain unconcrete and unconfirmed, for the safety of all Catalans, for the safety, for example, of all the parents and mothers who bring their children to the concerted school, that you will not accept the proposals of the CUP to fight and attempt to make agreements with the concerted school. Nor has he made it clear to us whether he will continue to defend the model of sustainable sanitation that we have had in Catalonia in the past few years; a model that, beyond the difficulties of the economic crisis, has allowed it to be a woman of health, that everyone can have free sanitation in this country, and make it out of the hands of the private sector, too. As, also, Mr Puigdemont, Mr President, we follow without listening to your words, your arguments, the firm compromise and the clear compromise that the Government of Catalonia will not push the taxes to the Catalans. We didn't listen to him in his intervention. And I hope that in this reply you give me the answer and the gift satisfied all these questions, that they are not just a concern for the Popular Party group, but they are a concern for the vast majority of Catalans and Catalans living in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.85.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.86.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, you see, the apocalyptic scenario that you describe in educational themes, in sanitary themes, in tax themes is not in line with reality. You're asking... I don't know if you were asking this government, or this president, or asking the CUP, why do you make more reference to the principle that the CUP has, quite legitimately, its electoral program, but it's not ours. Therefore, our electoral program is what you will be listening to by the mouth of each of the advisers you have asked to compare, who will give you an exhaustive account of each of the policies that worry the most. But I can already tell you that the concern about the model of education in Catalonia just doesn't see from this government, from the Spanish government, and from something that is said LOMCE, and from the model of education and the linguistic model. And this government, precisely, is on the side of the whole educational community, which is very different, in the application of the Catalonia Education Law, which is where this Parliament is. In relation to the compromise for a sustainable health model, he will not find a government more enthusiastic than this one in the sustainability of the health model in Catalonia, which is an example not only for the attention it pays to its citizens, but for the example it gives to the world. And you know that. And this is a model that, despite the enormous difficulties it has encountered and for which it has passed, has managed to maintain an offer and a level of excellence for its users who are frankly enviable, admirable and worthy of recognition whenever we have occasion, and I today, that is the first time I address this chamber, I want to do it with all roundness. And for what you do to the fiscal pressure, listen, you already know that here, in Catalonia, we have a high fiscal pressure and, therefore, that Catalonia's tickets do not come so much for this way, but for the compliment of the obligations of the Spanish Government in that which still has to pay to this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.87.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the focus of policies on social justice and access to guaranteed citizenship income]] [[317-00003/11]] The question is posed by Mr. Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.88.0	Thank you, President. Very honourable, our question has to do with the philosophy with which your Government counts on taking on some of the most important policies for which it faces the situation of social emergence. And let us think concretely about the project of guaranteed income of citizens. We do not want to anticipate here, at this moment, in the mark that we are, a debate that we will have in the next few weeks, but we would certainly want to ask it, if not, with which country, with which focus your Government will address this debate. In other words, if we debate an income conceived as a universal right, as a subjective right, as an open game not subservient to the presuppositional dispositions, to the presuppositional availabilitys. This, we think, is the philosophy with which civil society has transferred this proposal to the Parliament of Catalonia, and we want to know if its government is part of this ILP spirit that was proposed to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.89.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.90.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Rabell, well, let's let parliamentary processing take its course. Let the proponents, that the different departments and that the different groups can express exactly what their vision is of how we should embark on a topic that we are not only not taking refuge, but that we take it up with the same criteria that Mrs Bassa defended when she referred to it: this is a topic that forms part of this idea of "social land that we must equip our society with. Now, he also does not escape that, even at the margin of the discussion that there may be-there in the case of the processing, there is a discussion to the entremig which is said to be presuppositions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.91.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.92.0	Well, let's take a note of that answer, which I think is announcing an interesting debate, and that maybe, after all, we'll have what's called a mud fight, right? , around this ILP. Let's take advantage, if not, of the fortune to ask him that I missed a doubt: a few days ago, last week, there was a sequence of information about the conditions of access to the minimum income of insertion – some information, which was denied to the councillor. So, it was said that if communicative skills were to be heated... it wasn't very clear. We think that for a performance of these characteristics the criteria must be objective and social. We think that Catalan is a right that public administrations must promote, but never a condition of access to a social service, it was not that there were more requirements to access a minimum income of insertion than in the Parliament of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.93.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.94.0	Yes, thank you very much. You see, whoever has the right to the minimum income will have the right to it objectively, regardless of what you see, what you think, what language you speak. And that's what we all agree on. And the government will ensure that this applies in these conditions, without any doubt. That said, all of us are equally interested in all the mechanisms that have, let us say, the welfare system in its abyss, the social protection system, fully protecting everyone. So it interests us, at the same time, not to let anyone be discovered, and it interests us, at the same time, to give those tools that guarantee fairness to all members of the community, starting with the hand and their right to be educated and ending up with people who have difficulty in entering the labour market, giving them those tools that can more conjure up the risk of difficult employment. And that's not just a condition, it's, quite simply, that all the tools we have in our midst we have to put them to work with the common goal. And no one escapes that to gain access to equity we must guarantee and we must be able to provide all members of our community with access to all that is public service and to all that is, let's say, basic rights. Here you will not find us creating borders, differences, those people who, objectively, have the right to perceive this minimum income. Our interest is to expand the spectrum of people who rebbe. And, here, it is not regardless whether or not it has a million-euro follow-up that some assumptions can predict, and that with a presuppositionary extension it would not be possible to have.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.95.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the government's commitment to maintain and extend the industrial fabric to the Tarragona regions and about the application of the urban plan of this area]] [[317-00002/11]] The question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.96.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Most honourable President of the Generality, we all agree that our country's main problem is the economic crisis, the weather and its social consequences, and that, therefore, the main priority on the part of the Government must be the impulse of economic growth and the creation of a decent and quality occupation. In our country, the main demarcation in which a higher level of stature is suffered is Tarragona. And, as has already been raised for Mr Matías Alonso and in response to the Councillor for Enterprise and Knowledge, we would like to raise with you, in fact, the concern for the announcement of the company Covestro, the former Bayer, which threatens its continuity in the area. It's a thousand places of work, also with induced effects on other deputy ministers like Ercros, who supplies it with chlorine. And, in short, we would like to know what is the government's compromise and its president, all the more so already the explanations given by the Councillor of Enterprise and Knowledge, in order to maintain and expand the industrial vocation of our country, and, very concretely, of the regions of Tarragona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.97.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.98.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, indeed, with the Councillor's answer, you have already deduced that this is a subject that we agaphem with a great deal of interest and with the just concern that deserves the case in particular..., and the effect that it has on a fabric and a territory, which is not only directly important for the territory, but for the whole of Catalonia, and among the European Union has a very significant weight, as Mr. Matías Alonso expressed, very correctly. So, from this point of view, what do we do? We didn't just get to work straight away, but we got a really good job done in a very formal way last six months, but I would say that informally in the last two years.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.99.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.100.0	Many thanks, President, we thank you for your explanations and the advice of the Councillor, which have been a broader, logically, and can count on us for what I am doing in this effort. But I would like to take advantage of the advent to remember that we have already done so at other times. The previous government also asked us to help promote economic activity in Tarragonian communities, and we signed an agreement on the Village and Salou Recreation and Tourism Centre. An agreement that, among other things, would facilitate the construction of 2,500 dwellings, 15,000 hotel spaces and provide for the creation of up to 7,000 places of work. An agreement that had been claimed for the territory, for broad sectors of the territory: trade unions, employers, joint ventures in the area... And at this point, I want to ask him in his parliamentary office – I also did it in private – : Who is the prospect of this agreement? Can we give it to you for finality? Or has he only been subdued to a temporary standstill? In any case, the Urban Master Plan has been paralyzed, and we would like to know whether we can give this project for abandonment and, therefore, this agreement for completion or if we are talking about a temporary standstill; and how that would be put to rest; and what would depend on the government's final decision on such an important project for the future of the Tarragona districts.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.101.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.102.0	Yes, thank you very much. Just for the first part of the question, supplement it with information. As soon as we knew the latest news, Councillor Baiget moved to the territory, I spoke to the mayor of Flix, with the mayor of Vila-seca, and I am in the midst of the efforts that are being made to achieve the full potential of Flix to join some industrial equipment, as well as the characteristics of water access, of electricity without problems, of a privileged railway access, of an environment that is already prepared and has industrial culture. Therefore, from this point of view, without being able to say anything that does not touch, we are working, and I think we are working in the right direction, conscious, as well as mature, that we have a date of expiration and that it is a date that we all have been clear from a season ago. According to the question, on the subject of the Complex Recreatuu Turístico and the Pla director urbanístico, you know who are the conditions with which we have faced, what we have started this legislature with regard to this issue. This isn't a dead project, not much less. He's alive—he's alive—and we've had more meetings in the government too deep and we'll have them, and the week we'll have one in that sense. And we listen to the view of the territory and it's a matter that we can't solve or unravel simply by calling the Urbanism Commission and provisionally approving the Urbanist Pla Director, but we have the compromise to make a joint commission to analyze the project exactly, at which stage it is found and which exit we give it. We understand that it is – I understand it very personally, that, and when I was in the Hebrew Lands the other day, that indirectly, obviously, in their benefit, I made a clear defense, of which I seem to be this project, but – a project that we take for its final maturity, so that investors can have a clear, precise, timely response.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.103.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the possibility of the government negotiating a new financing system that shields the basic services of the citizens]] [[317-00001/11]] The question is posed by Mrs Inés Arrimadas, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.104.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, one of the responsibilities of autonomous governments is, of course, to manage the competences, the resources they have taken on in the best possible way. But another, certainly, in our view, is to push for debate, to try to negotiate agreements that are beneficial to all citizens with the Government of Spain and the rest of the autonomous communities. We believe that one of the reforms and improvements that Spain clearly needs is an improvement in the system of financing basic services, services such as health and education, which are fundamental for citizens and which are assumed by the autonomous communities. The question is very clear, Mr President: are you, as the Government of the Generalitat, going to try to negotiate a new funding system that shields citizens' basic services? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.105.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.106.0	The Government of Catalonia will not promote or lead the best of the financing that you suggest, even so, if you do, very likely on the other side we won't find anyone there yet. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.107.0	I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.108.0	Mr President, it seems to us a real mistake for the Government of the Generalitat to abandon one of its obligations, which is to try to improve the lives of Catalans. You have indeed gone to try to improve the lives of Catalans – or so they say – saying that you are going to try to negotiate independence. It seems to me that it is very unbelievable to say to the Catalan citizens that it is difficult to improve the financing system but that we are going to go with all of them to negotiate independence and that, moreover, we will achieve it. It seems to us that it is to confuse, sincerely, reality with desire, not with the desire of the Catalans, but with their desire, because they also know that they do not have a social majority on their backs that pushes them. We believe that Spain is changing, that we are in a moment of change, and Catalans cannot be on the sidelines of what is moving in the rest of Spain, we have to be as we have always been: promoters also of improvements that benefit all citizens, including also Catalans. We are committed to a new system of funding for all the autonomous communities that shields basic health and education services. A model that is therefore perfectly compatible with the tax harmonisation of the European Union, which will certainly arrive. And a model that guarantees transparency, equity, fiscal co-responsibility and financial sufficiency. It seems to us that if you give up doing this you are giving up one of your obligations. Another thing is that your respective parties in the Congress of Deputies act as if that were not with you, turn your back entirely on what is happening in the Congress of Deputies, that is legitimate, but what is not legitimate is that a government of the Generalitat renounces its obligations and renounces its attempt to lead a new model of financing of basic services, because that does affect all Catalans. If you don't do it, we'll try to do it ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.109.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.110.0	Yes, thank you very much. Madame Arrimadas, we will be very attentive to your movements and above all to the success of your movements. And we will be very pleased if one day, which will not be soon, there is a Spanish government that invites us to explain to us what idea you have of the financing model of this while we are going to manage until we become an independent state. He says Spain is changing. We are already seeing it– we are seeing it–, it is changing a lot; for now it doesn't know how to make government, because it doesn't know how to manage complexity. [[remorse of the voice]] , does not know how to manage political complexity. I could take note of how we did things in Catalonia, because we finally have a government that has already put the first law into Parliament and has taken its first decisions... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.111.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.112.0	...and the advisors from whom they have asked to compare to explain all and every one of their policies. They could start by taking an example of what we've done here, but I'm afraid that... they'll just have to wait a while, because, actually, Spain is changing and not necessarily right. You must be very surprised that a government which is the result of a political agreement and which is presented to the citizen with an electoral programme that goes to defend where it touches – starting for Parliament and ending up where they invite us to talk, which they have not yet done – to what they have undertaken to do with the citizens. You go back to our election program, you go back to our government program, and you say'm if there's any way we're committed to proposing a new model of self-financing. No, no, So, do we have to propose a new model for financing autonomy if we haven't told the citizen that we weren't going to do this? No, no, Go ahead, we don't – we don't. So, we won't do that, you don't have to alienate him. Don't confound this with permanent dialing. In fact, at these times, with a government in place, we already have contacts to resolve those day-to-day issues that affect us, and we hope very much, from these meetings – we hope very much. And let's hope that if the Spanish government doesn't complete – of the People's Party we hope little, you are us at the Congress of Deputies – we expect your support in denouncing those constitutional failings that the Spanish government has in relation to Catalonia. And so, what are we going to ask, at last, a Spanish government when there is, and it won't be soon? What the citizens have instructed us to ask, and it is: to negotiate for this country to be an independent state soon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.113.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat about the latest political developments. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the threats of the Government of the State in all the steps of the process constitute]] [[317-00006/11]] The question is posed by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.114.0	Yes, thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, first of all, we would like to express our call and support for our fellow Member Muriel Casals, from the desire and certainty that she will soon be able to be with us, and to thank the rest of the parliamentary groups, so also the support shows she has had towards her. Justly, Muriel Casals, in being elected president of the Constituent Procedure Study Commission, said that this commission was to be a space of debate, dialogue, finding, counterposition of ideas, right? which are just these basic pillars of parliamentaryism and, therefore, also the basic pillars of democracy, aren't they? As is well known, the government in function of the Spanish State, therefore, is trying not only to cancel this commission, but to penalize all that these spaces are, I repeat, of debate, of dialogue, of counterposition of ideas and of threat of incapacity, so precisely the deputies who promote these spaces of debate, of dialogue, of counterposition of ideas, right? It knows hard, therefore, to see how a state and a functioning government, allegic to which is democratic deepening, is able to put even at risk what are these most basic and most elementary elements of the democratic system. As we said in the investiture debate, our determination to bring forward the democratic mandate of 27 September is total. We didn't come here, we said in that way, "to cook, but we came here to build a state because people can live better, they can live much better. And we have all the democratic legitimacy to get it out of the way. And to us, among other things, what does not scare us is neither the dialogue nor the debate nor the counterposition of ideas. We've shown it these days, the President of the Generality has shown it, so with the round of conversations with everyone, etc. And, therefore, we will not give up in any way to push our commitments forward. Now, even so, and this determination of the parliamentary group, what we wanted to know is the government's understanding of this continuing threat on the part of the Government of the Spanish State before all the steps we are taking, especially those aimed at dialogue, agreement, consensus, in this parliamentary chamber. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.115.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.116.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Turull, it is not really pleasant to have to work, to have to apply a democratic mandate always under the dàmocles's spasm of the constant, permanent, systemic, unfounded threat of the State that should be collaborating to make possible the democratic expression of the citizens of this country. I do not know how we have to say this more clearly, but we have come, in these days, to prepare a state to become an independent state, with the maximum legal guarantees, with the maximum protection for all citizens, with the maximum preparation of that state than in the present state structures. And to do that democracy has no other formula than to do it through Parliament, debate, dialogue. When they say that in the absence of violence it is possible to speak of everything, some naive ones we believed and decided that perhaps the citizens, if they want one thing, through their legitimately chosen representatives, could discuss it, as do all the parliaments of the world, in Parliament. That's what we're gonna do. And no one has any doubts about respect, huh? because sometimes there are people who are confused and think more about terminological debates than about the subject of the democratic mandate. I will tell you, if I may Councilman Vila, because I know that he is one of his reference authors, Jaime Gil de Biedma, taking his idea, I would say it very clearly, because he knows it: "That independence was serious, you have realized too late. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.117.0	After the control session, we pass now to the next point of the order of the day, which is the communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] The 28 genera proppassat were the months of the commissions. In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules, once elected in the months of the commissions, its composition must be communicated to the Plenary. The composition, constitution and election of the members of the months of the commissions has been published to the Butlletí Oficial del Parlament de Catalunya, and is also included in the file of the Ple, which has been distributed to all the deputies and deputies. I say to them, therefore, that his reading should be done. Completing the rule 49.2, we now move to the next point of the order of the day. [[Decree-Law No 4/2015 of 29 December 2015 on the financial needs of the public sector and other urgent measures for budgetary prorogation]] [[203-00001/11]] And it is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 4/2015, of 29 December, of the public sector's financial needs and other urgent measures for budgetary prorogation. In accordance with Rule 155.2 of the Rules, Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, hereby submits this Decree to the Law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.118.0	Good morning, everybody. Good morning, Madam President. Mr President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, let us begin with a clarification that is certainly superfluous for the economic spokesman of the respective parliamentary groups, but it may be an opportunity for those who follow us through the communication media. Today, it is simply a presentation of a decree of extension, of a technical extension, which automatically came into force on the 1st generation, as established by law. It's not a presuppositional debate: it's not the presuppositional debate. The debate on the assumptions will take place, and, if possible, it will, on our part, be with the intention of sharing the analysis, of sharing its diagnosis and of sharing, as much as possible, with the greatest possible majority that will accompany us, therefore, the appropriate measures to respond to the enormous needs of our society, in a context of many limitations of the nature of financing. Today, however, it is more technical, more technical, and I hope that this is the case: there are no indications, as I will say, that it contradicts the will to make a presuppositional debate that is intellectually stimulating and that is emotionally intense as most presuppositional debates are. And we all understand, at least, that this will also be emotionally intense. Therefore, today, on behalf of the Government, I present the Decree of 29 December 2015 on the financing of the public sector and other urgent measures with a budgetary extension, so that the Chamber considers its possible validation, in accordance with Article 155 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. I am therefore in agreement with the reasons for which this decree has been adopted. As is well known, it has been impossible to present the draft law of the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for the year 2016 within the necessary terms so that the 1st generation of 2016. Therefore, as he explained a moment ago, according to Article 33 of the text recast of the Law of Public Finance of Catalonia, the first day of the exercise, the 1st of generation, produces the automatic extension of the assumptions of the previous exercise. For this reason, the financial situations involving recourse to public debt operations for their balance need to be enabled with a rule of law. Therefore, because it maintains the situation of presupposition in the financial year 2016, and without prejudice to the legal framework entailing a situation of extension, certain financial needs have to be adapted. In this sense, the decree empowers the Government to authorize debt transactions, if it is possible to avoid giving away the economic and financial situation, that you know, today, and that you need extraordinary and urgent actions while the assumptions are not forthcoming. It also provides for the maintenance, during the period of presupposition, of the validity of the article of the Law of Presuppositions of the year 2015 that authorized the Government to provide guarantees with guarantees of financial operations that subscribe agricultural cooperatives with section of credit. The content of the decree is composed, therefore, as a result of this introduction we have just made, of four points in a single article and two additional provisions. The first point authorizes the Government, while maintaining the period of presuppositional extension, because it makes use of debt transactions in any manner with the limitation that the living balance does not exceed the authorization for the Law of Presuppositions of the Generality of the previous year, increased, yes, for the imports that derive from the debt programs that arise in application of the presuppositional stabilization legislation. The second point of this single article refers to public sector entities to which nine debt transactions are limited during 2016, provided that the outstanding balance of the debt of 31 December 2015 is not exceeded. This is in response to the possible need for public sector companies to formalise debt transactions to cover the depreciations expected during the 2016 financial year. The third point states that the increase in the generality's and public sector entities' living debt cannot exceed the sum of the limits authorised by the Law of Presumables of the Generality of Catalonia for 2015, increased by the imports deriving from the debt programmes which are introduced in the application of the presuppositional stability legislation. It is logical, along with all these considerations, to ensure that, in any situation that may be faced, the debt is maintained among the limits set by the legislation. This limitation responds to the need to reduce public deficit. Here everyone knows that there is an arbitrary imposition of character adopted by the Spanish Government in clear contradiction with all the recommendations that come from the European institutions, and that it allows to finance, therefore, this authorized, imposed and arbitrary limit of 0,3_per_cent of GDP, which, in the case of the Government of Catalonia, is equivalent to 647_million euros, and thus can cope with the necessary expenditure derived from public services. Thus, it is necessary to formalise the debt to finance the debt amortizations of the exercise. The Government of Catalonia finances both the deficit and the General Administration of the State authorizes autonomous communities such as depreciations. Cal, also, formalize other debt transactions to renew short-term credits with the resident bank. The fourth point of this single article states that while the budgetary extension is maintained at the length of 2016, the Government will be able to back up up to a maximum overall amount of EUR 25_million in guarantee of the financial operations underwriting the credit-secured agricultural cooperatives registered in the General Register of Cooperatives with the objective of returning the funds available in these sections to the holders, provided that the partners have not granted their credit, in advance of their formalisation. This ability, from the beginning of 2016, obeys the needy to be able to meet, if they get out, any need that some section of credit, before possible lack of liquidity, and give time to be able to realize their actions. Thus, it may be necessary to supplement, in some cases, the solvency of these entities to outsource their credit section. These endorsements cover a maximum of 75_per_cent of the financing operation, and it is the holding entity of the loan that establishes the guarantees for the remaining 25_per_cent risk, which must be approved by the entity's board of directors or their general meeting. The first additional provision of this Decree provides for the extension of certain measures in the field of personnel in relation to working life and to non-arrangeable selective processes, provided for in Law 2/2015, of March 11th, of the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for 2015, and which require a rule with a law rank, also – for this reason it leads to validation of this Decree – for the maintenance of its validity. In concrete terms, the text foresees the application during the extension of the presuppositions of the presuppositions in the Vuitean additional provision of the Law 2/2015, of March 11, which enables the convening of processes of internal promotion for the objects of you to function to what is referred to in article 35 of the Law 1/2014, of 27 of generation of 2014, of presuppositions of the Generality of Catalonia, in the same terms and conditions. This estimate is justified by the fact that, as was the case with the approval of the assumptions for 2015, some of these proceedings were not called for, a circumstance that recommends extending the validity of the measure. Thus, it is foreseen that during the period of budgetary extension the provision in the ninth additional provision of Law 2/2015, which establishes that the measures for the reorganization of staff expenditure, established for the sixth and ninth transitional provisions of Law 5/2012, for fiscal, financial and administrative measures and for the creation of the tax on stays in tourist establishments, will continue to apply. With this remission, it refers, in the first term, to the possibility of enjoying a period of voluntary surplus, of a minimum duration of one year and a maximum of three, during which the staff will operate right at the reserve of the place of work and the time to the effects of triennis and personal degree, surplus that prevents to occupy places of work in the public sector under the type of official or contractual relationship. In the second term, it also provides for the application of the measure relating to the non-authorization of perlongations in the active service, beyond the ordinary retirement age, to the staff of the Administration of the Generalitat, which is intended to cause right to the retirement pension or in exceptional cases the Government considers that it can authorize them to keep the authorities in force for reasons arising from the planning and rationalisation of human resources. Thus, despite the progressive improvement in the economic context, which at this time allows the general increase in the remunerations that we will present in the following decree, the experience in the later exercises advises the maintenance of these measures, since, if it is certain that these are aimed at the ultimate objective of assuming a measure of containment, they have also proved to be a valid instrument to continue advancing in the better efficiency and rationalization of the plants, which also constitute an irrevocable objective of the public administrations. It is therefore considered essential, in line with the Government's earlier presuppostary exercises, to continue to focus on the size of the plants and their maximum adaptation to the needs, so as to be able to cope with any surplus of staff that may be produced, with the aim of having all the resources necessary for each public action. All folded, taking into account that the automatic extension of assumptions affects both the states of expenses and entries as well as the standards of personnel expenses that include the Law of assumptions of 2015. The following additional provision also establishes a specific change in the legal nature of the Catalan Institute of Finance to adjust its powers and competences to the regulations issued by the regulatory bodies in the field of credit entities, so as to avoid any impairments in its immediate activity and, therefore, in the compliment of its objectives. The amendment seeks to avoid dysfunctions in the light of the fact that the Catalan Institute of Finance is not a credit institution that develops banking activities or, in concrete terms, the collection of deposits. In order to ensure the adequacy of the Catalan Institute of Finance to the activities which are its own and without prejudice to the process of transformation into a full-fledged credit institution, by means of the dispatch that is forwarded before the regulatory bodies, it is necessary, during this period, and urgent to adapt the rule to its true legal nature, in order to avoid that these bodies may question its activity and with the incidence that it may have in its day-to-day activity. For this reason, the wording of this article is minimally modified by introducing the following reference – between comets –: "that they are allowed for the law of existing entities – point. This is the change that is introduced. It is for all that I have put forward and the pre-eminent considerations that I have made about the necessary presuppositional debate with the will to do so with all the intellectual rigour, and also with all the emotional intensity that is necessary, it is for all these considerations that I submit to this House the validation of this Decree Law 4/2015, of 29 December, of the public sector's financial needs and other urgent presuppositional measures, with the confidence that the support of the maximum number of Members possible will be maintained, according to the many good reasons that we seem to have put forward. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.119.0	To fix his position, Mr. Antonio Espinosa, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.120.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, Vice-President, Members of Parliament..., Mr Junqueras told us that this is a decree law that has exclusively a technical character. I deny it; it has great political potential, it has great political connotations that I will highlight. To note, we find ourselves for the sixth time – not once, two, three..., not the sixth time – that the successive governments of the Generalitat are making us have to bring a budget extension to this Parliament. These governments have been placed, in bad practice, in bad democratic and budgetary practice. And I believe that to this exceptionality, this anomaly, we must put an end to it; I do not think that this is the way to proceed, year after year, in relation to what would be normal, to make budgets reach us at the moment it touches, not when they want it. Well, I believe that precisely this bad practice is due to the weakness, the growing weakness that successive governments of the Generalitat are having in parliamentary support. If they had enough support to generate alliances, instead of today bringing us this decree law what they would have brought us are the budgets themselves. They have not done so because they have difficulties, because they are probably unable to bring us today, and certainly even in the future, budgets that have the possibility of getting ahead. It is the same weakness that has caused us to be paralyzed as a parliament for more than three months, and it is the same political weakness that has caused the new President of the Generalitat not to be inverted until 10 January. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing an inability based on political weakness, and that is what makes today, I insist, we are debating an apparently technical issue, when there is a clearly political background behind it. Look, moreover, it is being abused, we have been abusing this figure of the decree law for six years, precisely when the Statute itself states that it must be exceptional, for reasons of urgency, and extraordinary. And for the same reason, it would already be sufficient reason for us to say 'no to this decree law. However, we have more reasons, we have quite more reasons. The first and fundamental is that it represents a continuity of a budget, that of 2015, to which we logically opposed, because what brought us here were the milk accounts, eh? , accounts that had a hole of 2,500_millions and that, precisely because there is a hole of 2,500_millions, during 2015 the only thing that has happened is that it has had to cover that hole with more deficit and more debt; a deficit and a debt that has increased to up to 68,000_millions_of_euro in the third quarter of 2015, and a debt that has increased in the last year by 5,000_millions and that places us Catalans precisely as the most indebted in Spain. That's the pure reality. And, look, there's one thing you can't dress up right now. It is the persistent – persistent – mismanagement of the last governments of the Generalitat. And that can be covered, you can try to cover with the help..., well, then, access to that if victimism, to that if we have poor funding, to that abuse and expoliation... But the truth is that that no longer hangs. The truth is, that's getting less and less credible. The truth is that, so much so, the former economic adviser himself had to acknowledge that in 2015 the fiscal deficit in Catalonia was 1.6_per_cent of Catalan GDP. Nothing of the 8,5, nothing of 16,000_million_euro: 1,6_per_cent. None of that. However – however – I want to move to the chamber that we still want to change the funding model. Our president, Inés, has already said that, and I would like to insist. Because I believe that it is possible to improve the financing system, we believe that it is possible to improve it and to do the most equitable, to do the most proportional, that taxpayers with more capacity contribute more proportionally and, in turn, also receive in proportion to their own needs. We understand that this is what needs to be injected, we need to introduce into the financing system and improve the way to improve their fiscal equity. But not to establish privileges, not to establish differences, but precisely to establish fairness for the whole system. Therefore, those who want to discuss, work, dialogue to change this funding system and do so in that direction, under these principles, within the framework of the LOFCA, know that they can count on us. And we're going to do that – we're going to do it. Look, we're going to do it with the government next door or even without the government. We are going to do this because it is a demand, as our Inés MEP said, precisely to benefit Catalans, to benefit the real ones, really. Since our work of constructive opposition, if we are not robbed of the democratic debate of the budgets throughout 2016, of which, frankly, we have serious doubts, that this draft budgets can come forward, then we want to contribute to it in a very clear way. We want to make it a budget to overcome the crisis and to leave behind, precisely, so many years of cuts that have been made by the governments of Convergence and Union, supported by Esquerra. We want to leave behind because precisely these have been suffered by the citizens. And we want to give back hope to the citizens that it is possible to live better without the need for independence. And we're gonna prove it, we're gonna prove it's possible. Because we want these budgets to be able to do something important, and it is to transfer to the economy a dynamism, to make Catalonia grow, to make Catalonia generate more wealth, to make employment grow. We want a Catalan economy precisely at the service of people, and of course, that Catalan economy at the service of people, based on business and innovation, which has as its axis – as its axis – and that is fundamental to our economy, to increase productivity, efficiency, sustainability. And all this for what? All this in order to guarantee, precisely, a social Catalonia and the well-being of its citizens. We believe that only a strong economy, an economy capable of creating jobs, will bring prosperity in turn, precisely for what? to carry out these social policies, social policies that today more than ever need to tackle inequalities and poverty, which is true that in these years they are increasing. And we want to reverse that trend and make inequality and poverty diminish, because they have reached some levels that I believe are inappropriate for a society like ours. We will also put forward reoriented budgets for better spending. Look, if we're not able to save, if we're not able to spend better, we won't be able to deal with the debt and therefore we won't be able to take away the slab and suffocation that it entails for the Generalitat's own policies. By the way, I wanted to comment: if you end up approving the budgets, I want you to know that, although Mr Oriol Junqueras has been saying for years that they will be..., which voted the last autonomics, the next ones will be autonomic again, won't they? But I'm afraid – I'm afraid – that we haven't seen the worst; I'm afraid that the accounting and financial masking that they're going to present to us is going to be out of order, because I don't think they're able to come up with anything else. And less evil that they are autonomous, because imagine if Mr Oriol Junqueras approving a budget of a state character, right? But I'll end up with good wishes. Look, I think, I think..., please wanted to ask Mr. Junqueras not to bring us a budget full of smoke, smoke of independence, because, if not, we'll end up having to need, huh? , FLA, FLA continues. So, like us, what we want is to stop the rating of rating companies from continuing to think of us as junk bonds, because what we want is precisely budgets that prevent that from going that way. And I'm very afraid – I'm very afraid – that they're going to take us back to a new and increasingly worse rating of the rating agencies themselves. It's... it's...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.121.0	Mr. Spiny, it's run out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.122.0	... – I'm finished, I'm finished, I'm finished, Madam President – the Catalans do not deserve us, sincerely, we don't deserve a government that..., and of course not a counselor, that, like the current ones, generates and increases uncertainties, mistrust in the financial markets, and that forces – forces – that we cannot access them directly. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.123.0	The word "Mr. Óscar Ordeig", of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.124.0	Good morning, President. President, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Members of the Government, Secretaries of the Economy, Mr Aragonès, good morning to all the people accompanying us and listening to us. First of all, I will open a parenthesis, and you will agree with me, Vice-President – I think it is good that you are in the Minutes and that you are saying here today–, in revulsion and in solidarity with the insults and the unfortunate messages that we have seen with regard to the Members of this Parliament, of the last weeks, which have also been repeated, with other Members, at other times, in this Chamber; as well as with the discrimination experienced by the women of our country, the Catalans, of our country, and that there is a lot of work to do, precisely, to fight against inequality, because that is... not done, but it is repeated with great frequency. Therefore, all our solidarity and revulsion to this fact. [[Greetings.]] From the Socialist Group – here I don't know if we will agree – what do we think: Catalonia needs an extension or some assumptions for 2016? Surely many of us agree that we need assumptions; assumptions above all in times of difficulty that we are, above all in times of change, because the other day and all the vice president recognized that some parties could increase their own assumption 2016, because we will have some major entries, we don't know how many. But in any case we are convinced, obviously, that public assumptions, public policies, everything that has been talked about here, everything that will be spoken in commissions, cannot be done, or many things cannot be done, or many pending investments cannot be done, if we do not have public assumptions, which is the best tool for public policies that this Parliament can have, that the Government of the Generality can have. We have said so many times: economic recovery, occupation; two, you serve public, and reverse many of the details that have been made, and fight for social cohesion; transparency, as we manage these accounts with transparency, and obviously we have said a new deal with the rest of Spain, and here it would be... as, day by day, with a dialogue attitude, we need more money. More than wandering about independence, I think it is also the government's obligation to have more money by 2016, and if that means facing negotiations for the revision of the financing system, or claiming the pending debts of the State with Catalonia, or claiming this fiscal deficit, which we agree with many of these claims, then we agree. Because it's all changing. Catalonia is changing, but Spain is changing, too. And, therefore, we would be looking forward, to the wait and see that pleased President Mas to say, to the expectation obviously that attitudes change, but it was also unfair to predispose a series of actions of the Government. We understand..., you said: "We are making a technical debate. But you're left with a part to reflect on everything. We agree with you: if the 1st generation has not approved, automatic extension. Therefore, it is a technical debate; it obliges the law, the Law of Public Finance of Catalonia. But it's not less certain that we're talking about money, we're talking about a 2015 budget template, which you're asking us now, to the rest of the groups, to endorse it for an extension. And the first one we gave him is: man, we could... so good we could vote for it. So much good, I'll tell you, so much good, so much good, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so, so much so. Will there be a presupposition 2016? They don't know. It seemed to us, for what he said, that there will be a presupposition 2016; but when? But what we wouldn't do is give him a blank check and say, "We're going to make presuppositional prorogations, with a bad staff, with some bad priorities, with a assumption that it wasn't his, it was Convergence's, but you also voted in favour, and, above all, because you're also responsible for this situation. Why are the last six assumptions only a_has entered in time and form? So, by election, very often, promises that in the end they can't complete. And that brings a series of misadjustments, and we don't have to be conscious. And, yes, that responsibility rests on Esquerra and Convergence, or now on Junts for the Yes. Therefore, they have a certain responsibility that today we are adopting a new extension and we do not have vital assumptions for the economy, for public services, for democratic regeneration, for transparency and for pulling the country forward. I do not know the rest of the parliamentary groups that they will do, each one will know, but legitimize, vote in favour or refrain from this presuppositional prorogation without knowing whether there will be a presupposition in the next few months, and therefore that this is possible to widen in time, some bad priorities, a bad presupposition, for us not coherent. We see that it is an old premise, we ask that we endorse a old premise for a new stage, that you also say that you want to open a new stage. Therefore, it will not be our case. We cannot endorse that we continue without a euro of Bressol schools in this presuppositional extension; we cannot endorse that it is continuing to subsidize the schools that secrete by sex, the shortcuts in salvation; we cannot endorse that the social expenditure is at eleven years old; we cannot endorse that we do not seek to increase the entrances that it needs. And it's true that we have asphyxiation to finance. I need to get more tickets. Therefore, as I said before, the debt must be claimed; a new financing model must be claimed. And obviously, because it's not all the Government of the Generality's fault – and here we are to control the Government – the PP certainly did not help. In attitude and in fact. Therefore, we must not fail to do so from parliamentary groups, but we must obviously also ask the government and its president to do what they have to do, and if others do not do what they have to do, then, in the end, time puts people in their place. How can we increase taxes and taxes, which affect some, precisely those that are less and are not progressive, and, on the contrary, we carry the inheritance tax, we carry the inheritance tax? It's not just – it's not just. Therefore, 1,000_million euros of less than they would add; therefore, we are not saying that much is to be taxed, but we can know very well what taxes are to be collected and, above all, what taxes are to be taxed. And the taxes that the Convergence Government has imposed, endorsed by the Republican Left, have been precisely the ones that have affected the most classes, the ones that they least have. So, who has the most, who pays the most. Fighting the tax fraud. There will be an increase in economic activity that will make us have more money. So hard? Yeah. Impossible? No, no, And this: we are here because the government does the best possible, the best possible assumption, and managed it from this assumption, which is also as important as this, the best management of this assumption. Presumables 2016? We, as always, and our president has said so, and I believe that with sincerity of action, more extensive dialogue. We're tired of saying that about the dialog, negotiation, and pact. Listen, we can extrapolate this to anything. It gives us the feeling that you have self-excluded. And, more than having more parliamentary and more government capacity, what they have is more parliamentary instability to approve the accounts – and they are proving it and we are seeing it in the communication media – and more unstable, precisely, to manage this assumption. Therefore, be aware of the reality and grab the extended hand of the groups of the chamber. If you go to independence, but you show that you manage well, that you have good priorities for public health, for education... Listen, we are a party, a socialist party, of the left, and what we ask is that this government swings to the left and corrects some erratic policies that haven't worked, that it has proved that they haven't worked. Dialogue and negotiation attitude, realistic. We want some assumptions, we think it's the most important, and so the extension goes as far as possible. We feel, we have demonstrated it with institutions in the country, we have demonstrated it here, we feel co-responsible for the difficulties of the citizens, for the governance of the country, that the government can have a premise and manage it, but we will obviously not do it by giving a blank check. We shall vote against the prorogation of the budget. We could have given a margin of confidence if the circumstances were different. We only had the negotiations on the 2016 budget open, we would have understood that it was impossible to have any assumptions, but we also know how far it will go. Do we think this is the converging assumption? Yeah, it's the one from 2015. Do we think the extension was avoidable? Yeah. Do we think it's a bad assumption for Catalonia? Yeah. Are we willing to collaborate and seek complicity for the 2016 premise? Also. We're going to give a blank check with this extension because you're doing what's going on year after year? Well, obviously not. So let's ask one more time for a big government, which weaves, that it is able to weave consensus, and not a government that is small, that self-exclosure, that only seek at the top of the bench some consensus that sometimes also prove very and very difficult. We can agree on economic recovery policies, we can agree on policies to strengthen public services and social cohesion, we can agree on transparency, we can also agree to claim from the Spanish Government what is ours, what is just and what is needed by Catalans and Catalans for the future of Catalonia. Many thanks, president, councillors, deputies and deputies. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.125.0	The word has Mr. Joan Coscubiela, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.126.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, I must acknowledge the great efforts you have made to present this as a technical debate. Let me tell you that in this room, technical, only technical, the engine there is to push and lower this cliff; everything else, political, and you know it. And this is the prolegome in the midst of the presuppositional policy debate that you have an obligation to do. And today I'm starting to tell him that I think it's very bad news that we don't have on the table just not the assumptions, but the proposal. And it's not for the three months lost with the investment debate. Don't take it as a toilet. But in any case, sense of doubt, it's evidence. You have asked forgiveness, you have shared self-criticism, and you have imposed penalties, but I am very afraid that you have a certain tendency to continue to sin, because we are seeing in these days some levels of gesticulation, of toilets, which point out that the 2016 budget debate, therefore, can incorporate or add political instability and block. And that, sense of doubt, flats on this debate, because you ask us to approve it for a presuppositional extension no more than to authorize debt renewals that, roughly, between one thing and the other, of 2,000_million euros; it's nothing. From this point of view, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, we can be aware of the need to deal with the renewals of the public debt of the Generality. They are sensitive to this reality, but at any price. We will oppose, we have said, no obstruction; but this also depends not only on us, but also on your attitude and the set of coalition parties that support this government. You, today, should have given us guarantees – you still have the opportunity to do so with your answer, if you are right to give it – that this extension will not be extended during 2016, because here you cannot ask us for a blank check, from this point of view, you have to tell us how long this extension lasts. We are not prepared to give you a vote that you assume will be extended in this presupposition for the whole of 2016 that would assume, almost, a presumption that was voted against for everyone, less for the Government of Convergence and Republican Unity and Left of Catalonia, even though you are camouflaged quite well during that legislature, but you say so. So, from that perspective... [[Funnel veils]] , of course, there is a risk here, a split-month legislature only, can only approve two assumptions. And if the ruling coalition is not in a position to guarantee the 2016 assumptions – I hope they deny it –, maybe they don't waste us too much time and tell us better. From this point of view, we are aware that the 2016 assumptions will not be easy and we are willing to participate in the elaboration of these complex assumptions, but not from continuity and resignation. And, in truth, we are concerned about the statements made by the councillor, the vice president, preparing the path of resignation: "They will be difficult assumptions, they will be unjust assumptions. So it's impossible to talk about it, because I think we have to break up with this resignation, with this continuum. And we offer him four axes to be able to dialogue: first, we must be able to grasp the public deficit targets that suffocate us. In the second place, we must be able to increase, from all its branches, the capacity of entrances. In the third place, we must be able to re-discuss, one by one, the spending parties, as would any family that cannot attend to their children and is, for example, defiant of the share of television per payment; which, compared to the assumption of the Generality, has not always been done. And, fourthly, to end the privatisations and sales of assets that have been left for today, we're tomorrow and we're trading forever for the rest of our lives. On these four axes we propose dialogue. But, of course, what you're saying today has a lot to do with this layout, because that's not strictly technical. It is important that this Parliament is committed to challenging the public deficit targets that scan us. In the 2015 debate, Councillor Mas-Colell pointed out several times that the Catalan Government had been the leading pupil of the troika, with the application of the reduction of public deficit which, logically, entailed reducing, also, social expenditure. Okay. This..., we have to get through this, and in this sense, we have to move from being advanced students of the troika to the spearhead of a policy that throughout Europe ended up with an imposition of a policy of false instability, false austerity. And here I know it's hard that it's gone, but I wanted to ask the president, you can convey it to him: is President Puigdemont, in this sense, willing to deny the European Stability Pact and the Spanish Stabilisation Act, endorsements for the government But voted, enthusiastically, for the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia? Clearly, because so much political schizophrenia is very difficult to maintain. Or does President Puigdemont continue the old technique of voting some things in Brussels and Madrid after coming to Catalonia to complain about the consequences of the things he voted, he or his party voted? These are the things we have to be able to plant. In the matter of better tickets, we plant them that we work with three perspectives. First – first – we have to work in the best of the Spanish state joint tickets. You will say: "It is now, if this does not touch, if we are disconnected! So, look, while we're not disconnecting, we're interested in the fact that the Spanish State has ceased to have a cadaveric tax system, because this is where an important part of our tickets come from. And, therefore, also, to Mr Puigdemont, we have to ask him whether he continues to endorse the policies that for many years have made Convergence and Union the main bulwark of the construction of a cadaveric tax system. Because here we can ask for more of the tax paste, even if the citizens of Catalonia claim it, all of the tax paste; but, of course, if this paste is every time smaller, as a consequence of ultra-liberal fiscal policies, we will have no resources to do anything about either the Federal Spain or the independent Catalonia. And this is a debate to make this chamber, if you really want to be something different. Secondly, it improves its own capabilities, its own resources derived from the autonomous financing system. Are you prepared to negotiate the autonomous financing system? We have listened to Mr Puigdemont who is not willing to lead him; but, well, the truth is that it seems to me to be a certain irresponsibility, because we play so much, that I believe..., I don't know if to lead him, but, as a minimum, play an active role, because that will depend, as a minimum, on the entries of 2016, as a minimum and probably of 2017. Clearly, you can say: "No, no..., it is that we are in the phase of disconnection and, therefore, this is the chocolate of crying. No, no, that's why we can either make policies or we can't make policies. And thirdly, from my point of view, what do you think you are doing, for example, to expand Catalonia's fiscal capacity in tax fraud? Miri, before I created – before, before I created – Catalan duanes, the Catalan central bank... – did you hear me, Mr. Raül Romeva? – the Catalan central bank unilaterally, you have to have very little memory to not remember that this is impossible to do, but, go on, I can ask. From this point of view, why don't we bring forward policies of struggle against tax fraud, obviously better the Catalan Tax Agency? Okay. These are the things that we plant in the material of better entrances. And then, too – also – with the ability to discuss all spending parties – all of them – you have to start answering whether or not you intend to keep, for example, concerts with elites, which secrete by sex. That they are not only against the basic concepts of coexistence of this society, but that they dedicate public resources in educational areas that, in change, could be devoted to other areas of education that at these times do not dedicate to them. Or, for example, if you think about continuing to burden the private health system to the detriment of the public system. So, well, these are the questions that are raised. And you also have to solve one thing for us: will you work here or will you work for the second disconnect folder? Clearly, until now, the previous government was very easy: it had an economic and finance advisor who knew how to do the wise well, didn't it? He didn't listen to anything his president gave him, and so... and he went to his. Even so, from time to time, he'd fuck them up, to you, and I'd say... after November 9th or a week later, he'd say, "If it comes down, we're going to get the FLA. This, after a week of the 9 November declaration of disconnection. He'll recognize that you have a little harder to do, to make sure you know... not because you don't have the skills, but because, besides being an Economics and Finance Advisor, you're the President of Esquerra. And, the truth, the personality unfolding that you will have to do, I think it exceeds any human ability. I hope – I hope – that, if you think about it, I will not get it. From this perspective, these are the views that we have from this point of view, and we believe that this is what we need to discuss now. Because you are not strictly imposing on us only a presuppositional extension of change..., which allows you to draw up financing debts of 2,000_million euros. He's laying something else on us. Let me tell you that we have set up – and it has been quite visible – this debate with a will, I insist, that you make it easy for us to work together with this situation. You know we've been raising the issue of forbearance at some point. But, of course, I want to wait to see your answer and I want to wait as well as the debate went, because what we will not do – and I can hear it – is to give them now a choice because you after management and some assumptions..., an extension that is raised as a strictly technical issue, of little importance, is extended throughout 2016, we do not have assumptions, which pass year-long employment, and we are able to overcome all the assumptions of 2015 extended and made easier, from this perspective, because of the needs there are. You also have the word, in part, in this, and, therefore, in this sense, ask them to attempt to answer our concerns. I ended up saying before: our will, of the Catalonian Group Yes, it is Pot, it is making opposition, left, national left, not making obstruction, but that, too, depends, and much, on the will of the government and the will of the dialog. Let's hope he's in touch with us soon to see what he's thinking of doing with the 2016 Generality assumptions. And, above all – above all – I suggest one thing to you, to clarify: why don't you make us the next floor, Mr. Vice President? "I am committed to having these assumptions presented before Holy Week; and, if I do not succeed..., it is obvious that a legislature with only two assumptions, and the first ones I can not present, I do not make them waste their time: I let it be; but not the assumption, the Government. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.127.0	The word has the Lord Enric Millo, of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.128.0	Thank you, President. Members of the Government, Vice-President, Members, Deputies, Secretaries of the Department of Economy, Mr Aragonès, who will also accompany us... Counsellor, Vice-President, when will we see the 2016 Project of Presuppositions? You've made a failed attempt, you've seen it for the interventions that preceded me, trying to make you think that this is a technical, strictly technical debate, right? And, in fact, the ugly thing was to lay down the bean before you had the wound, right? I know you'll tell me that. So I'm moving on and telling them it's technical, no. It's not a technical debate, it's never a purely technical debate in Parliament, is it? , and less so when we talk about the future law of assumptions that you are asking for now, so let's keep the 2015 extension, which is the most important law that can be made during a legislative exercise in the Parliament of Catalonia: the one that translates into numbers the political will of a government, right? , as important as that. Therefore, we, who did not like the 2015 Law of Presuppositions, obviously do not like that it is converted into an extension of 2016. But the best news of today would have been, as has already been said, that you started today telling us: "Look, we'll have law of assumptions on that day. All right. That would have been good news. It wasn't like that, his first intervention was earlier disappointing, wasn't it? And, after all, worrying and creating uncertainty, because you haven't told us about what we're most interested in, which is the presupposition of 2016. We find ourselves in front of a classic, ladies and gentlemen, a classic: the prorogation of assumptions. Six years ago we started every year with an extended assumption, for different reasons, it's true, not always because there was no ability to make the assumption this year. But for different reasons, I repeat, today is the sixth year that we start the exercise without having the assumption of the Generality. We've got to go to prorogation. I mean, here we're used to doing ordinary things that are extraordinary. This is the reality of this Parliament, and, in my view, this gives a bad picture of what it should be and is a clear demonstration of the lack of rigour and presuppositional stability of the governments of Convergence and Union and the Republican Left that have supported it over the past few years. What did Vice President Junqueras come to ask us today, here in Parliament? So, yes, some have already told him, too, who have preceded me in the use of the word: the Councillor of Economy has come to ask us for a blank cheque to do what he wants from the finances of the Generalitat while he lasts the budgetary extension of 2015, which, in fact, automatically from the 1st generation of 2016 is already in force. Today, you are petitioning us because we give you a blank cheque to do what you want, to be able to borrow, to be able to do other things, and in fact, you tell us or give to hear that you say to us: "I don't have a presupposition for 2016 and I don't know if I will. Because we've been listening to her that she doesn't know if she's gonna have any support or not. "If I have, I don't know how it will be, so provisionally sign me a blank cheque to borrow everything I consider appropriate. And, for that matter, Mr Vice-President, without a red face, they intend to take advantage of the validation occasion of this decree in order to smuggle us, in a camouflaged way, into the additional provision of this decree, a modification of Article 5.1, of the text recast of the Law of the Catalan Institute of Finance, according to which this institute that you want to convert into an independent bank in a future, which has already explained to us a few times, they claim to paste as I say here, a phrase that you in your explanation have obviated, which says: "That you have been exclusively under the supervision of the Department of Economy of the Generality. I do not believe, Mr Junqueras, that you have only come here to read the technical legal report – that we have listened to it as the law, we have also read it, obviously –; a report that has already been made by the Councillor Mas-Colell, I am sure that you have not done it, nor by Mr Aragonès this report, surely has already been left by Mr Mas-Colell. But there is a change, to which you have not made any reference, and I recommend, therefore, that you read the decree, not only what the technical report says, that this change is obvious, that in my opinion it is important and that you have hidden. I don't want to take our hair this way. You know perfectly well that Law 10/2014 clearly determines that the supervision of the entities of credit corresponds to the Bank of Spain. And you can't change that by mediating this law. I know that you know that and that, therefore, they are pretensions that you have put and put into the texts because you have put down a certain way of doing it, but that we, of course, from the opposition are also obliged to denounce. You are today a slave to an inheritance that is its own, not a surviving inheritance; an economic and financial legacy, which lies above the hands of a government that has made a harmful management of the public finances of the Generality; a Generality in debt, which you have found, the most indebted of all Spain – of the 13.531_million euros in debt that there was in 2003, today, at the beginning of 2015, with 70.832_million euros –, the most indebted. An uncontrolled deficit, which started climbing in 2008. Remember, some of you, power, that assumption in which you quantified a deficit of 470_million euros and that once settled in 2008 generated a deficit of 5,700_million euros? A small deviation of more than 1,000_per_cent. Anyone remember that? So, from there, we haven't managed yet to imbue this unusual growth of the deficit. 2014: €5,400_million, that is to say, a 2.75_percent of GDP, instead of the '1_per_cent, which was the target; 2015: €4,500_million, a 2.21_percent of GDP, instead of the 0.7_per_cent, which was the target. We are also, in this case, the autonomous community with the greatest deficit, with the highest deficit, and with the greatest deviation from the group of autonomous communities in Spain. Unbalanced finance, and I'm sure we could agree here, although we're the autonomous community..., we're not the funded worse, that this is also an urban legend, we're not the funded worse, there are other autonomous communities that are funded worse than our own and, in turn, they don't have a situation as unbalanced as we have in Catalonia. Therefore, some responsibility must also have the management of the Government..., what makes public finances available. Or is it always the fault of Madrid? , as we saw recently in a very fun esquetx, certainly, on Catalan public television: "Always, by day, by night, by night, the blame is on Madrid. No, there are things that are also direct responsibility for what the Government of the Generalitat does, for its management. A financing that, effectively, as you know..., we have also proposed its reform, and that you know, more than ever, that in 2016, thanks precisely to the economic improvement, we will also have a benefit as a consequence of the financing model. We will be, in Catalonia, the autonomous community most benefited from the increase of the financing model, resulting from the economic improvement, concretely with 1,861_million euros of increase. But with a very important incapacity to finance himself from the outside, very important. We've come up with some extraordinary financing mechanisms that the State has put into operation, haven't we? To be able to face the payments and all the debts, the amortizations of the loans, the debts of the good patriots... Remember, of those good patriots, paid 7_per_cent for the generality? Well, not for the generality, not for the extraordinary reasons of the state, because finally there was no money here to pay for it, was there? In total, from 2012 until here, EUR 55,000_million, we have had to pay for financing, the first part paying interest, effectively, and now no longer, now at 0_per_cent – now at 0_per_cent. This year, do you know the money we were saving, that the generality was getting away with it as a result of not paying interest? A thousand-hundred-million euros. It's not bad. For you to be able to do that, it's a minute's sin, it's tears. Home, I think 1,200_million euros of estalvi isn't bad people, is it? Therefore, with the need to adjust to objectives of balance, with objectives of deficit for 2016 that do not know whether you are willing to complete or not, because, clearly, to talk about these deficiencies and to go to an objective of 0.3_per_cent, that means 600_million euros of deficit, to pass from 4,500 of the year passed to 600_millions, even though there is a million of 1,800_millions for the model of financing, you lack 2,000_millions, 2,100. So it would be really good to know what you're going to do, wouldn't it? It's to say, in short, no room for manoeuvre to do what you like best, which is spending more than you have. But this heredity does not alienate him, as he gave it to the beginning, is the consequence of a government, the one of Arthur Mas, which preceded him and of which you also formed a part. Yes, in part, because without your votes and your presence, even from your party's advisors in the same Department of Economy, you couldn't have gotten to this catastrophic situation. And, therefore, there are very important questions that you have not come to clarify, that they are the ones that you will have to clarify as soon as possible. What will be the priorities of the budget? Will it be sanitation, education, social services, attention to families, economic recovery, job creation, infrastructure investments? Or will the full route to the breakup and the process constitute for the separation? The level of debt: Will it increase even more? How will you do it? Deficit: Is it committed to the objectives set for the European Union? Finance: Will there be more fiscal pressure? Will he push us or lower our taxes? Is it committed to dialogue with the Government of Spain to negotiate a new, fairer and more balanced funding model? You're counting on our support, you're going this way. The mismanagement: Will you be able to correct and correct the harmful economic management due to convergence and left in previous periods or not? I'm done. Therefore, counselor, present a draft of assumptions as before better, I did not lose a day of time, but I am already in advance, counselor, that it will be very difficult for you to gain confidence, that confidence which you obviously do not have, and that therefore we will not give you a white check. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.129.0	It has the word the lady Eulàlia Reguant, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.130.0	Thank you very much. Good morning, I'll make a statement, a consideration, a question and a conclusion. The Previa: Congratulations to the companies of Askapena, who have just been absolved. Askapena aurrera; internationalism and international solidarity can never be criminal. But let's get into the debate we're having here today. One consideration: the assumptions may be extended, but the needs of society are not. We have extended assumptions that are absolutely insufficient to meet the needs of Catalan citizenship. And they are assumptions that are not, in any case, the result of any fatality or curse; they are the result of the policies of the troika, the policies of austerity, the policies of those who promoted the reform of the Constitution with Article 135, the policies of those who promoted and approved the Organic Law of Presuppositional Stability in May 2012, which are here, all of them, represented in the chamber. We cannot reflect the patience of society with statistical data. Every person who suffers from precariousness, suffers from a hundred_per_cent. There is no statistics, no figures that can gather the suffering, the anguish, the sadness, the fame, the cold, the despair of hundreds of thousands of families who suffer all these deprivations today in our home. All these data, moreover, would be offended, silenced, in the opulence and fredor of the marble and the captives of this building. We want to remember, as we said before, that 71 per cent of the expenditure on social protection under the 2015 assumptions is totally insufficient to cope with this social reality that we are experiencing. And to take into account that the model imposed so far on the Catalonian Government with its accounts is a model based on covering holes and emergences, with multiple small and restricted aids, that stigmatize and complicate the life to which it must be continuously asking and going from window to window. According to the Insocat report, prepared by ECAS, the Catalan Social Welfare Entities, the causes of the growing inequality of society are multiple, but the evolution of the past years forces us to place the emphasis on the precariousness of the labour market and on the shortcomings of the social protection system. The later labour reform, which was more boosted and voted for by parties represented in this chamber, has given way to a clear deterioration in working conditions and to an increase in youth and long-term working conditions. The phenomenon of poor workers has been consolidated. According to the latest data, practically a 12-percent of working people have an entrance that does not exceed the threshold of the poor. But we can also look at the evolution of the Arope rate, a rate defined for the 2020 strategy of the European Union. So, it's a tax that's not likely to come from the anti-systems, from the strafolaris, or from those that seem like some here have so much for. It is a tax that allows us to make a global and qualitative assessment of the situation of the person, reflecting the multifactorial character of the poor. In concrete terms, this tax in Catalonia has gone from 23_per_cent to 26_per_cent in five years. A quarter of the Catalan population is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Now you see the question: Is the Generality involved? If we are talking about the financial needs of the public sector or about urgent measures with a budgetary prorogation, we need to talk about the debt; about that part of the assumptions which, every year, increases; about that part which, at the moment, never suffers from the details. The Government of Catalonia's debt went from just over €15,000_million in 2007, before the economic and systemic crisis, to accumulating debts of more than €51,000_million by the end of 2012. We're already over EUR 68,000_million. With this increase, they want to see the policies based on the economic growth without the end of the 1990s and 2000, but also the four issues of good retailers, the famous « good patriots, and other issues of financial markets that both the government of the tripartite, first, like the Government of Convergence and Union, then did between 2010 and 2012. Short-term detailed issues that were paid interest between 4_per_cent and more than 5_per_cent. In addition to commissions to the financial entities that managed the sale, between 1.35_per_cent and 2.47_per_cent. In fact, if we rely on reports from the Union of Accounts, we will see that we have paid the interests between two and three points over the Euribor, already in itself an absolutely abusive fee. Therefore, the intervention of the Spanish Government lending to the autonomous communities which, until then, had been financed through the financed markets, like the Government of Catalonia, has to be heard in good measure as a rescue clause to the creditors of the autonomous governments. In another way, the FLA has been used to rescue creditors, once they have laundered debts that might have been illegitimate or illegal. It has been the bailout of investment banks and large businesses before the escalator of the economic crisis and its impact on public finances. Let us not forget, therefore, that this rescue is what we end up paying the citizens at last. 2016 is expected to exceed €70,000_million in debt and, therefore, we will have to predict how we will pay or refine the more than €100,000_million that they win. It is up to us to return to the FLA or refine ourselves through the FLA, because, in the background, we already know that the international markets no longer lend us and that, like many, the bank, to whom already owes 30,000_million euros, can lend us a mike but not excessively. This situation, which can a priori be read as an extreme dependence of Catalonia on the Spanish State, also provides us with an absolutely powerful pressure tool. Can the Catalan government allow 'to disobey and stop paying the FLA? Not to do so is to allow Madrid, the troika, the European Union, to manage the economy of the Generality; in short, to cede the majority of autonomouscompetences. Therefore, I need to prepare the alternative. In order to be able to make up for having a B plate on the way, as we were able to prove and we could prove with Greece and Syriza's policies. And this reminds us of one of the objectives of this legislature: to prepare the structure that will allow the collection of taxes directly. But we can also start to establish or prepare to establish capital control, to have the monetary issue resolved or to negotiate with you with the European Central Bank. But today we do not approve assumptions; so today we can facilitate the approval of this decree, but we cannot take away the debate of our assumptions. Prolonging means having very little room for manoeuvre; making some accounts forces us to decide and expose where the fund is applied or whether, on the other hand, it addresses the needs of the people. From that people who, as we said before, saw an unbearable reality. The decision to extend the presuppositions, for the time being, makes this parliamentary and social debate impossible, because it must also be social, on the presuppositions. We understand and want to make it clear that, if the prorogation of the assumption allows us to continue with the blackmail of the debt, still with more motivation we must allow ourselves to deploy social policies pending and abused in the past legislature. Therefore, today we will facilitate the approval of the decree, convinced that in the presuppositional debate we will address the imperative need to increase the entrances and address the imperative need to disobey or rethink – in language that does not scandalise anyone – the submissiveness in which we live, the debt and the dictates of the troika, bearing in mind that on November 9 we approved that the future government will establish a calendar of meetings with the leaders of the resident bank to study the possibility of renegotiation of the payment of interests with social purposes. We're here to make this possible. We will facilitate the approval of the decree, but do not forget that neither the debt is a fatality nor the policies to apply its fatality, but they depend on clear political wills, to reverse social policies until now imposed and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.131.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.132.0	...and build a real change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.133.0	The words of Mr Roger Torrent, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.134.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies, I have just been told by Mrs Reguant: today we do not approve assumptions, this is not a debate of assumptions 2016. I say this because of his interventions, most of the interventions, whatever we're doing today is discussing the 2016 assumptions, and it's obvious that he's not. Today we do not approve the 2016 assumptions, but what we are doing is, merely, a debate – said the Vice-President – purely technical on a validation decree of the previous year's presumptions; therefore, a strictly technical debate that has three points that I will remember – because it seems that it has escaped from the previous debates, and those who have been able to listen to it, in the debate, may have been lost, and therefore it is good that we turn in some way specifically to what we are talking about today – a decree, therefore, which authorizes the Government to carry out operations of the debtor, which authorizes the Government to guarantee endorsements to cooperatives with confidence – according to this decree – and the Financial Regulation, which adapts to the Financial Regulation. What's more, these are the three points of this decree that the government is empowered to throw away until we're supposed to do this 2016. Therefore, to take part today, to debate today, does not mean to make a position respect the previously approved assumptions, nor does it mean, above all, to take a position on the assumptions, the debate of which will already come in due course in this chamber. Therefore, probably exposing these three only points that the decree has, we would do too much. But, in any case, let me go in and get some of the considerations that the different groups have made, which, taking advantage of the fact that the holder of the decree was talking about assumptions, have already advanced some of the positions that they will make when, effectively, these assumptions or this project of assumptions enter the chamber. Mr. Espinosa, from Ciutadans, said or complained that there was a prorogation of assumptions and said that this was an anomaly... Well, if there is a prorogation of assumptions, Mr. Espinosa – now the see, not the see – if there is a prorogation of assumptions is because there have been elections. There have been elections and, therefore, there has been no material time to lay down some assumptions. It could have done something else, as the PP did in Madrid, and somehow also in third place Mr. Millo, who is, in desperate, careless, counter-rolling, approve some assumptions for coming elections. Surely the most reasonable thing is to expect a new government, nine major parliaments, to prepare us for a new legislature that begins. We will see, in any case, Madrid and the Government of the State, if, as the President said, they take an example of Catalonia and they are distancing themselves to agree, to confront ideas, to confront projects, to govern and to work. And anyway, Mr. Spiny, and referring to the contents you were commenting on, I insist, huh? , does not respect this decree, but the previous assumptions, the assumptions that will come, said you – and I think it was almost literal – that complaining that the assumptions are unfair was victimistic. I would say that before he intervened he agreed with the president of his group, Mrs Arrimadas, because just before, in the turn of questions to the president of the Generalitat, he said that Catalonia's financing system was unfair. So either he's a victim or he gives us the reason that the financing system is unfair. In any case, he agreed. And he finished his intervention by making a kind of joke between « smoke, smoke and « FLA, FLA. So, look, the citizens of Catalonia don't want either smoke or FLA – neither smoke nor FLA. What the citizens of Catalonia want is democracy in order to choose our future, resources and skills translated into assumptions in order to help our people. That's what the citizens of Catalonia want, and they don't want either smoke or FLA. To the PSC, to Mr. Ordeig... I'd like to blur some of the clarifications you've made, which seems to me to be a little harsh, huh? In any case, I'm sure we'll have more opportunity to confront them. He was talking about the estate tax. Listen to me, the estate tax is recovered, and it's getting bigger now than 2010. The estate tax is recovered, and it is getting more involved now than with the reform of Councillor Castells. And the heritage tax, which you also said: "We have to push the heritage tax, well, the heritage tax is already the highest in the State – it is now the highest in the State. And for what he does to us, he said: "We have to impose taxes on us, but taxes that you gave that the families of the country, the most needy people, do not come. It seems to you that the taxes that we promoted in the last legislature, that affected nuclear, for example, that affected banks, for example, or that affected the price of aircraft fuels, do you think that these are taxes that affect the most vulnerable? Are they taxes that will precisely redistribute the returns of those who can most vulnerable? In any case, what I'm sure is not helping the country's families is reducing the tax on gambling; it certainly doesn't help the country's most vulnerable families. Mr. Coscubiela, Catalonia Yes, it is possible, well, in any case you said that we have to make self-criticism or that the groups that we are part of the majority of Parliament that we support this Government should make self-criticism for the extent of the negotiations during all these three months that we have committed to having government... In any case, I believe that this self-criticism or this criticism that the groups are going to make, I suppose it goes for everyone, also for the other governments that at these times are negotiating, they are comparing, they are dialogueing and they are trying to make new government. I don't know how many months they'll trigrate to the Spanish state to make government; in any case, we already have government, we already have priorities, and we got to work. And, moreover, I am convinced that you will be so: you will also accompany us in a good part of the objectives that this government has marked, with parliamentary action, to bring them to fruition. And we'll talk about everything, obviously, we'll talk about everything, Mr. Coscubala. We'll talk about everything in the 2016 presuppositions, we'll talk about everything. Let's talk about these four axes that you have commented on. We are prepared to talk about everything to this parliamentary group, the majority of Parliament, but above all the Government, this vice-president and this department, which are in charge of making this proposal for assumptions. But I let him say a couple of things respect those axes he commented. The first, about the deficit. He said: "We must denounce the deficit, the limit of deficit imposed on us – I think he said so, more or less, huh? –, « we must denounce the deficit limit imposed on us by the Government of the State. Well, we've denounced it sometimes. But not just with statements [[Funnel veils]] ... I voted – and voted – exactly. And we've planted it, and we've even challenged it in court. Now, it's never more, so say it, huh? Welcome, we're here again to denounce the deficit limit imposed on us by the State. And for what you're doing on the ticket, man, we've tried all the taxes that we've been able to, this past legislature, many of which were appealed to the Government of the State to the Constitutional Court. We've expanded, too, before, the inheritance tax, the property tax, the transmission tax, etc. In any case, as the president put it a while ago in this same room, President Puigdemont, if we're laying out expansive assumptions at expense, I'm sure they'll help us make some expansive assumptions at tickets. But in any case, let's talk about it, we're open to talking about everything at the beginning of 2016. Well, and anyway, for what he does to Mr. Millo, he said, "Home, this year the interests on the FLA will be zero, you tend to zero. Home, it would only be necessary for us not to pass on the types of interest the European Central Bank has on to the autonomous communities. In doing so, it's usury, it would be usury. It's actually what they've been doing, what Minister Montoro's been doing all these years, usury, through the FLA. And that's what we want to get over. In any case, I take the words given by the Vice-President, and on behalf of the parliamentary group that supports the Government, we want to analyse the situation. It is obvious, and here I can remember – Mrs. Reguant also did – that there is a compromise to the annex to the statement of 9 November to study the financial situation of the Government of Catalonia and look for alternatives. Well, in this mark and in the mark of this Parliament, I'm sure we'll discuss, confront ideas, confront proposals. In any case, a few previews before this debate, or three previews that we would like to re-schedule and re-post manifest before this explicit discussion of the 2016 assumptions. The first: they can never be, the assumptions we approve, in any case, they can never be the assumptions that Catalans and Catalans deserve from us. While the assumptions are autonomous, they will never be the Catalans and the Catalans we deserve. We'll make them as fair as possible, and in that we'll work and leave our hair there, to make them as fair as possible, but they'll never be what we deserve, while they're self-contained and not presupposed of a state. Second consideration: the deficit limit determines the Generality..., it does not determine the Generality – forgives –, it determines, in this case, a minister in office, Minister Montoro, it determines the Government of the State. Therefore, this is the first consideration, the first limitation that we need to take into account. Third: the total presuppositional availability does not mark the Government of Catalonia, not the Government of the Generality, but also the Government of the Spanish State. Therefore, the total of the presupposition, the total of the presupposition of the Generality does not mark the Generality, but the mark l'Estat. I ended very quickly, in any case, opening the door to negotiation, opening the door to the dialog, opening the door to confront ideas and to seek, taking into account this mark, this mark that holds us, the most just assumptions for the city and the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.135.0	I'd like this intervention... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. The president intervenes without using the microphone. Pause.]] Well, we're wearing forty-six seconds that, in fact, we haven't served, perfect. Listen, I would like this intervention to end, to come back, not in the sense of a reply about the debate on the presuppositional prorogation, that most groups have tried to avoid all possible mechanisms and have wanted to make the preamble of a debate that is not today, that is the debate on presuppositions. Therefore, you understand that, in view of the fact that there is much to be said to correspond to the groups and their spokespersons, I would like to make an intervention related to the argument of assumptions, but it will necessarily be a very brief intervention, because it is not the one that is close today, that we are in a debate on the presuppositional prorogation. Various considerations. The citizen group spokesman said that they wanted to make assumptions that were very fair and intended for the revival of the economy... – like everyone else, the same one that everyone said. And if your intervention is based on the experience your group has in managing autonomous communities and joint ventures, then as soon as we can appreciate it. With regard to the rate of presentation of assumptions, this government carries everything just, not yet three weeks. Go on, God save us, that we had some assumptions, because then they would accuse us of making assumptions when there was no government yet and that alters all parliamentary forms. If we wear two weeks, it's obvious we can't carry the assumptions. We have announced, yes, our willingness to make a presuppositional debate, which we understand – and interventions so it seems to me to prove – that it will be emotionally intense. I've said it, we've already picked it up. In fact, like most of the presuppositional debates. Therefore, this will certainly not be a novelty; perhaps it will be a little more intense from an emotional point of view. No, that's all right, so we'll manage it, but when we get close. And we'll try to make it as soon as possible, obviously. More generic character considerations about total assumptions. As Mr Torrent said, the total budget of the Generalitat de Catalunya is not decided by the Government of the Generalitat de Catalunya or the Parliament of Catalonia. The total budget of the Government of Catalonia is decided by the Ministry of Finance, because it is the one that decides which are the economic growth forecasts, which are the fiscal replenishment forecasts and, therefore, what determines which is the beast that is the joint of the public administrations and, therefore, determines the total budget. Therefore, you can see that we can make a debate about assumptions as if we can decide on the total assumption of the Government of Catalonia, but we cannot, because this total already gives us, and gives us according to repeatedly arbitrary criteria, and we have seen with recapitulation forecasts that they were calculated at the bottom so that the beasts were at the bottom and, therefore, asphyxiate the joint of the sub-state public administrations. Also the autonomous communities and the governing assemblies for the People's Party, they have also been victims of these arbitrary decisions. It is obvious that this is especially difficult in those administrations that have very important parts of their public spending underdotades from the principles of transposition, as in the area of sanitation in Catalonia, which seems to me to be shared by everyone. And so, if it's shared by everyone, it would be good if we didn't act like it wasn't, because if everyone agrees that it's so, so, listen, it doesn't cost anything to recognize it. And, therefore, this arbitrariness in the decisions of the Spanish Government at the time of calculating the growth forecasts, the recapitation forecasts and, therefore, the beast, therefore, it is obvious that they have more severe consequences in those areas in which there have been such important understatements as that of Health in Catalonia, and that is why all those who have passed through the Spanish governments, all without exception, are responsible. And in this sense, when Mr. Ordeig says that they represent a left-wing party that reduced taxes to higher returns, a left-wing party that agreed with the PP to change the Spanish Constitution one night ago, to impose that the payment of the interest of the debt years before any social consideration, and then, at the same time, go here and give it away because we have no social considerations at all when it turns out that the assumption of the Catalan Government currently in force and that we are asking to extend the percentage of social expenditure higher than all the public administrations of the Spanish State. And if we can't determine the total presupposition, certainly, and the 88_percent of the expenditure is finalist– if we can't determine the total presupposition and the 88_percent of the expenditure is finalist– explain to us what margin we have, because we can make a debate about – which would be very good, very good – reducing fiscal pressure, increasing public spending, reactivating the economy... But you are aware of the impossibility of doing all these things simultaneously. And the proof that it must be very hard to do it is that you can't get it anywhere. If you have management responsibilities, you can't get it anywhere. And they deny the Government of Catalonia, the Administration, the majority parliaments because the debt is very high, and oblivion that the debt of the General Administration of the State and of the joint public administration of the State is, in per capita terms, immensely higher, because the debt of the Generality of Catalonia represents approximately 30_percent of GDP, while the debt of the Spanish State represents 100_percent of its GDP. Therefore, reflect on what they say before you say it, because, if not, the same words that you use here are meant to be tripled, which we try not to do in order not to mislead the climate so propitious that we have in the approval of assumptions together in this Parliament, let us say to ourselves. There were some more interventions that I would like to respond briefly. When Mr. Coscubiela said: "We must fight the tax fraud, totally agree. As we have to fight against tax fraud and the Government of Catalonia has the partial management of 5 % of the taxes paid by the citizens of Catalonia, the first thing we have to do in order to fight tax fraud is to have the necessary tools to fight tax fraud, so help us - here, we have these tools; that is precisely one of the priorities of this Government and of this majority of Parliament, to have these tools. Why, if not, how will we fight the tax fraud, if we don't have the tools to do it? And these things, it's obvious, that... well, it seems obvious to me that the experience so teaches and the interventions of the rest of the groups so seems to me to endorse it, they won't come to us gracefully for the future Spanish government, much so that some of you have an active participation, if that's the end of it. Therefore, if they are to do a certain function in the fight against tax fraud, we will have to have the necessary tools to be able to fight against tax fraud; otherwise, it is difficult. Use the deficit targets. Listen, let's challenge them, let's challenge them as much as you want. Actually, when you've challenged them a lot, if you want, I'll challenge them a little more. But once we did this, with the current circumstances in which we do not have the first tools of a state, it is obvious – and Mr. Millo reminded us a moment ago, kindly, so – who takes decisions on the remedy of deficiency; he said that it is the European Union. You're not sure, are you? It is not true, that is not true, Mr Millo, it is not true – it is not true – that you distribute the remedy of deficiency that you see from Europe in the way that they think most appropriate and in the most arbitrary way that contradicts the recommendations of the European Union. Therefore, they do exactly the opposite of what the European institutions tell them to do. So until we have the necessary tools, how do we do it? If a state, with the fullness of the tools of a state, as in the case of Greece, is it obvious that, by far the contested ones, it ended up accepting these conditions, as we do not accept them if we do not have, by chance, tools comparable to the tools of a state? And precisely, we are on the road to trying to hold them so that we can make sovereign decisions about the conjunction of our decisions. And it is clear – and it is clear – that the international context, in this sense, will be decisive about the set of decisions that we make here. Definitive. And on economic growth: do not forget that the Catalan economic growth is clearly superior to the average of the economic growth of the Spanish State; and clearly superior to the average of the economic growth of Europe; clearly – clearly. So... And that Catalan exports grow above the rhythm of any export from the Spanish State, it is also evidence – it is also evidence – and that foreign investment is in the highest historical state, and that girls' contributions to tourism as well, and, therefore, that all those elements that are linked to the external sector of our economy are very good: exports, foreign investment, tourism..., very good. And it seems to me that it's okay to explain it because it's a fact and an evidence. Certainly, a fact and an evidence, also collected, in this case, for the Central Administration of the State; I do not think it is object of discussion. All right, the debate we're going to have to face when there's the presupposition debate, which is not what we're going to have to face today because it was a debate about the presupposition prorogation, it's going to turn around all these elements, clearly, yes, yes, but, I insist, that's what we're going to do in our own debate. I already know that today they have tried to avoid the debate about the presuppositional prorogation, which is what we were supposed to do today, as long as we have two weeks of government and, therefore, it is obvious that it is not possible to carry the presuppositions in two weeks, of course not. And in any case, I insist, it will be a pleasure to talk to and pass on, with those who want it, both the input instruments and those expense parties that we can modify. But, I insist, 88 percent of the assumption is final. The margins that remained, I escorted, a pleasure to discuss it. And everything that comes after we have all the tools, obviously, too, huh? - Obviously, too. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.136.0	The vice president spoke for twelve minutes, four seconds. So we'd do two minutes for each group. If you want to start... I don't know who will start. Mrs. Arrimadas or Mr. Espinosa, who has made the debate, have the word two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.137.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, if nsha says our management experience, so, it's small. So, I have to admit that if you were to look at the management, some should not have been appointed economics and history advisors, the truth. I think they have little knowledge to lead, in this very important white of politics, a situation like there is. But, more than that, they're always covering up the same reality. Look, they say to us, "We have more deficit in Spain than here in Catalonia. Of course, of course we have more. But we don't have to compare ourselves to the Spanish state just with the rest of the autonomous communities, and the rest of the autonomous communities have fewer deficits and fewer debts. And what does that prove? So, they're caps of bringing to term autonomous policies of better management. And that's what I want to say. Because, including – including – they are not the capdavanters of ‘no to cuts. We have cut back perhaps more than anyone and, in spite of everything, we have more deficit than none. I mean, so, if we're the most indebted, we'll be able to understand it. And now, say one more thing and I'm done, ma'am... saying we're here today not because... because it's been four months, and they've been hijacked, hibernating, in a coma, this Parliament. If not, today we could have the budgets here already. Or soon – or soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.138.0	Next, has the word Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.139.0	Thank you. Vice President, very quick. Miri, the Association of Social Managers of Catalonia, says: "Caltaunya, the second autonomous community that has reported most in social spending to Spain – okay? « Only for the rear of Castile - La Mancha. Constable. So something must have done wrong. As the company of the CUP commented, "more unequal than ever, social inequalities and territorial inequalities. So, listen, apart from the numbers, which are very cold, there is a reality that we cannot ignore. And, therefore, we do not deny the extension of the premise, but we are told: "We do not love the head under the wing. And, therefore, we are saying to him: "We would do a technical debate if there was a parallel political debate here. So he doesn't have a blank. We say no to the days no to the days no to the days no to the Others say no to the 2015 pressupost and now give them an extension. So he's fine, they give him a margin of confidence. We can't give it there because, among other things, it hasn't changed kings. And, therefore, there is an extension because you are going to call elections every two by three, not because the Socialist Group has not been willing to negotiate and seek solutions. So, can we do better? Yeah. Are you ready to stretch your hand? Yeah. But for the time being, this is not the attitude of the government or the parliamentary group that supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.140.0	There's a word from Mr. Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.141.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Junqueras, Mr. Vice President, let's get out of here, really, with the conviction that, all the way out of uncertainty and giving security, this debate generates all the opposite. Let's get out of here with the conviction that you are not in a position to present a presumption in prudential time. And I'll justify it. A few essential votes, which are those of the UPC, have just suggested that the solution is, concretely, to generate a Catalan tax legality with which the citizens tax there. Two days ago the President of the Generality said to us: "We do not subdue the citizens of Catalonia to double legality. Can anyone really believe that it is unilaterally possible to create a tax law without even having the censuses? Can anyone really believe that it is possible to create a public social security without having any data on the professional history of these people? One thing is to generate illusion and the other is to keep fooling people. And that's what leads us to say: listen, you're not asking for a presuppositional extension for a short period of time, you're asking for a blank check, while you're continuing to expand this situation, and you're making us responsible for a situation that's you that's causing it. They must be made clear once and for all: if they want to generate a management environment of daily reality, with all the break that you want but a few on the ground, or if they want to keep blowing up this thing of unilaterality. And that's a lot to see with another debate. The topic of public deficit. You see, Mr. Counselor, it's not a matter of denouncing, it's a matter of coherence. Here it is possible to denounce the public deficit a lot, but its president cannot denounce the public deficit, because it forms part of a party that voted in Brussels and Spain for the Stability Pact and the Presuppositional Stabilisation Act, which are the marches from which these policies of "austericides" are imposed. They can't continue to vote on things in Brussels and Madrid and then come here to complain. And it's true, you're right about one thing: then, the distribution of this, of the public deficit, determines it profoundly unfairly in the Spanish State. This is why we propose to make it a common front with all the autonomous communities to re-discuss this poorly distributed deficit. But you think you can go and set up other autonomous communities to make a common front to redistribute this deficit target more fairly, if you're telling them that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.142.0	Time's up, Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.143.0	...if you're telling them that the year we're going to be disconnected and out of Spain? You're absolutely unreal. Certainly, I finish, Madam President, with one thing only: tax fraud, they will find us; but for example they will find us applying the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy, while we do not disconnect, with one thing: the best thing that can be done to fight against tax fraud is to have sovereignty over own taxation and cooperation in the fight against tax fraud. Two tax agencies in Catalonia are making it easier for evaders and fraudsters... because what they show in Catalonia, Spain and Europe is that cooperation between administrations...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.144.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.145.0	...is the best way to fight the tax fraud. And, by the way, comparing Syriza to Democratic Convergence is a little distressed, because Syriza can't help but... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.146.0	Time's up. There's a word from Mr. Enric Millo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.147.0	Thank you, President. Since we only have two minutes, a preliminary consideration and three points very short. The previa. Mr. Vice President, you haven't had three weeks, you've had three years. That they want us to think he's a new government, is that it? Convergence and Esquerra three years ago he ruled Catalonia; therefore, he did not come to tell us that he had three weeks. He knows perfectly well what the Generality's premise is. If I wanted to, I would have been able to present a presupposition; pass, it did not. First, the object. You say to us: "Oh, we all share the same objective. Sorry, we'll listen to you when they talk, huh? , and it seems that you have an objective that is the separation process and independence of Catalonia from the rest of Spain; this is its objective. We're talking about other things: we're talking about social issues, economic issues, we're talking about families, we're talking about creating an occupation... you camouflage the main objective through questions that concern everyone and want to create the public opinion that we share the objective, but it's not true. His object is one, and ours is another, which I think coincides much more with the concerns of Catalans. And, it's more, if we listen to President Puigdemont, when he publicly tells television that the premise is only the one that wants to negotiate and waits for the support of the UPC, they're already perfectly telling why and how that assumption will be. And we've been listening to him recently in a TV interview. Second, the total expense, the expense floor, Mr. Vice President, don't say that he decides another, he decides Madrid or I don't know who; he decides you. Or go on, tell the truth, don't lie, don't intoxicate public opinion. You decide on the expense floor. The 2015 Generality Agreement of 27 January 2015, the Generality Agreement, of the Government of the Generality, decides and fixes the non-funded expense floor. And, therefore, you now want to extend, taking the same strides of 2015. But tell the truth: you have good resources and can manage them as you wish, and therefore you fix the expense floor. You speak with propriety. And third, a question that you never have an answer and I think it would be good for us someday to give it to you: why are there communities that are even more financial than ours that do not suffer from the imbalance that we ourselves, and we, more than anyone else, pay more taxes than anyone else, to all of Spain? Someday you'd have to answer that answer, which I'm sure everyone would appreciate very much. By the way, the deficit target is not decided by the central government, it is decided by the Tax and Finance Policy Council, which all autonomous governments are part of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.148.0	Mr. Millo, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.149.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.150.0	Congresswoman Reguant wants the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.151.0	From here to answer, to answer something that has not been answered, because I have the feeling that the CUP - Creed We are the only ones to whom the Vice President has not referred, which I hope is not customary. We have expressed our willingness to facilitate this approval, but in no case do I mean any approval of assumptions or that we share the idea of..., or that we share the 2015 assumptions, which, as we said at the time, we did not vote and consider to be absolutely submissive to neoliberal policies of the governments of the past few years. And so we make it easier to do so because we are definitely beginning to apply the 9 November declaration in its full size, we are beginning to develop the three laws we need to do, we are beginning to address the debt debate in its full size, to change the social and material conditions of the Catalan people, which is why we are here and why we should all be here: working for the people and working for those people who are currently out of the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.152.0	Then there's the word Mr. Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.153.0	Yes, thank you, President. Very briefly, because we have little time. In many, cheats, you: verbal cheats..., say true myths, eh? A bit of parliamentary funambulism. And so, you could be a long time away trying to answer some of these traps. I'll just do it with one, I'll kill one. Listen, it's not certain that we're following the community with more disabilities; they're systemically oblivious, and obviously they're willing to go to Valencia. And second, when they speak of major disabilities, they never remember any sanitation, any pressure, or all the skills assumed by the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, the Generality of Catalonia, and not the other communities. Therefore, these traps, if they want to make these traps, either explain everything or, please, change arguments. I end up with two ideas. First, it is absolutely necessary to approve 2016 assumptions for obvious reasons, but above all because there is a social shock plan that has marked this government that needs the assumptions to be able to apply it. And I end up, especially addressing the UPC, but also at the group's side: open dialogue, more extensive dialogue, especially with those groups with whom we share objectives of greater social justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.154.0	The debate is over, and we shall now proceed to the vote. Call it a vote. [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Even though it didn't look like it, it feels like it, huh? [[Long break.]] Let us then proceed to the vote on the validation of Decree Law 4/2015. The vote's on. Mrs. Granados. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Granados, the sense of vote? [[Pause.]] The result of the vote is 64 in favour, 61 against and 4 abstentions. With the result, Decree Ill 4/2015 is validated. In accordance with Rule 155.4 of the Rules of Procedure, the law has once been validated, I ask the chamber whether any parliamentary group wants this law decree to be passed as draft law. [[Pause.]] As long as there is no petition, this decree will not be dealt with as the bill of law. [[Decree of 1/2016, of the 19th generation, of application of the increase in remuneration of one percent for the staff of the public sector of the Government of Catalonia for 2016]] [[203-00002/11]] Let's continue, then, with the next point of the order of the day. The fourth point of the order of the day is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree 1/2016, of the 19th generation, of the application of the increase in remuneration of one u percent for the staff of the public sector of the Government of Catalonia for 2016. In accordance with Rule 155.2 of the Rules, Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, hereby submits this Decree to the Law. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.155.0	Madam President, Mr President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies and Deputies, I present on behalf of the Government the Decree Law 1/2016, of 19 gener, of application of the increase in remuneration of one u percent for the staff of the public sector of the Government of Catalonia for 2016. As we have already stated in the previous decree, given the situation of presupposition for this exercise, and while this is being maintained, the Government will continue, give continuity to the measures established for the Law of Presuppositions of the Generality. In this way it is necessary to update the standard mark in salary to make viable the application of the increase in remuneration contained in the basic state regulations, with the aim that the public workers of the Administration of the Generalitat be satisfied with the increase in remuneration. In this sense, it is necessary to take into account the circumstances which make it essential to take extraordinary and urgent measures in accordance with this increment, so that it can be carried out in the whole sphere of the Generality from the 1st generation, and more taking into account the salary and other details that the public sector staff have suffered during these last years. For what it does to the content of the decree, there is a single article with two separates, two additional provisions and a final provision. The first apartment regulates the scope of application of the law decree. The second section regulates pay increments for staff in the General Administration Service not under the labour system and for the other categories of government and other direct staff to which an increase of '1_per_cent will apply in each of the pay concepts with effects of 1 of generation. Thus, it is established that the remunerations which have the character of absorbable, is to say, for example, the compensation for residence and the compensations for reasons of service, do not experience any increments respect to the fixed for 2015. The second subpart of this second part foresees that the increase in the salary mass of the Generality's workforce for the 2016 fiscal year cannot experience an increase of more than '1_per_cent respect the corresponding one for the 2015 fiscal year, in terms of homogeneity for the two periods of comparison, both for what it does to the staff and anti-guidance effect as to the working regime, day, extraordinary hours and other working conditions. The third subpart of this second section determines that the maximum imports of the variable productivity complement and variable earnings as a function of objectives, to which reference is made to Articles 25.3 and 29.1 of the 2015 Law of Presumptions, will increase by 1_percent in respect of the maximum imports recognised in the previous fiscal year. The first additional provision provides for an increase of the '1_percent of the imports of the economic modules of the private-concert educational centres corresponding to staff expenditure set out in Annex 1 of the Law of Presumptions of the Generality. The following additional provision establishes an increase of 0.25_percent of the amount of pensions in force at 31 December 2015, to which Article 30(1) and (3) of the 2015 Law of Presumption refer. This increase is in line with the increase established for the Law of General Presumptions of the State for 2016, which in its article 36 determines an index of pension revaluation of 0.25_per_cent. The economic impact of this global increase is 110,2_million euros, which while maintaining the presuppositional prolongation situation will assume each department at the expense of the appropriations entered in 2015. So, as we said at the beginning, this decision taken for the government will, despite the well-known limitations and to which we have made reference just a few seconds ago in the previous debate, allow the staff of the Catalan Public Administration not to lose power. This measure, together with the approval of the progressive return of the extraordinary payment, shows the Government's willingness to reverse the restrictive measures suffered for the public sector due to the global economic crisis and the funding of the Government of Catalonia. This government's willingness to return staff to the Generality's service the effort made in the past exercises, does not prevent that in the time to schedule these actions from the presuppositional point of view we still realize that, too, there are other very important needs to recover the level of public services and the benefits of the welfare state that, too, have been greatly affected by the economic crisis and the financial asphyxiation to which the Generality is submissive. As the rep is collectible, we hope that all folds will always be expected so we act with the right and necessary dose of ambition, responsibility and rigour, and that is why they demand their vote in favour of the validation of this decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.156.0	To fix his position, has the word Mr. Joan García, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.157.0	President, Vice President, President, Members, Deputies, appear today to the Government to ask for the validation of Decree 1/2016, of the 19th generation, which must allow our public workers to perceive a salary increase of 1_per_cent, which is consolidated to the name of the generation. Citizens will vote in favour. He will vote in favour of the validation of this decree by consistency, by responsibility and because, if we believe in the principle of equality between all the citizens of this country, Spain, it is clear that we must defend the principle of equity between all the public workers of all the Spanish administrations. This principle of backwardness, as everyone else knows in this Pleso, Article 24 of Law 30 of 1984, of August 2, which defines the principle of uniformity of economic rights, and it is on that principle that the basic remuneration of public employment to all Spain comes fixed for the Law of general assumptions, guaranteeing the homogeneity of rights between all Spanish public workers. The Law of general assumptions has determined for 2016 a maximum increase of 1_per_cent. The Generality, its Government, has decided to increase this maximum of 1 per cent to all its public employees. This is the reality that it seems that we will validate today, but as much as we validate this decree, what we can't do – and what we can't do – is validate or validate the reality, what the vice president has today, so he has explained here, his special perception of reality. Ours is a critical, very critical yes, and it's because they haven't been able to transmit, to prove that it measures the fan by convincingly. It's a critical yes because they don't really believe it like they do, because actually, for you, what they're carrying here is more of a expense problem than a reversal in the best of Catalonia's public services, which is what we really need to hear that this is. He says in the preamble to the decree that the Generality's expenditure is severely limited by the Government of the Spanish State, and that we find ourselves in a situation of exceptionality in economic matters, but that, as well, they will make the effort to increase their remuneration for this year. We are already beginning, therefore, arguing that everything and increase, if there is still any serious complaint, this explanation should not go to the Generalitat or to you, but we should go to the Government of Spain. Vells arguments without new assumption of responsibility. We saw behind the decree a confirmation of this new old government's will. It's confirming who the priorities are and where they want to work. And in this way, instead of dedicating them to making a flag of the real defense of the powers we have assigned and that we have to exercise as the Administration, we listen to them speak every day, today, of the supposed creation that they want to realize. Oblivion, then, the present to commit to a future, and end oblivion that the efforts of the Administration of all cannot be used for inviable objects. The details of these last years show that today's decree is nothing more than a small gesture in a sea of toilets against the public worker. Catalan public workers have been losing power over the last few years and, as well as reducing the number of staff involved, working, resource detailing, outsourcing and privatizing of services, these workers have managed to maintain the level of excellence of public services. And what's more important, they managed to win the battle of marginalization that the previous government wanted to wage. Because there is still more..., the parties that support the current government and support the former have used the workers of our Administration to finance themselves. They never wanted to listen to us when we warned them that there were public workers who were paying for good part of the generality's greas, of this greas that had been accumulating the last few years. Today we do not see any changes, and they continue to speak – today they have also done – of creating political structures, in a new demonstration more than this government is more than the same or more, instead of talking about taking on real receptions of oppression. You are talking about your fantastic plans for the future, about your optimistic visions of tomorrow, but you are not able to imagine the reality of your public workers with minimal illusion. We would like to see this illusion at the time of returning the labor, economic and social rights of public workers, or at the time of legitimately claiming before the Government of Spain that there has been a major increase in the general assumptions to regain the purchasing power of these workers and the purchasing power they have lost during all these years. In fact, we would have liked to have seen a willingness to agree to the Public Service Bureau these last few months. An attitude that we have already seen that I am fleeing from a reality that, for us, should be the epithet of the attention of this Parliament. But it is true: there is a new government; they have a great opportunity to show the positive energy they ask for at the next meetings we will have at the Public Service Bureau. There you will have to talk to the workers after the motion for a resolution adopted two weeks ago. Both we and the workers will know how to appreciate it. You, lords of the government, are towing from the initiatives of the government of Spain, from the initiatives of a government that did not go any further in sensitizing with the public servants than you, but that served them as an excuse before and now to practice what they really believe in. Let's not forget that it was the government of one of the parties that now continues to the government, Convergence and Union, which started the retailing in 2011, and showed the government of the People's Party the way forward. But it was another time, including the time of the assumptions approved jointly. Catalonia is losing, in the lack of defense of the welfare state, an opportunity. We know that Catalonia could lead the defense of an authentic sign of Spanish identity: the public services built during all these years of democracy. And it could be removed from the demagogic, defending the efficient model, with enough resources, solidarity, fairness, quality, strength, in many cases, of development, of research and innovation and impulse of the economy. We believe, therefore, that the Generality should precisely be more proactive, seeking synergies with the autonomous communities and with the Government of Spain, I do not feel it. During these years of crisis there was a lot of use of a concept, called resilience, and took place in many areas of society. I'd like to end up using one of these definitions of this concept: it's the one that says resilience is people's ability to overcome adverse situations. Lords of Heaven and Lords of the Republican Left, Lords of Junts for the Yes, have made our public workers experts in resilience; perhaps it is the only one who can please them. But we believe, in Citizens, that we need a point of inflection and, while we validate this decree, we know that nothing changes, that everything continues the same and that what we will never do is validate their particular vision of reality. Thank you, Members, Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.158.0	The words "Mrs. Rosa Maria Ibarra", of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.159.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice-President, Members and Deputies, bring us to ratification of Decree 1/2016, of 19 of gener, of application of the increase in remuneration of 1_percent for the staff of the public sector of the Government of Catalonia for 2016, in application of Law 48/2015, of 29 of October, of general assumptions of the State for 2016, which establishes for this year and enables, with basic character for all administrations, an increase in the remuneration of the staff until the maximum of 1_percent respects the previous exercise. This means that all administrations have an obligation to make this 1_per_cent increase in 2016 assumptions. Therefore, in the case of the Government of Catalonia, there has been no voluntary decision of the new Government, but a legal obligation to apply to its workers and workers from this law of assumptions; an obligation which they have applied strictly and directly, and, moreover, in a calculated way, since the decree that they bring us today to ratification was approved for their Government the day before the plenary passed, is to say of the 20th generation, in a plethora in which the return, precisely, of the extra payment of 2012 to the workers of the Generality. We understand that this coincidence is not random and that it was looking for an effect that this government already took on enough with this 1_per_cent increase to, above all, have to assume the return of the extra pay as well. Finally, they took over, at the last minute, and saved by the bell. Therefore, they have applied strictly, directly, calculated and, moreover, poorly planned, this decree. And let's have a bad plan because we know that in some public enterprises until two days ago they had no news of this decree, and therefore they could not have made the presupposition forecast to be able to cope with the expense it entails. Therefore, we see once again his lack of sensitivity towards the workers and workers of the public office. We see this because you are carrying out a minimum policy on what refers to labour rights, applying to what you have imposed on the Law of State General Presumables and losing the opportunity not only to apply fairer and greater increments, but also, to all intents and purposes, that these increments may be limited by the general standards of the State, to what you like so much to say, that it is Madrid's fault, but we say that they lose the opportunity to recover other labour rights, such as the days of leave. But neither can we forget the People's Party's performance to the State Government, which if it approved this increment of '1_per_cent was because 2015 precisely had the general elections to play. Therefore, we see no predisposition either from the Government of Madrid, the People's Party, nor from the Generality to return to the workers and workers of the public office who correspond to them, but rather a political party tacticism, on the one hand, and the strict compliment of legality, on the other. We need to remember that public servants and workers wear five years with a frozen soul; therefore, it is the first time that in these five years they see a small increase in their name. Still, it's important to stress three points. First. It is not an increase; after five years of freezing of the sun it decides this small increase that does not compensate in any way for the loss of purchasing power that has suffered in the last years, especially the workers and workers of the Generalitat of Catalonia, who have had to add to the retail of the State all over the function those that have suffered for the Government of the Generalitat; for example, the extra payment of 2013 and 2014. We must bear in mind that the loss of power acquired for these five years of freezing turned 30_per_cent, and that it is obvious that this 1_per_cent does not compensate in any way for this loss. Second of all, it's a partial reinstatement. It is partial because it is not a return of the total wage loss they have suffered in the past few years. That's why we don't say it's an increase, but we're returning part of the debt that the administrations have with the workers and workers already from the State or the Generality. To the anecdotal title, tell them that this 1_per_cent represents an increase of about five to a monthly average of seven euros per worker/worker. The script gives us a glimpse of what it can mean for each of these people this increase. And, as I said, it's obvious that it doesn't compensate for the loss of purchasing power of these five years. And in third place, it's uninteresting. Despite this partial reintegration that is due to the pending, it is not calculated the interests that this pending member should have deserved during all this time. And, therefore, it would be a good thing for his government to recognize the debt and this one is reinstated with interest. Look, the staff of the Generality has been one of the most punished collectivities and to which more efforts have been made through the detail they have suffered since 2012, both on the part of the State and on the part of the Generality. We hope that the increase of this 1_per_cent will be the first step to recover the loss they have had during the last five years. In the same way that we hope that the motion for a resolution adopted in the Ple past, the one of the 20 generation to which I referred before, is complex and it has begun to recuperate justice, so as to recognize the outstanding debt. And that's what we're telling them because some news has appeared that members of your party or members of the government have stated that it was a mistake to vote in favour, precisely, of the motion for a resolution that we referred to before, that of the past plenary. Let us hope that this information is left in mere speculation and that, in reality, this resolution is completed. Finally, we have to say that it is a lot of magic with the details to the workers and workers of public office. We watched, perplexed, as in the past Ple the CUP said that before fighting to improve the conditions of the civil servants would increase the PIRMI or other social aid. Look, we're totally in agreement, it couldn't be any other way, to improve the social assistance to those who live in a more vulnerable situation, to those who live in a poor situation, obviously. And they know that we have repeatedly called for the celebration of a ple of poor women in this chamber, a ple in which concrete steps can be taken to improve the situation of so many people and that Juntes for the Yes and the UPC, all said in the past, have been holding back as much as possible. But in no case can the willingness to improve the lives of people in the worst situation, in no case can it be countered to not reintegrate into the workers and workers of public office the outstanding debts that the Generality has with them. The meths and meths, the members of the Bomber Cos, the police, the masters, the officers of the Administration in general, rise up every morning, do their work, complete their pocket properly and have the right to charge for the work they develop. To say another thing is to make cheap demagogic and stand at the side of the neoliberal right. Vice-President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, as we have said, the workers and workers of the public office of Catalonia, it is called for an effort superior to other collections over the last few years. Let's hope this is the first step to reverse this situation. And with this confidence our group will vote in favour of ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.160.0	Next, there's the word "Mr. Marc Vidal," from Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.161.0	Thank you, President. Very honourable President, Vice President, Councillors, Members, Members, have a very good day, or a good afternoon. Well, this point, it has been said, has to be used to ratify the first decree approved for the Government in function this month of generation, which relates to the increment of the '1_percent of all the concepts retributive to the public sector of the Government of Catalonia and the increment... It was not in function, it was already Government; the first, I publicly correct: it was the first decree approved for this Government. And also the increase in the additional provision of 0.25 of his pensions. It is an essentially technical law decree, because, in not having assumptions, nor so alone, for which it seems, immediate prospects to hold them, and, in change, it does have a law of assumptions of the State from the month of August, if I am not mistaken, which includes these increments in all the areas indicated, the only way to be able to comply with them is to make a specific law decree that contemplates them. You've already said that, haven't you? That is to say, in the background it is a consequence, let me 'hodir so, of its palau games, which led us to have paralyzed almost four months the legislative task of this Parliament and of the control of the Government. That is to say, while you are inflamed rhetoric and the problems of the young people are growing... or, in other words, if we had gone to work, surely today we would not have been able to ratify this decree because it would already be included in some assumptions, right? I guess so, huh? But, well, things are almost always as they are and not as we would like them to be, and therefore no problem. To say, from the start, that we will vote in favour. We will vote in favour because we cannot leave this increase without it, even though it is still very small, even though it is run out, run out, run out, run out, neither the workers nor the workers in the public sector who are dependent on the Generality, nor their public pensions. But I also say from the outset that we ask, Madam President, that it is passed on as a bill of law because we think it would be worth it to be able to include some reservations and some better ones. And I'm trying to explain why. I look, curiously, as I said, this is the first decree of the year – 1, 1/2016 – and it is the first decree of non-disobedience and non-disconnection that will approve this Parliament. Say it like that. That's to say, it's the first decree that explains that, despite all the siren songs, when it comes to money, we don't play with words and we recognize what is obvious: it's that we follow under the guidelines of the Spanish Government. Because, of course, you agreed to disobey a lot of things a couple of months ago, didn't you? Already you were able to disobey, so you could have decided to push the pensions in agreement with the IPC, as it was before the friends of the People's Party broke the pacts of Toledo with their pension reform, or you could have decided that they would increase the salary of public office by a 4, a 5 or a 6_percent, well, you would have been able to..., or a 10, or a 65 – yes? – to begin to recover a little lost purchasing power. We're talking about disobedience, aren't we? Fixed'sFixial power acquisition is lost, since 2010, between 23 and 44_per_cent in the public sector, depending on the seniority of the functionaries. Naturally, it is obvious that you have come to the right and decided to obey the Spanish State's Law of Presumables, which is the basic rule and which obliges you to increase the '1_percent of the basic salaries of all employees and employees, and to this 0.25 of their pensions. So I told them the other day that I was ill thought out, huh? – we'll never know if this obedience to the Spanish rule is done because they still don't get to start squeezing or, quite simply, they are grateful because the migration of the increments of our functioning has already been good for them, because this serves magnificently as an element of social regulation. They won't know; they won't be able to prove it. We hope that the day when they begin to dare to disobey the outflows of the 3_per_cent hidden experience of the 3_per_cent Business Convergence and do not start to deregulate as they have done other times some basic elements of the protection system that we have established. Let's just hope that when I start disobeying, I don't exactly start around here. And I'm saying that because you know you have competence in the specific complement of functioning. Therefore, even without jumping from the whole law, they could have negotiated with the trade union representatives and decided a higher increment, in this complement. I might have decided not to pay for it, with some occelle I had suggested that they had initially thought of doing it. In the end, no, huh? They've put in a sign and done the same thing they'll do the rest of the state. You know that all governments – all – have historically used the salaries of employees and employees to square accounts. It's the easiest way – it's the easiest way. And, if we went through it historically, the Gonzalez, the Aznar, the Zapatero and the Rajoy have either frozen wages or spread them directly. And all the Catalan governments – and say all, eh? , so as not to distinguish anyone – they have ended up complying with the basic standard. You also know, surely, that it is not just this, that of quadrupling the accounts, the object that it is, nor is it just this use that is made of the salaries of the hundreds of thousands of workers and workers who depend on the assumptions, but that also historically the wage pressure at the lower end of the civil service has had an allicating effect or a mimetic effect on the pressure at the lower end of the negotiation of the agreed collections of the different sectors of production. That's what happened historically. And we are precisely at a time when all the economists who are appointed, who still have a few, recognize that on the issue of wages we have passed from braking. Especially, above all, because of the effects, you know, of the evil labor reform, which is going..., your other ego in the Congress, let's say, of the Congress of Deputies, voted for it, say the other ego because I never know where to finish them today, right? – and that served, basically, to make an internal devaluation of the country, lowering wages. And these... (sounding voices) say the other ego, yes, yes..., that's a different thing, so, the other ego, exact, yes. Clearly, these economists are recommending that we push wages up to boost the economy and generate employment – I suppose we'd agree. Therefore, this is an object that this Government, I suppose, is going to raise or, as a minimum, I think it should raise seriously. And here– and excuse all this rhetoric– is where the demand I've made for processing as the bill comes in. It is to say, if it is certain that the wage increase of the employees serves as a multiplier effect for the wage tables of the agreed differences, if it is certain that this is an essential element to start thinking about recovering the economy as an element that generates occupation, then we take advantage to establish, despite the 1_per_cent, the willingness to recover the lost purchasing power of our public sector approving the negotiation establishment of a time-frame that recognizes it. In the background, it would be nothing more than concrete, in the form of an articulation in law, the agreement that we have reached in the past plenary respects wage increases and a certain timetable for the entire public sector, but also because it can serve as a cry for the principle of wage recovery in all sectors. As we said, you have had to publish this decree, because we have extended assumptions, and therefore need to give law form to this variation if we want to adjust to the Law of State assumptions, and because if we had any assumptions, that would already be included. So, well, I think they would have me..., they would have to think or they would have to answer two questions: one, do we have any security that we would have previously assumed? Of course, I'm saying that because before there was a discussion that... we don't know. Two: Do you have the will to work to recover, in general, the lost acquired power? You've seen the discussions before about when we have the assumptions and how long this extension will last, we might find that it lasts longer than all the pleas we'd want. And this is where we ask that we have to put the good in case it's hurt. We do not put the good before the wound, but we keep it in case it has been hurt, that we give rank of articulation to a law with the will to recover a part of the lost wage at the last years, for if it is too much a law of Catalan assumptions that I can explicitly include it; but also, to give this message that I have already said, clearly, to the workers and workers of the country, that you are actually prepared to legislate in favour of this salary recovery. Therefore, in the background, what we claim from Catalonia Yes, it is possible, with this request, is to do them a favor: it is to give them to you the opportunity to prove that, as we have an Economy Councillor and vice-president of a party that bears the name of Esquerra and a councillor, that now it is not Treball, that it is also, moreover, a trade unionist, we have a government that will not carry it only in the name of the origin of some councillors, but will work for the vast majority of the population, that demands work and better wages, and not for the very time that they have brought many benefits in these years of accumulated crisis. Finally, Mr President, Mr Vice-President, let us leave it to your own hands. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.162.0	Next, there is the word María José García Cuevas, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.163.0	Thank you, President. I welcome the union representatives who accompany us. Honourable councillors, ladies and gentlemen, we propose the Government of the Generalitat that we decide on the validation or repeal of Decree Law 1/2016 of 19 January, implementing a 1_per_cent pay increase for the public sector staff of the Generalitat of Catalonia for 2016. Decree-Law which, of course, we will validate from the People's Group, so with this we only support the measures that the Spanish Government of the People's Party has put in place to start returning to the Spaniards at least part of the effort that we have collectively undertaken to face and overcome the economic crisis that has suffocated us all these years. We have all suffered and lost with the crisis, also public employees who, despite having guaranteed their jobs, have seen their wages and benefits cut. It should be remembered that in 2010 Zapatero dropped a 5-per-cent salary to staff members. In the following years, the People's Party did not lower public wages but frozen them. Moreover, on an extraordinary and reversible basis, and this is important, he retained an extra pay in 2012. We have already dealt with this issue two weeks ago at the previous plenary session, and we have already commented on how the Government of the Generalitat applied to its officials the state cuts and much more: it applied another 5_per_cent salary reduction in 2012 and cut two more salaries, that of 13 and 14. That is to say, the Generalitat penalized its officials extraordinarily, defending itself in an insufficient budget but which does not seem so scarce as to maintain, as we said at the last plenary session, the heaviest, most expensive and most inefficient public sector in all of Spain: four hundred public entities paid with our taxes. Some, inefficient; others, oversized in staff and salaries; others, without skills; others, duplicated. Most, unnecessary, and more in times of need and economic and social urgency. A waste of public money that the Union of Accounts itself denounces in its reports and that is masked in everything that this public sector costs us: 8,000_million_de_euros per year. And see if public resources could be released if cut here. Look, to check the poor, untransparent and dubious management of all these entities, there is nothing but to review the index of the reports of the Union of Accounts, which know that it is the oversight body of the public sector in Catalonia, and to look at any of the reports on any foundation, consortium, company or entity governed by public law that appears in the index of the Union. On the Parliament's own website they have the index of the reports and can consult them. The attitude of the Generalitat towards its officials during the worst years of the crisis has therefore not been particularly affluent, nor is the Generalitat prioritizing its own staff now, which seems to have passed the worst. We have already found in the last plenary that only by maintaining a firm attitude, by maintaining the union without cracks of the trade unions and of all the parliamentary opposition, from the People's Party to the UPC, we managed to take away from the government a medium-acceptable commitment so that it would not do anything other than what it had to do, that is to comply with the state decrees and return the officials 50_per_cent of the 2012 pay, in addition to repealing the unjust and torticier Government Agreement 33/15, which recovered the 5_per_cent cut and which you already know, as I explained in the last plenary, that it is annulled by a Catalan court that describes it as a law fraud. The fact is that the Government of the Generalitat has no other option in this area than to apply the State decrees as a basic law that obliges it to do so on a binding basis. Decrees and basic regulations that the Generalitat applies with scrupulous diligence when they have allowed it to cut and, moreover, to blame Madrid, but which are not so much to its liking when to what they oblige it is to return salaries and benefits. There is nothing more to see than the laziness and slowness shown to us by the Generalitat in the implementation of the 2012 pay-back decrees. At the moment we have 50_percent of the pay more or less guaranteed; now, of the remaining 50_percent and the 13 and 14 pay, nothing at all. In fact, it is not necessary to be very bold to guess that if the State had not incorporated the 1_per_cent increase in its Budget Act for 2016, an organic and binding law for the Generalitat, today we would not be debating and voting on this decree law. Because the government of Artur Mas had already extended the 2015 budgets and had not reversed one of the cuts. The truth, what we would like, is for this Government of the Generalitat to learn and apply that the State has already terminated the adjustment that Spanish officials have undergone since 2010, including Catalans. Last July, Minister Montoro already informed the unions that, by the end of 2015, officials would charge the second 25_per_cent of the 2012 pay and that, in 2016, they would charge the remaining 50_per_cent, that the rate of replacement of essential services would rise to 100_per_cent, and in the rest of services to 50_per_cent. And that the wages were thawed and went up to 1_per_cent. Unfortunately, in Catalonia, we suffered a double aggravation on the part of the Generalitat in relation to officials from other communities. On the one hand, our autonomous Government has delayed and impeded as far as possible any wage recovery. And, on the other hand, what from the state arose as an exceptional and reversible withholding of a pay and a year, the Generalitat applied it as a cut of a pay for three years. The conclusion is that we cannot expect the Generalitat to return nothing more to the officials, neither 50_per_cent of the pay of the 12, nor the pay of the 13th and the 14th, if the political and trade union pressure does not act, and on our part count on it. In short, and for the stated reasons of implementation and compliance with the basic rules, normal in any democratic country, also for the defence of justice, the stability of good governance and common sense, we will support this decree. But we validate it for its purpose and content and not for its form, which we absolutely reject. And it is that, look, the laws are drafted with a vocation of universality. And when a government drafts and drafts a law, what it is doing is a function that is directed at the entire population. Therefore, despite the fact that it is developed under political premises, the law must preserve party impartiality, it must be drafted with the pretence of a common good, of general interest. A law should not contain in its preamble partisan views that are logically not shared by the entire population. Including political opinions or assessments in a law is an illegitimate interference that good governance should not allow. It is an improper behavior, it is an abuse of the legislative work attributed to the Generalitat. It is an action that degrades the legislative prestige of the Generalitat, and this is something that harms us all. In the specific case of the political views that are incorporated in this preamble, it is particularly serious because the discord, the rift and the culture of confrontation are being fostered. And this has been the political strategy of the Generalitat, but it is not shared, it is neither positive nor conducive to agreement. The strategy of confrontation and rupture, which the Generalitat has launched, has already sown discord and division among Catalans, among Spaniards, in families, with friends. We believe that this is a perverse and negative dynamic that has only provided chryspation and has not solved one of the problems that Catalans have. We therefore find it painful and unacceptable that the crisis strategy should also permeate our autonomous legislation by degrading the, as I have told you, introducing a political debate in an area in which we cannot defend ourselves. It is an authoritarian and negative imposition, it is an improper abuse of a government that must act in good faith, with institutional loyalty. And it is a lack of respect for the millions of Catalans that we think that if we have come this far it has not been for any perverse and malicious plot of the State, but for the poor management of public resources, waste, duplication, clientelism, the exercise of improper competences and the financial incompetence of the last governments of the Generalitat. And all this combined with an insufficient funding model approved by Zapatero and blessed by Mas and Montilla. Because it must be recognized that other poorly financed communities, such as Madrid or the Balearic Islands, do not by far have the financial problems we have. Something will have to see the autonomous government here. This preamble, therefore, is disregarded and disrespectful with this part of Catalan society, which is only because of the agreement and impartiality of laws and institutions. It is also disloyal and disrespectful to the Government of the State and also to the rest of the Spanish, and for these reasons we believe that some paragraphs should not have been incorporated into this decree law, in the preamble. We ask the Generalitat to act further with greater caution, respect and institutional loyalty, because we believe that this is the only way to guarantee a space of coexistence where we can all and where we can all feel respected and considered. Thank you very much, President, Councillors, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.164.0	Next, the words of Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.165.0	President, Members, the Government, well, first of all, to express my surprise at the variable position that some parliamentary groups have before the exception of not having some assumptions or prorogations, whether it is one case or another; it is curious, but well, that's the point and that's what we have to accept, isn't it? The other is to say: the decree we are dealing with today, obviously, as has been said, refers to the application of the '1_per_cent pay increment for public sector staff, that is to say, a '1_per_cent boost to the workers and workers of public services, which is actually already applied to the '1' generation, and as a result of approval, which has also been said, of the general assumptions of the State; not because of the State, but because there are assumptions approved to correct and in electoral terms at the time. As we read in the preamble, the possibility of absorbing with credits presuppositions entered for 2015 by extension for 2016 the expense represented by this increase in remuneration makes it possible, therefore, that today we can implement or can implement this measure, given the situation of presuppositional prosupposition that affects the Generality. In fact, therefore, we are validating or 'asking us to validate a decree that has effects from the 1st generation and that will affect more then, including, the financial year 2016; an important fact, however surely..., or the same effect that the motion for a resolution on the recovery of extraordinary payment that we discussed in the plenary, in the final plenary and that, in some way, together with this approval of today, in some way, even though it is still with a very minimum measure, is a reversal of the details that the workers and workers of the public administration have suffered. Despite everything, we say it then, and we want to say it now, and we will say it every time you need it, and it doesn't mean that we are being demagic about it, that we can't do a political and partisan use of key subjects that deserve a national approach, but we don't want to stop dealing with any important areas of our population outside the global mark where the working class assembly is – we'll say it every time we do – because we have to go a lot with this, because there are people watching it, all that. And the mark in which the working class of the country is united is a mark, as you all know, of precariousness, of reductions in general wages, of ERO plagues, that have shaken the world of small business; of labor reforms that have liquidated basic rights, and that have brought the same labor contract to precariousness. And yet the vast majority of workers have supported it outside the institution, outside the regulation of assumptions, and many, many, many, many, even out of the interest of political and trade union organizations. And they've put up with it and they're putting up with it in the dark. And outside the institutions, honourable Members and Members, outside the regulations and outside the complicitys of political and trade union organizations, it's cold, very cold. And that's not demagogic. And we can't be accused, as it has now been accused here, of demagics, because we haven't been responsible, huh? , to delay the plenary of the poor or to place it on the calendar of electoral interests of certain parliamentary groups. We shall therefore vote in favour of the decree, in favour of this increase, small, because it seems to us that we are voting in favour of the public sector in some way; a sector, which we want, a public sector, which we want to be able, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the one hand, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the one hand, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other hand, on the other, on the other hand, on the other, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other, on the other hand, on the other, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other. And we will make our own and we will put it in any negotiating table, whenever we can and no one else, not only regain the purchasing power of the public administration workers, but the need to fix a top of maximums and other minimums in wages or pay that the Administration manages with the objective that the disproportion exists between the highest and lowest levels is drastically reduced to achieve a fair wage distribution. The debate, therefore, today, also offers and indicates things to us. And they said it here. And some parliamentary groups have even complained that some of these things are timidly in the preamble of the decree. First of all, it indicates to us the degree of political migration that we have and that poses a permanent question the legislative capacity of this Parliament and the political action of the Government of the Generality. We do not know how to stop saying it and saying it publicly every time you convince us: the ability we had was little and hardly conditioned; the one we have today is null and void, intervened and under which the State constantly dictates to us that it should be done and under extended assumptions. So, Gov., you have two ways to work and two realities of what we think we need to unravel ourselves if we don't want to live extended in time and, therefore, submit not only in political secrecy, but migrate in economic exclusion. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.166.0	The words "Mr. Lluís Guinó", of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí, follow.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.167.0	Thank you, President. Honourable President, Vice-President, Councillors, Members and Members, my speech will focus on three main points. One, that has a clearly objective fall and that responds to the need to give compliment according to the general assumptions of the State. Therefore, those parliamentary groups that explain, usually justify the need to complete the strict legality will be satisfied; we complement with a prerogative that hold the general assumptions of the State from a perspective of approval of the entire public function. And, therefore, we would complement this proposal for an increase which was simply to say that the increase was calculated as a maximum of 1_per_cent for the public sector. Therefore, from this perspective I am fulfilling, I insist. Deputy Vidal spoke of disobedience; I discovered a great disobedience today with his intervention. You will surely have time to demonstrate this disobedience at other times of this legislature. But in any case, what we're doing today, I insist, is that what we're interested in is that you're going to be able to get this pay from the 1st generation, is to complete it not just with a technical explanation of this decree... You said, "It's a technical decree. So, we think that, beyond the technique – that I will refer above all to the questions of formal fall that make it possible to bring to the end this decree –, the conditions that justify it, the urgent character and the extraordinary character, it is true that there is a political will behind this increase, that we really believe that you will need, in the first place, to enter into a dynamic of reversibility that we have been compromised by what you do to pay for; secondly, from the month of generation of the guild, to be able to collect this increase of the 1_per_cent, and, in any case, to firmly believe that this is a country that needs a motivated operation and an effective public administration. And part of the efficiency, necessarily, beyond training, is having fair pay and correct pay levels. Refers to what is necessary because a decree law can be precisely applied and why the Government can do so and can do so with all the consequences, and it is that a set of circumstances, urgent and extraordinary, that are given in this case, are given, so that the legal reports that in some way believe that this decree law can be approved for the Government and that can be validated for the Parliament, therefore, are brought to an end. Therefore, from this perspective, there is a strict compliment of what are basically the parameters of the need to apply this increment from a law decree, among other things because we are in the presuppositional prorogation. I have a doubt, and it's if the parliamentary groups that voted against the presuppositional prorogation in the past... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, Mr. Ordeig, that's right. I don't know how contradictory this is to vote in favour of precisely this decree, among other things, because this decree doesn't apply to you and derives from the presuppositional prorogation. There is a mechanism of contradiction that makes me the effect that I had to put on the table and that must be made clear because we are in his parliamentary office and that is precisely where these questions need to be made clear. Beyond this contradiction, what is certain is that in the interventions, for example, of the Socialist Party, if one had listened to his intervention, he would have ended up assuming that they were voting against the decree. But this happens in politics: open-ended criticism and a certain policy and, in change, how you know you can't explain to the function that you haven't approved an increment of '1_per_cent, you end up voting in favour. So what I ask from this perspective is also a certain coherence, that if one is critical, that criticism is legitimate, man, then that makes the determination legitimately that they correspond, but that the speech does not follow, from this point of view, contradictory, also. I've insisted before... Mr. Vidal has made a well-founded speech that this disobedient government did not carry out, precisely, for the first time, a formal disobedience before the State. The priority is that you could, I insist, recover part of the extraordinary payments, and I insisted on the concept and we insisted a lot on the previous legislature in which it was a reversible concept, that we are absolutely in agreement with everyone, it seems to me, and, if not, we will see it in the elaboration and processing of the assumptions, and, for another band, we also understand that this increment was to be made from the 1st generation. And there is no technical alternative – and that is why I am talking about 'technical' legislation that will not continue to pass this decree and, moreover, do so with a certain speed. Therefore, his proposal to put to the vote whether it is to be treated as a draft law or not as a draft law, we understand that, for immediate reason, necessity and urgency, it is understood that the votes in favour of this validation, from our perspective, perfectly legitimize the application of this decree to the law. In later term, and for what it does to the intervention of Ciutadans, the criticisms can always be made in politics; in fact, there are parliamentary groups that are specialists in this question. But in any case, it does to me the effect that it is perfectly possible for you to approve, I insist, this increment of '1_per_cent and that it is also, in some way, or to follow the lines between all, within the parliamentary sphere, to arrive at an agreement of which the wage and remuneration increments of the officials must be, but in two questions or in a context of political realism, which consists basically also, as the preamble says, that the State, from an economic point of view, does not complete with Catalonia. And that does it from different perspectives, but in the previous legislature in a special and strong way: 57 million euros in questions that they have to see with teaching, with funding from the children's lars from zero to three. These 57_million euros come from the state and have stopped coming. Therefore, this is very directly affecting the assumptions and above all the parties of the Government of the Generality, because, as Vice President Junqueras said, the assumption of the Generality is a final 88_per_cent. Certainly, this Parliament and the Group of the European People's Party sincerely aspire to be able to decide, even quantitatively, but also in a more qualitative way, the assumptions of the Government of the Generality and the assumptions of our country. Therefore, from this perspective, we also invite them to make an effort to go beyond a clearly finalistic premise and to allow us, because, in fact, we know the needs of the country, which precisely allows us to distribute in the way that Parliament and the Government decide how these resources are to go through the territory. At the end, please them the good predisposition to the approval of this decree. We will already have an opportunity to discuss each other emotionally, as Vice President Junqueras says, in a correct way, more than that, and I hope so, in the presuppositional sphere. And I assure you that if there were no assumptions, it was basically because there were elections and because, as it is happening in the Spanish State, we needed time to make a government. Therefore, from this perspective, it is obvious that we can safely apply analytic criteria of understanding, at least, from a political point of view. The positioning of Junts per el Si will be favourable to the validation of this decree. And in any case, in the assumption that the need for a vote for the handling of the bill is a formula, we will vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.168.0	After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. Call it a vote. [[Pause. María José García Cuevas asks to speak.]] My honourable Member, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.169.0	Thank you, for contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.170.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.171.0	Thank you, President. It has been said here that it was an inconsistency to vote for and vote in favour of the previous decree, because one came from the other. It must be said that this is absolutely false because the previous decree was budgetary extension, with which, in our case, we disagree, and this decree law is born – it has nothing to do with the previous one – as direct application, and with all the institutional loyalty that is expected of a democratic government, of the basic regulations, of the organic law that represents the Law on General Budgets of the State for 2016, approved by the Government of the People's Party. Thank you, President. [[Marc Vidal and Pou ask to speak]] - No, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.172.0	Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.173.0	Yes, by allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.174.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.175.0	He said twice, Vidal, don't I know if he'll touch me for a minute? [[Rialles.]] Don't you? No, well, it was Mr. Guino's... he also spoke of inconsistency respecting the previous vote and this... no, look if it's consistent, that precisely the demand that we are making to process it as the bill related to the previous vote. We..., our previous vote was: "Do we guarantee that the extension is only technical? There was no guarantee. And here's what we're saying: As we don't have this guarantee, we're going through a bill, which I'm going to make sure that this salary increase we've been talking about is in this article of the law. So it's perfectly coherent. I'm glad you didn't tell me I'm upset, 'cause you see I tried to smile as much as I could today, huh? [[Rialles.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.176.0	After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. As long as there have been three Members who have had problems with the vote, I think that now, this time, it will serve us to see if it works or doesn't work. I guess I was the MP, the Angels Martinez, yeah, huh? Now let's go, we'll vote and we'll vote for each other whether it works or not, huh? The vote begins. [[Pause.]] There are 132 votes in favour, no abstentions and no votes against. See 131 because Mrs. Granados has a delegated vote. [[Pause. Widow's remorse.]] We'll make the statement. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, we said the statement, we made the statement... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, sorry, was there anyone who didn't work the vote? [[Pause.]] So we'll take a look, huh? We'll take a look, all right. In accordance with Rule 155.4 of the Rules, the decree has once been validated, I ask the chamber whether any parliamentary group wants it to be through this decree as the draft law? [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Okay. So, after the petitions have been formulated, we shall proceed to the vote on this decree, whether it is to be dealt with as the bill of law or not. [[Pause.]] The vote begins. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Granados, the sense of vote? [[Pause.]] Yeah? Okay. So the result is 53 in favour, yes; 60 nos, and 20 abstentions. With the result of the vote, and in accordance with Rule 155.4 of the Rules, the law decree has been validated and will not be dealt with as draft law. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on support for refugees' rights]] [[401-00003/11]] Next, we will now read a statement by the Parliament of Catalonia, supporting the rights of refugees. I pray the secretary, Mr. Nuet, that you read the statement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.177.0	Thank you, President. « Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia to support the rights of refugees. The Parliament of Catalonia, which is committed to the universal values of democracy, justice and freedom, denounces the human drama that lives thousands of people, especially children, who flee from the countries of origin in a situation of conflict, in search of a life and a future better. Parliament is outraged and outraged at the disappearance of more than two thousand refugee children denounced by Interpol and considers that coordinated action by the states is necessary to find them and return them to their peers or guardians. Finally, the Parliament wishes to solemnly reveal its rebuff of the practical confiscators of the private wealth of citizens arriving in Europe in search of refuge and survival, and also the rebuff of the intimidating dispositions that take them. Palau del Parlament, February 3, 2016.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.178.0	Thank you. [[Procedure for electing five members of the Council Counsellor of the Synod of Greuges for the Prevention of Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment]] [[284-00010/10]] The fifth item on the agenda is the procedure for electing five members of the Council Counsellor of the Greuges Syndic for the Prevention of Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. We proceed, therefore, to the designation. In accordance with Article 77 of Law 24/2009 of 23 December 2009 of the Synod of Greuges, five applications have been submitted to cover the five vacancies. I ask the third secretary, Mr. Nuet, to read the candidatures.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.179.0	Thank you, President. We read the proposal of candidates: « Mr. Ignasi Puig Ventalló, at the proposal of the Council of the Illustres Collèges d'Avocats de Catalunya ; Mrs. Núria Cuxart and Ainaud, at the proposal of the Council of Col·legis d'Infermers i Infermers de Catalunya ; Ms. Rosa Maria Servant Pedescoll, at the proposal of the Official College of Metges de Barcelona ; Ms. Noemí Pereda Beltrán, at the proposal of the Research Group in Child and Adolescent Victimization of the Faculty of Psychology of the University of Barcelona, and Mr. David Bondia García, of the Institute of Human Rights of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.180.0	As the number of applications submitted is equal to the number of places to be provided, in accordance with Rule 99.3 of the Rules, can this delegation be approved by consent? [[Pause.]] They are designated, therefore, the persons previously cited. [[Committing Words with Oriol Amorós and March]] And before suspending the session, I donate the word to Congressman Oriol Amorós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.181.0	Thank you, President. I will not entertain them for some time, I understand they want to dinar, but today is my last day in this Parliament, at least in this legislature, and it seems to me that for some time, and I wanted to take advantage of the opportunity given to me by the President to thank you, all of you, for the work we have been able to do together, especially in previous legislatures – this has begun to walk a little later – and to thank you, above all, for the amount of cooperation we have had, many times with discrepancies, with strong discrepancies, but always – with much respect. I'm going to the side door, to work with the Bassa Councillor's team, who has done me the honor of working with fears like we just talked about in the statement, and so from the end, I'm waiting for your control and I'm waiting for your impulse. And, therefore, we will continue to work folded and continue to work collaboratively. I want to thank my party and the citizen, too, who have collected it, and Juntes' candidacy for the Yes, for having had the honor of serving in this Parliament and also for being able to follow it now from the government. And I take this opportunity to say, quite briefly, but to announce, because I think it has to be done, which is my idea of politics, which I defend from this Parliament and which we will always defend. We want a policy that sets out horizons, that discusses them, that dialogues them, that discusses them, that questions, whatever it is, but that has horizons and that explains them. Politics without horizons can derive in pure cynicism. My state, that of freedom, that of republican freedom, the freedom of people. That no one is as weak as because someone can make him anoint, that no one is as strong as because he can make anyone anoint; this has been my horizon. Also that of freedom as because of Catalonia, with the maximum of President Companies: "Where it is that it is fought for freedom, there will be Catalonia. Second, a coherent policy with these convictions and, therefore, consistent with the principles that defense and announces, but judged by its actions. Convictions without acts is pure aesthetics, acts without convictions is pure cynicism. Therefore, this dialogue between convictions and the ethics of responsibility, which gave the classic, and for which to be judged, which is for the consequences of our actions and for whether we have done anything to transform and improve our society or not..., is what really judges us. And a third ingredient – and I finish –, a policy of prop. The policies we are not ourselves, the policies we are all citizens, the policy you have felt is what the citizens do, the idea of citizenship that has democratic fullness is that of equal people in right and right and compromise with society to which they belong. And, therefore, also denounce, taking advantage of this occasion, that there are a million Catalans who do not exercise political rights and also, as you know, I will go to work in this area. Therefore, many thanks to everyone, we will defend this idea of politics, but always with a lot of respect to everyone, from the discrepancy and from the concord. To his service. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.182.0	Suspect the session and resume the session at four o'clock, please be on time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.183.0	It's part of the session. The sixth item on the agenda is the question to the Government on health policy presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Health policy inquiry 300-00001/11]] It has the word the lady Assumpta Escarp. Take Escarp Gibert Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, it's the first time..., go, I'm opening myself up in this faristol and I'm doing it with one of the aspects that we consider priorities from the Socialist Group; it's the right to salvation. We are talking about a basic element of equal rights of the citizenry, of a public service and that represents 40_percent of the generality's assumption. Honourable Counselor, our group, from these thirty-seven days of grace, will want to know its priorities and its understanding around health policies; we will be able to know it a few days from now. We'll have to talk about more immediate issues, we'll have to talk about the delay in interventions at the Clinical Hospital, the health transport, the pre-registration of the nurse, the times of the CAP, the loss of expertise and the waiting lists. But we also need to talk about the future of the system's sustainability and the consensus of a new law. Whether we have time or not to tackle it all, it will determine the duration of this legislature and its priorities. I don't know if we can do it a lot or a little; possibly, four years later. I don't know if they'll put the safety folder in a priority place either. If I take as reference the words of the very honourable president in his speech in this Parliament, the truth is that it is worrying. Counselor, in the portfolio transfer with Mr. Boi Ruiz you said: "Leave a very good legacy. I would like to ask you what this councillor understands for good heritage. Do you understand the maintenance of a public health system of quality, universal, that was built in Catalonia with the approval of the General Health Order Law? Or do you understand the policies of the past five years, which have severely eroded our health care system and which, if you continue them, will put you severely in danger? Linear shortcuts have caused confidence in the system and an obvious sense of loss of rights, quality, and that this system, envious of many, is no longer there. The mistrust has been established between users, organisations and professionals, not only for detail, but also for the repeated failure of the previous government to fulfil parliamentary mandates. But we don't lose hope in the new counselor's tarann. No, Mr. Comin, it's not a good legacy. There have been five years with a councillor with wrong priorities, with a spread of 1,408_million euros that suffered from the annual assumption and which, however, left a deficit of 900_million euros in 2015. Nor is it a good legacy the loss of 5,810 professionals assigned to the ICS and, if we also talk about the concerts, of 14,000 professionals, with a loss of self among these workers of a 22 or 25_per_cent. A total of 1,150 structural beds, sedentary plants and operating rooms have been closed. It's not a good legacy. Possibly the most worrying at this time are the waiting lists. According to data from the June 2005 CatSalut, there are 154,419 people pending surgery, 112,673 pending diagnostic tests, and we don't know what the specialist expects. And here, and at this point, is where I wanted to focus this inquiry today: in accessibility to the system, while the citizens wait to enter the waiting list; as a result of the details, the citizens expect more for everything. Because this talkative fact is not a xifra, they are people who are pending a diagnostic test, a visit or an intervention that needs to improve their quality of life. All the repeated information on the part of the department of decrease of the waiting lists, this was not so. The reform proposed at the beginning of the year 2015 meant a total setback: eleven of the fourteen surgical procedures with maximum time guarantee, is to say, with right to be attended and, as right, payable, have disappeared and now we only have time of reference. Another aspect of the lists is territorial inequity. The most outstanding increments are located in the Girona area, Lleida and the Lands of the Ebre. Today it is neither complete nor what it is in force since 2015, which has already meant a decrease, the enlargement of time for everything, from visits to the headphones to diagnostic tests, which causes fewer people to enter the surgical waiting list, because since it is not diagnosed there is no way that they can operate it. This same week, at the High Camp, it is a public fact that the waiting time for the headmaster was eight days; the decree of 2015 fixes a maximum of forty-four hours. People who go to the public health system, who are the majority, who do not have or can afford an alternative option, hope more to be listened to and intervened. Hope lists increase inequalities: those that are expected and those that are paid for an alternative. Honourable Counselor, it takes a course of work, but it must be established and urgently a maximum guaranteed time to be diagnosed and treated, which is specific for each health service. And I end up with the Social Plaque that Juntes for the Yes and the CUP presented. In the specific measures of salvation, among others, it contemplates a contribution of 96_million euros to reduce by 10_per_cent the surgical waiting lists and a 50_per_cent of visits to specialists and diagnostics. Noranta-sis_millions_about_1.408_millions of retail. Actually, we're talking about getting a 6_per_cent of the clippings. First of all, our group considers this plan to be insufficient. Secondly, it leaves me to the approval of the assumptions, company not easy people seen the statements that have been produced, and, therefore, we do not know when it will start. I don't know what we'll tell them and, above all, what the professionals will tell people who are either already on a waiting list or are hoping to be there. Go to the point where we want and we need a plate of rock, but this one he wrote is like putting a bullet in a hemorrhage. They say, in the same writing, that they will do so in public centers of the Siscat or without any work; absolutely agree, as we also agree with the guarantee of equity in the territory. And it is absolutely agreed that maximizing activity in the ICS centres will mean recovering a share of the 5,810 professionals who have been employed in the past few years and re-opening surgery and plants in these hospitals, but we are concerned that the Pla de scoc does not talk about it, nor about the increase in seedlings or the opening of plants and surgery. Tell us the professionals of an ICS hospital that, for doing general surgery, there are 2,400 patients at these times on the waiting list. Surgical resolution capacity, with current media, is 900-1,000 ORs/year. As can be deduced from the data, a whole year of surgical activity would not make the list clear and, besides, it would be hot to add up our patients. According to the managers of this center, the solution would be to increase the number of available operating rooms, between 1,300 and 1,400 a year, but above all, to equip them with personnel to cover them and re-open closed beds, as well as re-open, in full time, all post-surgical devices, especially with complex surgery. You will understand, honourable councillor, our concern and the finding of the lack of the Pla de xoc, concern expressed by mayors and mayors about the situation in the hospitals of their municipalities and comarques. Not one example is the Hospital of the Holy Spirit, in Santa Coloma, which has the list of waits in longer diagnostic tests of all Catalonia. We wanted today to put on the table one of the themes that generates more concern between the citizens and, obviously, we will address many other aspects in the appearance that the Honourable Counselor will make next week to the Health Commission. Salvation is a right that cannot be conditioned either to the level of income, to the employment situation or to its place of residence. Catalan sanitation needs more resources, more transparency and more control, but also more efficiency, efficiency and evaluation, and a better recognition of its professionals, of those who integrate it, but above all the Catalan sanitation, honourable counselor, requires a lot of political will, and that's what we ask of it. Many thanks, president, deputies and deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.184.0	There's a word from Mr. Antoni Comín, Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.185.0	Madam President, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all and for the content of your intervention. I promised myself, when I accepted the burden of being responsible for the Health Department, of talking a lot about the present and a lot about the future and not much about the past. I believe that my work as a counselor would not contribute anything to the better of the right to the salvation of the citizens if I dedicated myself to taking an examination of what policies have been in the Health Department of the last years; it is more, I believe that elegance is a virtue, in the case of politics, and when I spoke of a very good heritage I was thinking of two very different things. One of the things I was thinking about was: indeed, this country has an extraordinary health model; so much so that, even with the very hard cuts that it was all about, our health care model has resisted and continued to resist with many difficulties that it did not have for a few years: waiting lists, wage lists, reduction of seedlings – you did not talk about it – and that is why we are continuing to have a public, universal and free health model in Catalonia, and that is the proof of the very strong resilience of our health model because we are still having a public, universal and free health model in Catalonia. And, to me, one of the things that I would like you to spend, at the end of these divides, is that all of you contribute together that the citizens of our country have regained a little confidence and pride in having this universal public health model, which, indeed, needs funding to reverse the detail. It is not incompatible to regain pride in our health model by making us responsible for the 'important and legitimate undertaking that many citizens of our country have when they are to wait, when the professionals are to suffer a very strong care pressure, etcetera. I think people deserve it, it's not for me that I want people to recover pride in our health system, it's for them; they deserve to know and be aware that we have this great health model in Catalonia, which doesn't mean that you don't need many reforms. And I was thinking of something else when I said "a good legacy, that there were concrete things that we had had the chance to talk to Councilman Ruiz and that are instruments that you will agree with me that are good instruments. The Health Plan, which has just been approved, has already approved the basics of the Health Plan, which is the main instrument for planning health policy, is a good health plan, but not because it has been done from the Health Department, but because it has been done with the collaboration of hundreds of professionals of the Catalan health model, who are the ones who have been contributing to the creation of this Health Plan. On the day of Sitges there were-there were two thousand people working in the Pla de Salut. Or, for example, the Pinsap, the Interdepartmental Pla of Public Greeting. This is a legacy that I recognize as useful tools that will help us all make a good policy. But, as my interest is not about the past, let's talk about the present and try to grab... You're right, we'll have time to do a deeper debate at the show, which I'm glad to say, already to announce today that it will, I think, be the 11th in the morning; therefore, little is missing. I've already won, I've been hoping I can have more time to discuss all of this. But where are we today? Some corrections to some of the data or some of the data that you gave me, because I don't know if we match exactly in the diagnostic. In the 2015 government agreement, what was done was to determine that there was a series of... the hardest, to say the least, colloquial, malalities that had maximum guaranteed time, huh? And here we have the oncological procedures, here we have the heart surgery, and here we also have the cataracts, the malice prostheses, the knee prostheses, and the data that I have, which are public, tell us that at these times the percentage of compliment, for example, in cancer, is 100_percent. The compliment of what? Time is guaranteed. Or the compliment, in the case of knee and cataracts, which are the last treatments that have been incorporated into the mechanism of time guaranteed, is 88_per_cent. Therefore, there are times guaranteed and in some cases they are completed and in others they are close to completion. After we actually have all those interventions... – we were talking about surgical interventions; then I will go for a moment to the topic of diagnostic tests and the first visit to get a diagnosis. Out of the twenty-and-seven circuits, let's say, related to the diseases that have a greater impact on salvation and, therefore, harder, there is a time of reference – there is a time of reference – and the time of reference, we know what they are: they are nounty days in the case of the preferred priority, hundred_watching the middle priority and one year in the case of the low priority. And here too God does not exist, the levels of compliment, which are: 83_per_cent in September 2015, of the patients, were within reference time– 83_per_cent. Do we have to get better? Absolutely. Do we have to get 100_per_cent of the reference time completed? Absolutely. This is one of the commitments, let's say, that we put on the table. But... we're doing the diagnostic correctly. Primary attention: there are complaints, I know them, they come from all the territories; but, if we look at it well, we also have the data that we can be more satisfied with, not only the data that we need to worry about, do we have them all, huh? , to have a correct diagnosis: 85_percent of the people who ask for the previous quote, answer the previous quote in less than forty-four hours, which is what says the agreement that established the reference times. Moreover, there are all the emergency visits that are made in the CAP, which these do not have time to wait, because they are at the same time as they are in the same care centre; obviously, as the agenda of the professionals who are there at that time allows, they will expect less or expect more, but we are talking only about the forty-nights of waiting for those who want to go to the hour when they know that at that time the visit will touch them, 85_percent of compliment, and here there are certainly differences between territories. Miri, we will then detail you more concretely how we want to put our commitment to reducing, in the second part of my intervention, the waiting lists; I will explain to you some scenes that we have drawn. But in any case, to reduce the waiting lists, you said very well: we need money. The xoc plan has a total budget of 270_millions. These 270s, 100s are good-bye. Getting them to say hello to us would've seemed already... an owl, huh? Could it be that the whole centered xoc plan spends it on health, huh? To make the plan we need assumptions; with the current funding mark we cannot go beyond 270_millions. Having made a plan, in the current funding framework of the Generality, of more than 270_million would have been irresponsible, would have been frivolous on our part, would have been a compromise that we could not have completed. We made a platoon of 270_millions and not more, because we don't want to play with the salvation of the people, and we don't want to make a compromise that I want to see with the people who are painting the most in our country – nor a sun – that we don't think it can be completed, and that's why we said: platoon of 270_millions, and 270, 100 a salut. But we need some assumptions, because with the presuppositional prorogation it is not possible to complete the plan of shock. Therefore, Mrs Escarp, I am very pleased that you are aware of the need for a new premise, because I invite you, in particular, to your group, the Socialist Group, to help us approve these assumptions in order to make a new plan of action. If you say to me: "It seems to me a little, it seems to me a little the 270_million xoc plan for... – effectively, it seems to me a little too –, « to give answer to the needs and the right to the salvation of our citizens, I invite you to a _second adventure, I invite you to an adventure that would allow us to dispose of, effectively, more than 1,000_million euros that this councillor needs in order to be able to give full answer to the waiting lists that have come to our country. We need more than 1,000_million euros to make our country's waiting lists disappear. You know what this adventure is, and I also invite you, as well as the fact that it is committed in the right to the salvation of people, that value the opportunity to participate in this adventure, which, I insist, would allow us to reduce the waiting lists, which is said to be the construction of an independent state. I believe that anyone who compromises on the right to salvation today, anyone who compromises on the welfare state today in Catalonia should look with great interest at the likelihood that independence is a real scene. If we have all the social rights ahead of us, everyone who is truly committed to Catalonia today with the social rights of the citizens of Catalonia should look with great interest at the scene of independence, because, indeed, the most powerful instrument we have today to guarantee the social rights of our citizens must be this: to have an independent state with all the resources administered and to finance from which we would have this political situation. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.186.0	It has the word the lady Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.187.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Members... I also thank you, and to my group we are aware that the limitation in accessibility – time and waiting lists – and structural infra-financing are the two great problems of the public health system, but we are also aware of the reality that we now have, the political decisions and intentions that have brought us on. You don't want to talk about the past, but this past marks us the present and will mark us the future, because it is the starting point that will condition its management. Look, you've talked about a number of things, and I'd like to point something out and then I'll go into the end of your intervention. You spoke of the decree of 2015 and of interventions, basically diagnostic and interventions, of the maximum guaranteed time. There were fourteen interventions that were contemplated, there were eleven; possibly it was time to review them. Mr. Boi Ruiz made a press wheel and said that it had increased to forty-seven, because it had incorporated, at this time maximum guarantees, all oncological and cardiological interventions. I would like to remind the Councillor that from the first moment oncology and heart interventions were considered with emergency protocols and therefore were not part of a maximum guaranteed time, because their treatment was of urgency. Possibly not written, but the general consensus within the whole system, as it is now, is that the oncology and heart protocol is urgent for its natural self and, therefore, let me hide in a fine way – it is a trap, because interventions have not increased in time of hope guaranteed, they have been reduced, because oncology and heart, for their own affectation, they have their circuit suitable and, therefore, it is so. You're talking to me about primary care. Look, I think..., I absolutely agree: we need to provide more resources for primary care, because, moreover, I am convinced and I am sure that it will coincide with what a key paper has and that, if we take primary care and give it paper in the diagnostic and priority process, we will avoid this circuit of specialization and hope at this time, we have patients in the cloud, because they are not in one test or another. Therefore, we give – and here you will find me, counselor, to me and my group –..., one of the things we have to do is actually take primary care. This was because what is obvious is that if the CAPs are the ones that manage the agendas of the specialized external consultation, the diagnostic tests and the access to the socio-sanitary, with a good coordination mechanism, we have good professionals who will be able to avoid, basically, this increase of lists of waits where we would be. Yes, we have good instruments, the Pla de Salut. But I ask you, on the Pla de salut, to regain your consent. If we do not have to learn from this past, it is not only from this mistrust that it has generated with the incompliments with respect to what was approved in this Parliament, but also, and basically, because it has broken the consensus, that always, historically, had all the themes of health policy. We ask you, Counselor, that the Pla de Salut, which was born without consent, we continue to recover it and, therefore, pull forward. Anyway, I'd like to finish by telling you that we have to ask you more, Mr. Counselor, on the subject of lists and in the waiting time. It has to be and we ask him to follow something more than a manager. We'll wait for you... and you'll keep us next to you if you take over the citizens, if you guarantee them rights and equality. The government must commit itself to fulfilling the same terms for everyone, known a priori. And if it doesn't, the citizens must have all the right to claim and the government must give them an alternative or solution. This does not happen at this time, it does not happen because, when one loses the waiting time guarantees, loses the right to the claim, loses the right to the requirement and, therefore, the right to be treated in another public center of the characteristic same and professional same. And I would like to end by making a recognizance of what and who has endured the public health system: the professionals of this country, professionals with the best training system that exists in Europe, professionals who endure every day to the limit, a small one, that we have put them among all, and above all a recognizance of the citizenry, those who are waiting and who, despite everything, still believe in our system of salvation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.188.0	I've got the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.189.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, we come to do politics and you did not manage, clearly. And, besides, doing politics is trying, before I do, to rebuild the lost consensus, and as long as I do. And, therefore, I say to him: I will not only seek consensus in the Pla de salud, that it is that it has much more felt a plan of salvation consensual by definition, by the very nature of the instrument, than without consensus. It is that I will seek consensus in all and in each of the policies that are done from the department; I have already said that this morning, too, with VISC+. I've come to this, among other things, say it, right? And then also tell him that, effectively, the mayors of this country will tend in Councillor Comín – forgive me that I speak like that, in third person, eh? - Your best ally, sure. I will not say more than others, completely allied to the primarists, because I believe that it is a doctrine assumed for everyone that, effectively, the empowerment of the primary system improves the system. Another thing is that this theory, assumed for everyone, primarists and not primarists, is easy or difficult to bring to practice. So, actually... and it has to work, and that, in addition, we want to start proving it, already, with facts and not just with words, with the same restructuring of the department. And in the names that these days are making, that I am making, it reflects already the willingness to give primary priority in departmental policies. In waiting lists, very quickly, only, to detail it, concrete commitments. One, obviously, completes the terms, as long as time guarantees or reference time, where it is not complete. There are still points in which the terms are not complete; they must be completed. Two: that the priority criteria, between reference times, are basically clinical criteria, and also social criteria, of the patient's social situation – according to compromises. Third compromise: transparency. Sometimes there has been a debate about whether the reduction of the waiting lists is ugly makeup the data, not makeup... Listen, we'll do new things, which had not been done until now, because it's technically impossible to make up. What are we gonna do? So, we'll have a six-monthly publication on the website of the Catalan Health Service, where all the lists will be, broken down by center and by type of intervention. We'll do this, and we'll take advantage of the "My Greetings" portal, because the person, individually, is aware of what their situation is with regard to the waiting lists. And some more technical measures that, in any case, lead to a debate on whether the reduction of the waiting lists is making make-up or not. How do we do it, then, by reducing the waiting lists? In the only way that can be done: increasing the capacity; therefore, posing more professional, posing more surgical, posing more diagnostic tests... And that's why we're talking – in the case of waiting lists for surgical intervention – about 75_million, just for surgical intervention, which we've already publicly explained on some other occasion: with this the only thing we'll do is absorb the increase resulting from the reduction of the waiting list to the diagnostic phase, because, effectively, the reduction of the waiting list to the diagnostic phase causes an increase, which we've calculated about 10_per_cent, between 8 and 10_per_cent, to the waiting list for surgical intervention. And, therefore, what we're going to do is absorb this increase with these 75_million. A technical detail, but that is important: here, more than prioritising those diseases that have a preference for clinical or social reasons, we have to take care of the skin. It happens that there are people who have a less difficult situation, but in the end they have been waiting so much, so much, that the same waiting end up feeling unacceptable. Therefore, we want to manage the lists, it is very important to be able to manage the lists. This will allow us to make a calculation of all current expectations, to make a medium. At the end of the reduction process we can make a calculation of which is the average of all expected results, and the objective is that the expected result, the average result, is a 10_percent lower than the average of inicians, let's say. This would be the way to explain the compromise shown in the reduction plan of 10_per_cent. In diagnostic tests, a point that I think is important, even though it is a little technical issue, and there were no reliable data, because the information system for which it does diagnostic tests or has been seriously installed until early 2015. Therefore, it is now that we will have the first annual size that will allow us to know what the situation is for what it does to the waiting lists in relation to the diagnostic phase, first visit to the specialist, etcetera, complementary tests, etcetera. I also want to end, obviously, as we all have to end, that it is a recognition to the health professionals, doctors, nurses, researchers of this country, that they have endured the system during these hard years of detail; and so much so that they have endured it! But I don't just have the duty to make a verbal recognizance. I have a duty to look at, in a situation of presuppositionary restriction, which other measures we can implement from the Health Department to encourage, to accompany, to make this recognition of the professionals of our country. Without them, we wouldn't have one of the best greetings in the world today. And, still in the crisis, we have it. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.190.0	The item on the agenda is the question to the Government on the new water and territorial culture presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. [[Question to the Government on the new water and land culture]] [[300-00002/11]] There's a word from Mr Sergi Saladié.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.191.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. It is an inquiry into the new culture of water and territory, and then we will make a general frame of what is the model we have, or rather do not have, from the territorial point of view, in a context where there is a drop in systemic metabolism in general. Two dice just to hear this. The consumption of cement in the Spanish State fell to the levels of the sixties, with a drop of more than 75_per_cent compared to the maximum of 2007-2008. And in the transport of goods by road we are currently at levels of the year 2002-2003, with a drop of 27_per_cent compared to the maximum of 2007-2008. Therefore, we have a face-to-face front, facing the future, above all to build this future Catalan republic, and starting point, say, that it is not very hopeful from the point of view of territorial planning. Indeed, in Catalonia we have a law of territorial policy since the year 83. This law of territorial policy, therefore, is thirty-three years old, already beginning to be a little grenade. And, from the point of view of the practical application of territorial planning, this has not been completed until very recently, giving for good this phrase of a gironic geology that says that Catalonia is a country that we legislate a lot, that we manage a little and that we value things. From the point of view of territorial planning, that's it. The general territorial plan of Catalonia was not approved until the year 95, fourteen years after it was said to have been done. And the partial territorial plans that were also derived from this Territorial Policy Act do not have them until a very recent period, concretely from 2007 to 2010. So, we were between twenty-four and twenty-seven years to do something that year 83 already said we had to do. Therefore, the non-application of this territorial policy, of this territorial planning, has meant that one of the main objectives of that law, which is the territorial rebalancing of Catalonia, has not been achieved. But, of course, the country has managed equally, things have happened, everyone has seen it, especially these last twenty-five years. And how did that happen? So, from sectoral laws, from iron, say, a country to pieces of different sectoral laws, where each department has legislated on reelings, the other on water, the other on energy, the other on urbanism..., and so we are making country to pieces. This not always, this way of making territorial politics to pieces, from sectoral policies, does not always favor the general interest. Moreover, it is used to promoting speculative processes, generates numerous territorial conflicts and many times generates a lack of coherence of the territorial system. Therefore, this way of doing territorial politics from pieces, as we say, generates these controversies, these contradictions, usually high public costs – we will see some data – and many of these evils practiced in the application of these sectoral policies are current. And I'd like to talk about three issues, if you give everyone time in this first ton and, if you don't, we'll leave some to the turn of the line or counter-reply – I don't know what you're saying, that's it. In the case of water. The case of water..., have been characterized, the sectoral policies of water, for an expansion of the waters, for a band; for another band, for a privatization of the management, both high and low, and for an impulse or consent of the different transfers. As Manolo Tomàs, of the PDE, says: "All governments, of all colors, in all stages, have at least proposed a proposal for the transfer of the Hebrew. Therefore, we find ourselves faced with a systemic problem of the transfer proposal. Sectoral water policies have also contributed to a good quality of water. A couple of examples, just. Flix's case: a few years ago, the accumulation of toxins at the bottom of the pant was unravelled, which, moreover, now that this decontamination is over, all this is in legal proceedings, in the trial of Falset, for a possible environmental crime in decontamination works. And, besides, now we also know that the lands where the different naus and the different industries of Ercros to Flix are installed are also contaminated. Therefore, we understand that the Government should require Aquamed, a public company that is also being investigated right now, to complete it immediately and, more importantly, to be sure of all the process of decontamination of the pantá, as well as the creation of a secure network of drinking water supplies to the different coastal peoples that have not yet completed it. That's what they say about Madrid, huh? As we always say, but there are also things that we can do, that it is to finish the studies for the declaration of contaminated soils of all the industrial district of Flix, so that before the company leaves we do not leave this problem, that we will have to pay it among all, if we do not do it before, and let the company take charge of this decontamination. There is an estimated cost of decontamination of these land between 100 and 200 million euros; so either we lay the batteries or we will pay the party another time. In the case of Iberpotash, in the Bages: contamination of the aquifers of all the conca of the Llobregat... It works, moreover, without environmental authorization since October 2013, ratified by a recent judgment of this year, 2015, and moreover the European Commission is studying possible harmful effects for the salvation and incompliments of European directives both on the part of the company and on the part of the Generality. In this sense, we believe that a withdrawal of the public interest qualification should be made and that this undertaking fulfils all its responsibilities and obligations in the field of public health and the environment. Another issue that has fostered water policies is the favour of great realms that have proved to be, in the long run, repayable to the end-users, and all the proposal and batteries of different transfers. We know the case of the transfer of the Hebrew to Tarragona, the transfer of the Ter to the Llobregat, the great hydraulic works to the Segarra-Garrigues, the Xerta-Senia... Now, the current government is supporting the Platform in Defense of the Ebre to claim approval of this recent Pla hydrològic before Madrid. Welcome to the defense of the territory, to this new government. And in this sense – let me make a parenthesis – remember that this diumenge, in the Lands of the Ebre and all of Catalonia, we will go back out to the territory, we will go back out to defend the river, we will go back out to defend the delta, and many times as you need. I Terres de l'Ebre, as I said yesterday for Lleida, who fell for Lleida the deputy García Albiol, says: « To the Terres de l'Ebre – says – « there are four votes. No, there are not four votes in the Lands of the Jews, but it is a territory that has regained its dignity and will fight now and always for the defense of its resources and its territory. In this sense, what we say, this sentence: "It is Madrid's fault, yes, in this case yes, and we must go all together, better, but we also have responsibilities and work to do in Catalonia. The hydrological plate of the inner shells, which is our hydrological plate, huh? Ours, the Catalan Hydrological Plate, stands – is not approved yet, but it stands and is about to be approved – a drop of 40_percent of the ecologically sound ones that a sectoral plan approved for the Generality in 2006 said that we would have to take our risks. That's for a band. In addition, this plan, this proposal for a Catalan hydrological plan, contemplates or leaves the door open to possible transfers between conches. So, what we don't want from Madrid, we don't do ourselves. Therefore, in this sense, further away from recognizing today – and welcome you continue – the struggle for the defence of the Jew, the warmth also to recognize the whole struggle for the defence of the other rivers: the Ter, the Gaia, the Segre, the Ciurana and so many others of the Principality; to support all the current water policies respecting the ecological standards that mark this Sectoral Plagiarism of maintenance cabals approved for this Parliament and that, moreover, they must complete the Marc Water Directive; we must review the Segarra-Garrigues and Xerta-Sénia regadius, and they must close the doors to any transvasion. There is another point to be made: that we do not want to be made from Madrid, it is to say, that we take sediments or that we take sediments, that we take water, we also have to apply it to our home. Moreover, water policies have also promoted processes of privatization of water management. In this sense, these privatization processes ultimately involve a water price concern and social exclusion levels every time bigger, made worse by the crisis that we are currently living in. So from this point of view we understand that, immediately, the government would have to work to give compliments to points 1 and 9 of the annex to the statement that we approved the 9th of November in this Parliament, so that no one, huh? , to ensure that no person is deprived of access to basic services, in this case drinking water. Moreover, private water management processes should be reversed, in those cases where the government has a direct influence or connection, as is the case with the Aigues Ter Llobregat, ATLL, but also promote public policies that allow remunicipation. And in this sense we go back to the same way that we don't respect or apply things that this Parliament approves. This Parliament, on April 30, 2015 approved a motion that spoke of the creation of the PARMA, which is the Monitoring Plan and resources for the municipality of water, is to say, to give support to the assemblies that want to initiate remunicipalization processes, and this PARMA, as said, is neither expected nor expected, is to say that the Government has not yet completed it. I will introduce an element, a new element of territorial policy, of sectoral policy, more clearly, in this case related to communication infrastructures, which I will close to the next round. In the case of communication infrastructures, both the Catalonian General Territorial Plan, of the year 95, which only looks at the road map and the rail map, already made it very clear that the bet here has always been to enhance the road network in front of the rail network. The railway network, counting the TGV, said, would be the same as fifty years ago as regards quantity, and the quality, said, said, therefore, that it would not be the best at the present time. Therefore, this power, moreover, this power of the road network, has often been illogical: in many cases we find ourselves with high-capacity lanes or lives – motorways and motorways – that are parallel, in the case of the AP-2, in the case of the AP-7. And in those cases where that didn't happen, which didn't make it across this road, we find ourselves with some very high left-handed levels. And that's what I'm going to approach from the next comeback, because I see that I'm running out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.192.0	Mr. Saladié, I'd appreciate it if you didn't put the samarreta back in the Faristol. There's a word from Territori's advisor, Mr. Josep Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.193.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable advisors, ladies and gentlemen... you have raised an inquiry from which I believe that if we work well and there is a political will, we can come to a great deal of agreement. In fact, the methodology that you spread is an interesting methodology, which is, let's say, betting on the theory of Russian children, to hear us: to make great levels of planning and, from here on, to give coherence to the set of actions that could be done in the territory. In fact, this has been the capture of the various governments from the absolutation of autonomy since the Statute of Autonomy of 79. I might agree with you that, at the rhythm level, we've been discompassed; it's true. Since the Territorial Order Law was approved until the General Plan, the General Plan of Catalonia, was made, there was a significant shift in time. But in this concrete period this country, from the local world, with the support of the Government of Catalonia, was able to put a first level of order in local urbanism, in the urbanism of detail. And that was especially important in a country where absolutely inverse things had been done. At these times we still pay for the consequences, at these times we still have situations of urbanisation that are absolutely predatory of the territory and without any guarantee regarding the service. And the need to provide Catalonia with a detailed urban planning that you allow, in the first instance, to put an end to what had been unearthed during the Franco era, especially; think, in the Republican Generality had fixed good lines to set up, to organize the country, and there was a void for practically thirty or forty years. The other day we paid a tribute to Albert Serratosa, one of the Pla's peers, and to absolve him there was a constant struggle and tenacity. But it's true: during that period he straightened out and made the Pla General de Catalunya. And a lot of sectoral legislation was done, too. I do not share his theory that this legislation or this sectoral planning, let's say, was atzarous respect for joint objectives. In a nutshell, it wasn't a juxtaposition, let's face it, but it still met that general criteria that set the law of year 83. But this law is obsolete for us, and it's true. And, therefore, it is a compromise that I already take on behalf of the Government of Catalonia, in this inquiry, that in this parliamentary term we will bring to Parliament a new territorial law of Catalonia, a law, let us say, that fits the nine demands of the new requirements of the country and that it is still able, also, to update certain forecasts not only of the general plane of Catalonia, but of partial territorial plans, that are partial territorial plans that arrive late and that are made with forecasts of growth of the country that at these times, and you have started with the first part of your inquiry, do not respond to reality. There is an expectation of growth from Catalonia that it will reach around 10 million inhabitants, and this today we know of the fact that it will not be so and, among other things, an important consensus has been generated that it is not good that it is so, with the time that that planning previews that this country was to grow. What is the basic concept on which we want to build the entire strategy of action in the area of planning, water management and water management, this government? That is to take a widely shared concept, I believe that it is unanimously shared by this chamber, that it is the concept of sustainable development: extending the quality of life to present generations without mortgageing that of future generations. That's the basic idea. Sustainable development means, essentially, this. Do you mean in these moments stop growing or decreasing? No, no, It means growing up with terms that allow us to extend this quality of life today, but without severe mortgages in our own generations. That is why the first law we wanted to propose in this Parliament was the Climate Change Law. Perhaps it is the most genuine expression of what we call sustainable development. And, in this context, has water policies been planned? Yes, and it was also a concrete prelude before you had the Water Framework Directive. And in this country, and in Catalonia, it was a policy of sanitation long before any other territory of the Spanish State, with the first PSARU, with the first sewage treatment plant. And it was done, without the help of the European Union in the first instance, and here the country, the country's conjunction, made a very important effort. And this country, before anyone else in the whole of the Spanish State, has put on the table the canon of sanitation, the canon of sanitation that has now evolved in the water canon, that is a modern conception, a conception of co-responsibility, a conception that links this idea of sustainable development, and that we have seen that from other territories – and nothing else happens, but we want to see it today in the Parliament – of the State they made their plans for sanitation without there being a canon of sanitation, without there being a concrete effort from the territory, because it came through the help of the European Union, and we have anticipated it. Yes, it is true that this did not have any reward, it did not have any compensation. That huge effort that made this country from the hand of Albert Vilalta, the first councillor of Medi Ambient, not only from Catalonia, but from the joint Spanish State, let's say, did not have this compensation. But we had to do it, and we had to do it with those terms. And the new water culture, you've defined it very well, and this is also a _mark that we can share. At least relatively recently, hydraulic policies were concerned, above all, with the balance between resources and demands, which meant that the water masses were regarded as a simple resource. Today, this government wants to captivate, according to Parliament, what is the new water culture, what is required of us by the same European Union, in the sense that the basic objective is the quality of the water masses, which means that if we improve ecosystems are able to guarantee a good quality of water for consumption. And this is the concept, and this is the layout, and this is the priority of the objectives set by the Water Framework Directive. And that's why this diumenge will have this manifestation in the Lands of the Hebrews, in the sense that the first of the objectives, the first, let's say, in this hierarchy, in this prevalence, the first one to be guaranteed is the full ecological, they are the full environmental. And this is the most important fight that is due to the end not the Platform for the Defense of the Jews alone, but a very important part of the scientific community. And that's why we feel very comfortable at the time of fighting this plan of conca, this hydrological plan of the State, because we use some tools that are very solid, that are the scientific studies that recognize that there is a complete ecological in each of the periods and that we must be able to guarantee. And you have incorporated the theme of the regents, the theme of the regadius. Ecologic cabal, yes, and proper regals, well conceived, obviously as well. Because, if at the end of the day there's a confrontation between these uses and interests, we won't get out of it. And what we say is that there is the priority that the Water Framework Directive sets for us, but, obviously, an appropriate management of other uses – of the consumption of mouth, of industrial consumption, of regadius... – that it can allow us a question that you have also put in value in your inquiry, that it is the territorial balance, that it is the ability of this country to hold people in the territory, to avoid that there is this excessive concentration that has occurred around the metropolitan area of Barcelona and that, at these times, it has also occurred around the metropolitan area of Tarragona. This is what we must be able to plant and, therefore, make a good combination of these uses. And this is the object of the inner shell plan, and we have demonstrated how it can be managed in a modern, advanced way, this resource so strategic that it is for the country. What's the limitation – and I end up, President, on this first turn – that we have, and you also set it up? It is the lack of political power, the fact that we can only legislate or plan or make full decisions about a specific part of our country. We will have the opportunity to continue to respond and, especially, with these new elements that you have put on the table, in relation to the road network, to the rail network. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.194.0	There's a word from Mr Sergi Saladié.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.195.0	All right, thank you, President. As this issue will be brought to the next seat for debate in the next plenary, so I will have the opportunity to work all these different points and, therefore, I am relieved now to answer it, and, as I said, I would like to address a couple of questions that I had left pending in the first part. In relation to the duplication of the road network: this bet, say, absurd, incoherent, abusive, much more expensive than not releasing the tolls there where there is a high-capacity way, which is used to being already dampened and which, moreover, have a current journey, as those data did at the beginning, much lower and which, therefore, do not have problems with col·lapse, no? But, look, this is where we got caught driving off the highways, and the paradox is these places where it hasn't happened yet. Because you say, out of evil, if you've done everything, then at least we'd have places that would have the same conditions as the rest of the territory. But we have two trams, say, with strong demands, as is the tram of the national 340 between the Hospitallet de l'Infant and Torreblanca, in the Valencian Country, and the 240 between Montblanc and Lleida, which are these two trams with a high left-handedness where, for example, from the Lands of the Ebro, already divided weeks after they cut the road to claim the immediate and urgent release of the toll of the AP-7 highway between the Hospitallet de l'Infant and Torreblanca. In the case of the Lands of Lleida, and the Conca of Barbera too, there is a general consensus, it has historically followed. Some party had gone, like his, Convergence, but now it has rejoined; yesterday statements came out from the mayor of June and Borges saying that they were about to demand immediate release, while the issue of making the highway was not resolved. But in any case, we don't know when this is going to happen. Making these unfoldings has very high costs. In Lleida's concrete case, if this immediate release is made, it would mean a savings of EUR 220 million for public finances. Making this release would be worth about 80_million euros, and doing the job, which you wouldn't know when it would be, means 300_million euros. Therefore, we are not now in public finances to spend money. So, somehow, what we are asking of you as CUP is that the government, with urgent character, requires the State to immediately release the tolls between the trams of the Hospitallet de l'Infant in Torreblanca, in our case for competitions we can currently ask until the Senia, and in the case of the AP-2 tram between Montblanc and Lleida. That's to say, it's a government attitude to go and claim this, because what we can't do is get deader on the reels. And, finally, one point with regard to one last question that I would like to deal with. All these questions that we are dealing with today will have an appeal to the length of this term, but in any case, we would like to fix a little position as CUP - Crida Constituent we think on these three themes, and they will not appear of others, as is the case with food sovereignty, etc. In the case of the energy system and, therefore, energy sovereignty, the lack of exclusive skills, which we also pass with the reels, has made that from here not all the attention that requires one of those basic things to run the system, that is blood, huh? , is the energy that passes through the networks, that circulates through the different channels. And there has never been a firm willingness on the part of all governments to capture this energetic model; a model that has proven to be inefficient, a model that has shown to be insecure, that it is contaminating, that it presents risks, that it has radioactive residues, etc. We have, precisely, a high nuclear rate with the country. In the case of the Principality we have three nuclear power stations in operation, which, more than many of them, are very useful. That is to say, the middle of the three nuclear power plants we have in the Principality is thirty years old, when the world's middle of shutdown of nuclear power plants is twenty-four years old. Therefore, we should start thinking about locking them up urgently, before we tank them to ourselves. Moreover, in the case of renewables, there has never been a decisive and firm bet to bring forward an authentic policy that allows you to change this energetic model, which, as we say, is absolutely inefficient. In this sense, the potential we have solar, wind and biomass in Catalonia is completely underutilized, and when it has been modestly committed to the development of renewable energies – in the case of wind – it has not been done with enough quantity or quality. Just to give an example, municipalities that have wind power plants at their terms only receive a 3.4_per_cent billing, and that can't be. I mean, we need to get a lot more renewable energy, but we need to get it well over the territory, so that it's efficient. So, in this sense, what we are asking is that the Government should urgently ask for the immediate closure of the nuclear power plants in the Principality, to reverse all the processes of construction of new high voltage lines, which are the result of this model, and to develop a new plan of energy with an execution character, but – not as we have so far had, that it was not – which prioritizes renewable energies, but above all, this question that was at the end of it, which is prioritising the distributed generation under Community control, which is a question, let us say, that we ultimately lead to a much more efficient, much more democratic and much more sustainable model, as you said that we have to be now, right? ...that we've been here a long time, but, so, well..., eh? Thank you very much – come on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.196.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.197.0	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Councillors, ladies and gentlemen... Mr Saladié, we will not now be fighting to see who is more sustainable or less sustainable, but I have already mentioned Albert Vilalta, I insist, the first Councillor of Medi Ambient who was able, with a very short time, to establish a very solid, very advanced basis, with this conception of the sustainable development of a country. In fact, the later governments, the later departments of Medi Ambient after Albert Vilalta, still alive from that base. And, therefore, let's say, I want to claim, to a very good extent, what he assumed and the progress that all these years the various governments of Catalonia have made in this concrete area. You've incorporated the road network. If you allow me – with a lot of cordiality, eh? – its intervention is very difficult to talk about concrete actions on the road network ignoring the rail network. To a very good extent, we have a network of high-performance services, a high-capacity network, which we could say to the motorways or to the motorways, the unfolded lives, which take on a volume of traffic that is much higher than what they would have to assume if we had a railway network, concretely of goods, which was adequate, which was able. And, therefore, at the time of conceiving the conjunction of the Catalan road network, we would focus it in different terms. Or, for example, in access to large cities, to large cities. Now we're talking, and this is a very important issue in this legislature, as we're looking at the rail network of rolling stock, as well as the extension of the Generality Railways to Terrassa, which have produced spectacular results, an increase in demand of about 50_per_cent, only in these six_months since it came into operation... Now, at the end of January we'll finish the Sabadell works and, therefore, it will also assume that, and all the work on the round of rolling stock. We've got users, let's say, of the reelers, of the highways, even though they're free to pay, and take them to public transport. This is the idea, and this is the bet, and this is the country's strategic bet, not just in relation to goods, but also in relation to expanding the public transport network. Today, this morning, we're talking about subway line 9. The most powerful action, or the most powerful, in the fight against climate change is to put in twenty-kilometres of line 9 of the meter. It's about compacting it in those terms. Here too, as far as Catalonia is concerned, we have made commitments and taken risks. At the level of the State, therefore, what, let's say, we are inheriting is a situation that has no logic, cap. The design of the high-capacity travel network in the Spanish State is absolutely anarchic and generates a serious sense of weight compared to Catalonia. Because, while here the great lives of high performance of the State are toll-free, the rest of the State is free. And this generates a very, very intense feeling of weightlessness. And it's true: until we're able to give a coherent and harmonic view to the whole system, so we can produce overlaps like the ones that ended up and, if I may say so, have been perpetrated in Catalonia in certain cases. Because we don't have all the tools. And that generates these elements of contradiction. You made a good part of your relationship with road safety. And it's true. In other words, the number of accidents at 340 is unacceptable as the country, or 240, as the Garrigues, is unacceptable as the country. And, therefore, we have tasted a model that is not the final model, but it is that of the National II in Girona, which has drastically reduced the accident to the National II in Girona; a National II, the only radial of the Spanish State that was not unfolded at the time, and that continues to have a medium intensity of vehicles to the French State, and that it is unexpected that it is not unfolded. This is a very direct compromise. This same week I will go to see the Minister of Development, at the request of the same Minister of Development, and these themes, which you set out in the 340 and 240, will be basic elements and will be priority elements. Planning for the road network? Yeah. But we don't forget about the railway network. And with regard to energy – and I finish, Madam President – there's a question that's basic about renewables: you can't change the game standards of the game to half the game. And that's what the Spanish government did. Does anyone talk about legal insecurity? Let me see Minister Soria and let me see President Rajoy and you will know what legal insecurity means in relation to the deployment of renewables. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen; Mrs President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.198.0	The eighth point of the order of the day is the question to the Government about water policies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot. [[Question to the Government on water policies]] [[300-00003/11]] The word "Mrs. Hortênsia Grau".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.199.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs, MPs, Councillors, MPs, MPs..., well, after hearing Mr Sergi Saladié with all the list of hardships that we suffer in the territories of the south, specifically the Camp of Tarragona and the Lands of the Ebre, but also Catalonia, I think that a lot of work will be done, to this Government. But, look, I'll focus..., I told you that the inquiry would be about water policies, and therefore I'll focus on water policies, and, concretely, on the plans, on the Ebro Conca Plate and on the internal Conca Plate. In the Jewish Conca Plate because we all know we're gonna have the threat again, right? , of this approved hydrological plan, which approved a government in function, the 8th generation, in time of discount, and which, moreover, is trampled on..., is the same plan that had already been approved five years late in 2014 and in which we made a common front in order to be able to fight against this plan, approving motions. I remember here a motion that we approved in 2014 in which we had to make a series of deures, the Catalan Government had to make a series of deures in order to be able to make this rebuig, because we all know that this plan, the way to drop it, or a way to drop it, today, is..., that plan, and this one that will come, is to the European Commission, and the way is, precisely because this plan violates community directives, both the water directive, like the habitat directive, like the Aus directive; and that is why we could prove to Europe that we should drop it. Miri, as I did in 2012 and 2014, counselor, I will ask you what the Government of Catalonia has done; what it could have done and has not done, and, above all, what it will do from now on to put up with this new hydrological plan. Also, on the second part, I will ask you about the internal conch plan, which, Mr. Saladié, is not a sectoral plan; the conch plan is, as if we say, the national hydrological plan of Catalonia, it is the Catalan plan that obliges the Water Mark Directive– and that now the second cycle, 2016-2021– is to be made, and that, unfortunately, they are communicating vessels with the Pla de l'Ebre. And here's where it shows what the real water management policy of the Government of the Generalitat is. And I'm going to ask him a few questions because they worry about us, and more about this scene of the same—northdays without rain—that it seems that, even so, the archbishop of Barcelona, who commits us to read—that reminds me of something that seems to have been done by a counselor—so he's worried. So let them explain to us what their government's actions will be and what commitments they will make. With the hydrological plate of the conca de l'Ebre, more extensive, as we have had, more extensive to fight, on the 7th we will be, there will be many, I suppose there will be the care of the always and care of the new, in Amposta: welcome, welcome, but this conflict cannot be placed in a political issue of "take water to Catalonia, not Spain. Because, in this sense, the Catalan government could have been faster and more efficient with what it had to do. For example, you know that the Xarxa Natura 2000 management plan had to be made in order to be able to present it to the CHE, which has been incorporated, and to be able to demonstrate that these complete ones do not allow to maintain the areas of special conservation. That's not what he did. We asked for it here. It wasn't done, the plan. I ask you: did the plan, you, present it when you presented the allegations? Have you presented the complaint to Europe that we have told you to submit? She's not going to introduce herself. When did the contents manage, did they incorporate it? They don't know. And, lastly, in this sense: this is the document that you delivered... – you personally, and the President went to the meeting with the PDE – is the document that you delivered to the platform, to the PDE? Is this it: the Board of Management Xarxa Natura 2000? Because this plaza we need, counselor, if we want to continue fighting and denouncing to Europe the Pla de l'Ebre 2015. Another issue is that neither has the Generality been active for which it makes reference to the theme of regadius. Here all the communities went to take the water reserves, because this enters after the water banks, transfers, etc., and Catalonia made reserves of 165,000 hectares. He didn't give in here either, Catalunya. Perhaps now, that we have this national water pact hanging out and repositioning all the waters, just like Navarre and the Valencian country are being replanted, we can be with the rest of the communities of the entire basin to see whether these 165,000 hectares are really needed or not. Because what can't be done is to tell others to stop watering and that they're missing their hectares, and here they don't touch ours so they don't have "brown" or "left-of-the-Ebre delta" or "left-of-the-Ebre delta" or "left-of-the-Ebre delta" or "left-of-the-Ebre delta" or "left-of-the-Ebre delta" or "left-of-the-Ebre delta" or "left-of-the-Ebre delta" or "left-of-the-Ebre delta" or "left-of-the-Ebre delta" water lords. Therefore, this is an issue that this government will have to face. And other questions that we have already brought to the House and that are tools that we really need to bring the complaint to Europe. And I hope this time, on the 8th... – on the 7th there is the 'hands', on the 8th the MEPs come to make the visit, and I hope that this time the Government of Catalonia can submit the complaint to the European Commission before this plan reaches the Commission. According to the question: the Pla de conca fluvial de Catalunya or the one we call the plan of internal conches, that is, the national plan, eh? , because we have this bicephaly with the issue of water management that the State did not resolve and that, of course, patimo. But it is true that in the matter of internal conquests, responsibility, competition, they are of the Government of Catalonia and that, moreover, we have a lot of good work done, recognized for the Government of the State, recognized for Europe, and did not do so by Councillor Vilalta. You don't deserve it, do you? , to Councilman Vilalta. Hat to Councilman Vilalta. But, of course, there was a counselor who said Salvador Milà did a lot of water work, and so I think it's fair to recognize him. Look, while the Government, with one hand, Councillor Rull..., while the Government with one hand is denouncing the Ebro River Basin Plate, it turns out that it is making an internal plan of concessions that incurs the same problems or in the same failures of the Water Mark Directive and that, when it arrives in Europe, or if it arrives, it could make the same requirements as the Government of the State is making it. It does not include the analysis of all the water masses – which says the directive to be included. The company Sergi has also commented on this: the environmental cabals that you propose are a smaller 40_per_cent than the Pla 2009-2015 set. There are some breaches of the Habitats Directive. We haven't solved the issue of vulnerable areas, of nitrification; you know we have a lot of chicks – we've been talking about last year's legislature – about which we can't take water from the mouth, from contamination by purins... We haven't solved it. We haven't solved the issue of cost recovery. The poor president of the ACA, the last legislature was left alone with my defender the canon row because they had it removed, and that is also an incompliment, because here there is what the directive says about cost recovery. And the harder: we haven't approved a plan of the same; a plan of the same that, on the coast, that the ACA has done, technically, huh? , and that there are measures to be able to do so, but the protocol has not been fixed. And what has made us more surprised, what we really believe is that it's already a mess and a laugher, is that when you do this internal conch platter, the català platter, it turns out that in the Aigues Ter Llobregat system, already in 2015, water is needed. You must carry water, you say, from external shells. And what do they do? In accounts to tell us how we will solve this water supply required in the Ter-Llobregat system, page 34, you say that this is being transferred to the future national hydrological system. That is to say, we want sovereignty but when we have the ATLL system problem, which we can solve because we have mechanisms to solve it internally, they say that the future national hydrological plan will solve it, with which thing..., listen, if it is to solve the future national hydrological plan from external conches, the closest external conca is that of the Jew. Therefore, I ask you, counselor: what you are saying here is that to solve the ATLL theme will need a water transfer from the Ebre or an interconnection of networks? And, besides, are the quantities very similar to those in Aznar's 2001 curse? Because, of course, the quantities match. Clearly, it's deficit, this conca. It's deficient and, more... but you, who have mechanisms, don't have them, and continue with this insistence on bringing in the external water resources, when the directive says that this is the last resort. I mean, this has been a constant. As I said... Councilman Vila also said: "Well, not the Jew, but come from the Kingdom. When, in reality, if we set aside the management measures of the plan of cons approved by the former Government, we would not have this problem. Why? Because we could pull over the drainers, we could pull over a series of third-party measurements, which I'll explain after the extension. But, just's, what's very hard is that it turns out that this gets worse matching ATLL's privatisations. Because, of course, it turns out that at Agbar and Action, and even though the water canon has been pushed down, the more it comes out, the more it gets, the more it takes the water from the surface shells or from the pond aquifers, the more it takes the water from the desalinated water. Ergo, privatizations always end up maximizing the benefits of some and feel a problem for the majority of citizens. That's why, I, the one asking you is..., these measurements, look, I'll give you data: the Prat and Tordera desalinator are working very well under your abilities. What does that mean? That they are extracting whole from the Llobregat and the Ter over which the whole environment is set. The policy of recovery and reuse of back-waters up from the Llobregat, coming from the third party, has been completely abandoned. Continued extractions from Cornellà, Besòs and Tordera's chicks have been maintained. That is to say, this policy of extremizing the water catchment of the waters of the Ter and Llobregat, the one that poses in peril... – and I know it hard that the president does not follow, but I am sure he will bring it to him–, the one that is posing in peril is the compromise of the Ter, to maintain the complete environmental of the Ter, a compromise that you, escorted, did not fight until when you were at the opposition in 2008 – now there is an intervention by the deputy Casadesus. So it turns out that this whole Ter environment we're not keeping. With what I see...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.200.0	Yeah, yeah... it's happening.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.201.0	I'm sorry, President. So, then I keep going, counselor. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.202.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.203.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable councillors, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, it went very quickly, you! [[The timer laughs.]] He spoke very quickly and spoke very quickly to this government, but obviously the government that he has is to answer in this Parliament, to complete the function of control, and also to be able to agree on the function of impulse. I... in terms similar to the previous inquiry, look for those elements of consensus that have emerged. You've put a lot of them on the table. He's started the interrogation with regard to the Jewish Conca Plate, huh? That's what we're doing at this point in time, and that's why we're doing more because we've got a lot on top of it, there's a decision that's taken; but for another band, we've got two things that, in the sense that it did before, make us feel relatively comfortable. First, that there has been a lot of good work done from the base of the scientific community; that when we have been able to define, for example, the Commission for the Sustainability of the Lands of the Jews, the environment, we have done it with very solid plans. We may not have agreed on this point, and we may have come to conclusions that were not very solvent, but they are. And this gives us a lot of confidence and a very broad level of complicity with the Water Framework Directive and with what the European Commission tells us. And so, in this sense, this complicity will be perfectly reflected in the diluns you see when representatives of the European Parliament of the Committee on Petitions come; we speak the same language. And that, from this perspective, therefore, gives us a lot of room for manoeuvre. We have this feta base. And, on the other hand, the government of Catalonia has also worked not only with regard to the whole of the world, but also with regard to other things that they have to see, and you have spoken about the Natura 2000 race. We've done our dues. And so we transferred them the other day to the Platform in Defense of the Jews and to the territories. We have these management plans, we have them approved and we have them endorsed by the same European Commission. We got it. And, therefore, what it's all about – and this is the strategy that President Puigdemont's government has incorporated – to grab all these elements and focus them on the managed content that we're setting up at these times and to make clear what the combat scheme is, to say the least, in relation to this new offensive of the Hydrological Plate, of the Conca Plate. And you also talked about another topic, which is seeking complicity from the rest of the State. And we'll look for them, these levels of complicity, the rest of the state. He was talking concretely about Navarre, and Navarre is doing different things. So we, in this sense, see that only we will not get out of it, and, therefore, we must be able to weave these elements of complicity to other territories, establishing common bases. On the issue of regadius, there must be an important internal debate in the country. And, therefore, the first thing we have done is: the Department of Lands and Sustainability and the Department of Agriculture, we have taken care of ourselves and we have... What we have set up is that there is a great debate about the country around this issue, because if we start to generate a dynamic of confrontation between territories we will not get out of it, from the very beginning – we will not get out of it. And as we are very convinced that it is perfectly possible to reconcile the pretensions, the intentions, the uses in relation to water management, we want to do it and we want to do it on the ground. And what we're asking is that you can help us. With the historical culture that you have... – the people of Podemos are new in this Parliament, but the people of Initiative have a very long trajectory – therefore, based on these elements, to be able to do things folded. Therefore, first idea: we have done and consider, modestly, that we have done well, and we have agreed with the territory and seeking this level of coincidence, of synchrony with what the European Union is proposing to us. We speak the same language and what we see is that the National Water Council is speaking with a completely different word: water marketing, favors. We're talking in those terms. And, therefore, this is so subjective, so steamy, so arbitrary that we believe that where the general interest prevails, that in a very good measure it is in what defence, in this concrete case, the Directorate-General for the Environment to the European Commission, it seems to me that we can get out and we can get out well. He was talking about our plan, the internal plan, huh? , the District Management Board of the Catalonia River Basin, this is the technical detail. We, at this time – and you have explained this – have the process and what we wanted to do is make a very operational scheme. That is to say, in the first version that was done in the previous period what is said is that there were practically unlimited resources to be able to pull it forward: if there was an additional third arrangement, if there were structural foundations, everything was practically put in place. And at these moments, we've been looking at, let's just say, who are the priorities we're looking at, huh? From this perspective, he already knows the layout, the bet for desalinization, for the recovery of aquifers, for reuse, for the increase of estalvi on the part of the citizen... These are the bases, and what we need to be covers is to deepen into all and each of these elements. And, therefore, what we want is, on the basis of the water channel, to make a set of actions, investments, which are serious, which are solid, and which are environmentally sustainable and economically sustainable. That's the scheme. Therefore, a plan that is realistic, feasible, self-financing and, above all, let's say, based on maximum transparency criteria. I want to highlight an element that is little known, but Transparency International, at the time of qualifying the various water agencies that act in the Spanish State – which seems to me to be fifteen – has placed in third position, from a point of view of transparency parameters, the Catalan Agency of Water. Or we do this with all these elements, taking away the opacity that we are aiming for, in relation to CHE, the Jewish Hydrographic Confederation, and pointing out in relation to the National Water Council, or it will be very difficult for us to get out. You made one last reference, about... – and the MP Saladié also did it, even though in a more tangential way – about the direct or indirect management of a public good, of a public appeal that is water, and in relation to the management of Aigues Ter Llobregat. I just want to remember two elements. The first, the level of debt held by Aigues Ter Llobregat made it impossible to manage it, untenable for a government that could not be indebted more, that could not cope with debt resorting to more debt. We had no room for manoeuvre – we didn't have it – and, therefore, some of the decisions that had to be made, had to be taken because the situation was practically collapsing with the Catalan Water Agency and with regard to Aigües Ter Llobregat. And when decisions are taken, they are not, let's say, ideologically or simply for a cosmic element of chance, no, no: answer to a specific reason. And, for another band, or we were able to look for mechanisms– and in this case, I'm talking about a Member of Junts for the Yes that comes from the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia –, or we did this option or we couldn't get out of it, from a point of view to get resources to avoid social-based shortcuts, because access to the bench was absolutely closed. There was no FLA, then, and therefore we were looking for this mechanism not intended – not intended –..., that is, in terms of a healthy economy and healthy finances..., do you think we would have sorted this option? No, we didn't. But now, what gives us this option? It allows us, moreover, to make investments that with strictly direct presuppositions resources we could not do. And, therefore, to bring up to date the Aigues Ter Llobregat network, we need additional resources. And he gave her these additional resources to be able to do so. But, I insist, with different conditions, and this is the writing we did together for the Yes and the Cup, would we be willing to keep this? Home, we wouldn't have thought of it, but at these times we have to be able to take advantage of it and we can do better actions from the network that, otherwise, with strictly public resources, with direct management, we couldn't do. And, therefore, from this perspective, this indirect management – which does not privatize – because if we do not go to see where we govern, right? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't say no. When the waste is managed, in the vast majority of municipalities, which is less concessional to Terrassa, which is public, we are privatizing. No, we're not privatizing at all. We can't do these performances. And this is a debate that we need to set up in a very serene and unprejudiced way of thinking, which is legitimate, but it is legitimate, which seems to me that they will not allow us to enter into the consensus that we would need. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.204.0	The word "Mrs. Hortênsia Grau".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.205.0	Thank you, President. This ideological openings, Councillor Rull, must be a mark of the Department of Territories and Sustainability and that you inherited from Councillor Vila, because whenever they raised water fears, they tried to plant them in the most technical way or with ciphers, always came out ideological apriorism. Look, I'm not going to go into ATLL's privatization because, besides, there's a proposal from the law, we've been arguing since it happened, and I, like that said, have come to talk about my book, huh? , which is the Management Board of the Catalonia River Basin District, which is still in allegation period, which, moreover, you know that both Ecologists in Action and Water is Life have presented a whole series of allegations ; and other entities, the Third Party Defense Group, which go in line with what I was exposing and which I will now finish exposing and which, for me, will be very important in the young person following this inquiry to know what the Government's decision is, if I kept some of the proposals here or change. Because that will depend on water management policy. And look, when I told him before about the clean environment, he said: "If you are so clear in the case of the Jew, that the Mark Directive says that the clean environment must be respected, that it must be guaranteed, the same must be clear in the case of internal shells. And now you know it's not happening. And it's not happening, why? Because they are extracting more fully from both the Ter and the Llobregat because they are not applying the measures of the Pla de gestion that have been approved, meaning to use more desalinated water from the Tordera and the Prat de Llobregat. Why? Because this increases costs, and these companies are not available, all of which pushed the water channel. What's going on here? Nor is it as a very exceptional measure the issue of recovering water from the tertiary purification system, which, moreover, is proving that it is high quality water and that it could be placed at the head of the river. Or the topic of exploitation of aquifers. Therefore, we are systematically not fulfilling the theme of the whole, and, moreover, it is that I look, in the case of the water of the Ter, that the gironi in fan so much flag, the compromise was that 2015 is stayed in 115 cubic meters. Turns out they're transceivering from 163 to 200 cubic feet. So, counselor, I'm not saying that. They are data from the ACA, which, precisely, with which it is transparent, so we can access all the documentation it has. So what I'm saying is: they'll change the orientation of this internal shell management plan incorporating the theme of desalination; they'll continue to maintain the policies of estalvi, efficiency, water recovery; they'll have a new desalinator in Cubelles, as was already planned for the Foix desalinator? That is to say, a whole series of questions that they do is manage, not from demand, but manage what is the new water culture. And, therefore, it does not seem to me that this plan incorporates these principles of the new water culture. And you said, "We can't, it's an economic issue. Listen, it's an economic issue where, as always, political decisions have been taken that have been taken to heal the debt. We've been five years in which ACA, you know, hasn't made any investments. We already said, we told the director of the ACA, we said to him, "This will cause problems, because he knows we have central Catalonia, some communities at Camp de Tarragona, Conca, Alt Camp, with problems of nitrification, with problems of contamination of terrible dusts. We have no solution to the issue of nitrates, nitrate contamination, much of Catalonia, but we do not extend vulnerable areas. But when it turns out that we're trying to fix it by putting together assumptions, trying to put in a rowing canon, which is somehow the one about the return of costs that the Water Mark Directive talks about, the whole pig farm industry lobby comes out and it's denied. And that goes into this pact..., that this pact..., of course we will have to do it, among other things, because it is a parliamentary compromise, because here, in this Parliament, during 2015, we approved a motion in which we were all going to have a debate, a national water pact, trying to agree, assemble to the same table ecologicalists, conservationists, industry, recreation, agricultural sector and so on, because it is the only way that we can get out of it, and overcome the historical picabaralles, which have not remained only of its Government, and we also suffered them during the time of the Government of Esquerra between the Department of Environment – RIP, malaurat, because it seems that we do not have it again – and the Department of Agriculture. And here we have to do a lot of pedagogy, because the page has to hear that water is a common good and that because they can hold water we all have to have access and right to water. So – I'm finished – what my group will ask you during the show will be all these questions, and I hope that there will be this change of course in the Conque Management Board. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.206.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.207.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Councillors, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Come on, you just walked in through the side door, not the back door, let's just say it. An element of cordial discrepancy. He said: "Environmental department we don't have. And as long as we have, environmental department: I am the owner of the Department of Land and Sustainability, which is the environmental department of the Government. And, therefore, we believe that the performance of the environmental department is more powerful incorporating all the policies of territories than without the policies of territories. Therefore, this is an extraordinaryly coherent plantation. Before the Member of Parliament Saladié made reference to his intervention, he began for the territorial order. Environmental policies, taking into account the territorial order of the territory, are much more powerful and connect much more and have more capacity to inflate and transform the country. And, therefore, in this I will be very strong: from the environmental department we have, and we have one very powerful, which is the Department of Land and Sustainability. You will already see the appearance that we will start just for the environmental part, which is the one that will give coherence to all the actions. In fact, sustainable mobility policies have a meaning in the measure that responds to a conception, let's say, of sustainability. A pair or three of questions. I also want to thank the Environment Secretary and the Director of the Water Agency, who accompany us. The director of the Catalan Agency of Water, now via WhatsApp, can say so, I say..., and contradicts me one of the elements that you have raised during this inquiry and that you would not want to let go long. The District Plate of the inner shells has a 60_per_cent more maintenance cabals than the former plate, which simply did not have – than the former plate, which simply did not have. And the papers? The paper can handle everything. That is to say, we could make a management plan, a conca plan with a forecast like the previous one, of 6,000_million euros, with a duration of six years, which meant investing for thirty years 200_million euros. That knows it's impossible. So what we want is to come up with a proposal that is viable, that is credible, because we can fool ourselves and we can make a plan with some of the elements, not say that you have made it now, but that someone could have the temperament to lay on the table; so we would be very happy, we would approve a large management plan, but it would simply be inapplicable. The current revision, therefore, of the Pla de gestion de l'districte de conca fluvielle de Catalunya provides for the reflection of the measures related to the management of demand and water resources in order to guarantee the long-term availability of water from Catalonia. It does not contemplate any transfer, but it does refer to the need for us water resources to the internal shells that still suffer from a water deficit of about sixty hectometres per year. And this is the basic element: do we recognize that there has been a water shortage or do we not recognize it; very well, how do we face it? This deficiency has been reduced thanks to the increase in water use. In Catalonia, water consumption per head is one of the lowest in Europe, and in the metropolitan area perhaps one of the lowest in Europe. This deficiency has been reduced, therefore, thanks to the increase in water use by the city, to new infrastructures built from the last episode of the same year 2008, to desalinators, to the recovery of aquifers or to the reuse of water. These are the four columns on which we are working. You have raised the issue of desalinizers: to the Tordera to expand its capacity. Obviously we have to move and we have to move in these settings. And then again, it's true, you've identified it, and here we have a little bit of parliamentary expression, but we have a lot of work to do with nitrate contamination. Perhaps this is the hardest problem we have today at the level of security in relation to water in the country. That's the big problem we have with the country today, and so it's cross-cutting, grabbing the money and making decisions. And we are convinced that the Members of this House will be very aware of what we are talking about, the transcendence of this problem, and that we will be able to make the decisions that the country needs in this area. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.208.0	The new item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on the concerted schools presented by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Asking the Government about the concerted schools]] [[300-00004/11]] Té la parula la meñora María José García Cuevas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.209.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, first of all, I congratulate you and wish you every success and every success. Our educational model, as we defend from the People's Party, is based on freedom; the freedom of education enshrined in our Constitution, article 27, and freedom, too, to implement different educational projects that reflect the plurality, the richness of society, which is what is promoted and protected in the most democratically advanced societies. And the second axis of freedom: freedom for families, to choose the educational model that best fits their beliefs, values, principles or priorities. Because parents are responsible for the education of their children and children are the holders of the right to quality education and equal access. And the parents are the guardians of the children, not the Administration. Therefore, it is the parents who must be able to choose the model, the educational project that guarantees these rights to their children within the framework of freedom, plurality and equality that must be guaranteed by the Administration. This is also laid down in our Statute of Autonomy in Article 21: Freedom of education and the right of parents to choose, which are also proclaimed in the Declaration of Human Rights, Article 26, as well as from the European Parliament, in the Declaration of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, Article 16. And this is the legal basis that reflects only the aspiration of our society to realize itself as an advanced society, which protects and promotes individual freedom, plurality and respect for diversity. And on the basis of all these principles, the Government of the Generalitat, in the Law of Education of Catalonia, was entrusted with the responsibility of deploying the Servei d'Educació of Catalonia, consisting of sustained centers, totally or partially, with public funds, of public or private ownership, under the criteria of quality, equality and economic sufficiency. We talk, therefore, of a mixed network, with a variety of educational projects, some public, others private initiative, to satisfy the demands of society, but all of them centers that provide a public service. For this reason, and in the case of centres of private initiative, article 42 of the law provides for the model of educational concert, which in fact already operated with full legal coverage since the year 85 in Spain by the LODE, by Felipe González ; model of concert that was ratified in 2006 with the Organic Law of Education, also socialist. It was even foreseen in the LEC that articles 198, 200 and the fourth additional provision, that the concert could also extend to non-compulsory teachings such as the first cycle of childhood education or high school or FP. Because without a plural and sufficient supply, according to the demands of society, it would be impossible for families to effectively exercise their right to choose the educational project of their children. And only by guaranteeing public funding for a sufficient number of educational projects, plural and varied, will we be able to guarantee equal opportunities in access to the educational project that each family wants to choose. Because without public funding, a good number of all these educational and pedagogical initiatives would be vetoed for families with fewer resources, and freedom of choice would be subject to rent. And that would be segregating and discriminating. Because, with educational concerts, the Administration is helping families economically, who are thus more free to choose a center or other center based on their educational priorities and not on their economic constraints. Therefore, the mixed model of public and private centres, all supported by public funds, guarantees us plurality, wealth, freedom and greater equality of opportunity, both in accessing and acquiring a certain training according to the principles of each family. In short, respect for individual rights and freedoms, which is the most democratically mature level that always places the individual ahead without losing sight of the general interest. Because the existence of a mixed network is also a matter of general interest. If we start from the fact that education must aim for excellence, to train people who are critical and free, prepared in skills, who when they pass through the education system have more opportunities, we have to recognize the success that these projects are having. Because we have to aim for the results of the education system, we look at them from the point of view of external tests in competition such as PISA or others, school success, access to post-compulsory studies, employability or any objective factor, improve and put our children at levels consistent with the degree of development of our society. Unfortunately, in Spain as a whole, and also in Catalonia, we are far from these levels of excellence, but it is an objective fact that the contribution of the concerted centres to the model as a whole is not being negative. The results obtained by students attending concerted schools, for example in PISA tests, or their rate of entry into post-compulsory studies, we cannot conclude anything else but they are educational projects that are not being bad, on the contrary: on average they are providing quality to the system, thus collaborating with the general interest of society, which is investing in forming ready generations that can contribute and return to society part of what we have given them. Nor on the economic side can we say that the existence of a mixed network is damaging the Education Service of Catalonia because, considering the total cost of the educational service, the concerts reduce the system as a whole. Because although it is very difficult to find reliable and complete information, in relation to the cost of the public square, what we do know is what costs the Administration the concerts and the number of children attending these schools, and we can deduce from here the public cost of these schoolings in concerted schools. And what we can say is that if these students all had to go to public schools, the cost to the administration would be higher than the cost of the concert, on average and about 60_percent more. To quote some figures, if we take as the average cost of the public square in Catalonia the data that the councillor provided to the ministry for the application of the thirty-eighth additional provision of the LOMCE, which is 6,023_euros, and we take the average amount of the concert module, the average cost for the Generalitat of a concerted square would be around, approximately 3,600_euros. A difference that has a part of justification, perhaps, for the different management, but that is also justified because the concerts strictly cover teaching staff and partly general expenses. There is another portion of administrative costs, maintenance, replacements, support staff and sixth hour that are covered with contributions from parents. And it is true that parents in these concerted schools pay for activities that are not in the public, such as the sixth hour. But it is also true that concerts are not enough today to guarantee the freeness of this education as provided for in the law. These private contributions, together with the tradition and presence of concerted education in Catalonia, especially in the province of Barcelona, where it hosts 60_percent of students, significantly increase and improve the total educational expenditure in Catalonia as a percentage of GDP. Because if we consider only public expenditure on education in Catalonia as a percentage of GDP, we are behind Spain. In other words, the existence of a mixed system increases the total resources of the system, also releasing resources for public education. Because it must be borne in mind that if all these children, who are entitled to a place, had to go to school in the public system because there was no concerted one, the public would collapse, due to a shortage of places and also of resources. This is the mixed model that we from the PP defend without nuances, and we would now like to know your opinion, counsel, on these principles that we have been exposing. And also his Government's commitment to the stability, guarantee and economic sufficiency of the concert model. Because in our group we are concerned about the political context in which this legislature is going to develop, about the backpacks and tolls with which you begin to govern. A government where Esquerra has replaced Unió, which does not stop us from worrying about a contribution of instability and insecurity, but is that you have also agreed with a group openly opposed to the freedom of education, contrary to the right of parents to choose and even contrary to private initiative. We already know that point 19 of the government agreement with the UPC was withdrawn in extremis, and you already know the tension that families experienced those days. They will understand that we are concerned about their pact with the CUP, because it is a real sword of Damocles for families. Because it must be borne in mind that the UPC in education has two priorities – and here it is in its document of Posem fil a l'agulla –: one, repeal the decree of staff, which we agree there; and the second, eliminate the concerts. See if there are problems and priorities in education, and the CUP chooses concerts as a battle horse. Therefore, we have explained here our vision of the mixed, public and concerted educational model, our reasons for supporting it and our commitment to its maintenance, stability and sufficiency. We would now like to know the position of the council and, above all, whether the families who are in concerted centres can be calm, if they have their firm commitment, as these parents already know that they do have ours. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.210.0	There's the word the Teaching Counselor, Mrs. Meritxell Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.211.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen..., in the first place, Congresswoman Cuevas, thank you, therefore, for the happiness you have given me for my appointment, and, in any case, for the question you have asked me, to say: "Listen to me, do you guarantee to the parents of the school that there is no danger? Look, I think if anyone in this country, in the last few years, tries to do for the citizen that all this process we've started will lead us to a thousand and one plagues, it's just the People's Party. Look, I followed with great attention the speech you made, especially for the times that the Catalonian Education Law has been named, when the People's Party did not support the Catalonian Education Law. As you have rightly said, the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy, in its article 21, which I will not repeat, because you have already read it to us, which was done to collect the tradition, history and innovation inherent in the Catalan education system. As you know, from time to time, at a time when education – and we talk about many years ago – was just, or at least a few lucky ones that could be paid for, or, for many years, in a French school model, Catalonia has always had a number of educational references of innovation and quality educational references, both social initiations, such as social entities, such as master's collections, such as peer collections that have entrusted and configured this system, this catal model of success. That's exactly what we collected in the Autonomous State of Catalonia. And, in order to develop this forecast of the Autonomous State of Catalonia, what we did was, at the LEC, to develop the Education Service of Catalonia. I insist on this education law because you, apart from asking us about the concerted school, have been introducing other concepts, such as the diversity of educational projects, etc. Justly, one of the pillars of Catalonia's Education Law is the educational projects, it's the autonomy of centres, it's the participation of the educational community, it's the evaluation of the system for the better part of the system itself, aspects that LOMCE, quite rightly, has deprived us of. I think about the participation of the educational community, and other points. Just to recognize this diversity of models, what we have established is the model of public interest, which is concrete in this Education Service of Catalonia, which, as you have said, according to the centers, supported with public foundations, public centers and private supported with public foundations. And what the Education Service of Catalonia guarantees are these rights that you named. There are other models, that's right. There are other autonomous communities that have aspired to models where the private sector has a pes. Just to guarantee equality of opportunity, to guarantee a system of equity, to guarantee to the couple this opportunity to have a quality education in conditions of equality, in Catalonia we have created the Education Service of Catalonia. This education service requires, at all centres, a whole series of requirements that now, in any case, I don't want to go in – I'll have time to make the answer. This model that you have here has defended us and that, I insist, the moment this Parliament raised it, the People's Party voted against it, is exactly what we will continue to maintain. You've talked about these assumptions with these parliamentary agreements. I invite you to read all parliamentary agreements. The parliamentary agreement to appoint the President of the Government of Catalonia had five points, five points clearly, and I have not been able to see it at all, nor will you be able to find it. Therefore, I invite you to read all these points again. Miri, the Law of Education of Catalonia recognizes that, regardless of the title, those centers that maintain a whole series of requests to obtain the concert are publicly funded. The ordinary model of financing with public resources of these concerted centers is, precisely, the educational concert, as defined in all regulation and the Law of Education of Catalonia. And the department, in its educational programming, has to take into account both public and concerted centres. I believe that a great uncertainty of Catalonia's Education Law is, no longer to speak of a double network, but to speak of a single system, precisely, this Education Servant of Catalonia, and, from here, we do the programming, we pre-register, we do all the educational actions. The concerts must establish all basic conditions, which are also established in the organic laws, and it is the Government of the Government of Catalonia that regulates this concertation procedure by Regulation. Who are the requirements to be met? So as simple as meeting the need for schooling, this means having a half of the pupils per school unit not less than that determined by the Department of Education for each area, and educating the students with habitual residence in that municipality or the educational area that the department also provides. And from here, it also gives standards for concertation. Jo, tell him this... I think this is because it's not one because it exists in society, honestly. It's one because you want to move. Catalunya has a success model. Catalonia... – you have made a reference from which I will also give you the data – it is not certain that we are on top of the educational objectives of Europe. And that doesn't do the system any good. That is to say, the schools of this country, all, have made a great effort to, despite the difficulties we have had in these past years, increase the educational results. Now, more than a year ago, we have a school failure that is located at European level. Now, more than ever, we have a school drop-out that is already lying on the Europe 2020 target. We have already achieved the results of Europe 2020 as a result of school failure. Therefore, it is not certain that the results of the Catalan education system are still far from what Europe expects. And that's what I'm saying because, sometimes, you want to introduce into this debate that, as our model is particular and as our model is based on a Catalan model in language and content, that makes the educational outcomes low. That's not true, and I think it was the place to highlight the work that the educational centers are doing to improve these results. There's also a few other points you're referring to that I'm a little worried about. You said: "This model guarantees free access to these teachings. And as long as it guarantees free access, but for the effort made by the Government of Catalonia to finance it. Because, since 2010, which was the last government Zapatero, and from there, the governments of the Popular Party, Madrid, the Spanish Congress..., the government of Madrid has stopped paying all the tuition from three to six years. That is to say, the Government of Catalonia has stopped all the money that it supposes to school the children of P3, P4 and P5. Therefore, if something is perilous, or would cause perilous, gratuitousness, it has not followed the Government of Catalonia, which has made a great effort because it was free, and yes the Spanish Government, which has not continued to pay what it is obliged to pay, which is this education to children and primary school. If you... I think this incongruity... [[Funnel veils]] No, I'm not saying that for you, but there's some words coming out. That is to say, they are giving us an education model, quality, equal conditions, free access; for one band, they don't support Catalonia's Education Law, and for the other, they approve of a law, a LOMCE, in Madrid, which is exactly what it does to destroy this system. So, there's no such thing as a pair. It's you, anyway, who are generating this by. This model is fully integrated and guarantees thanks to the Catalonian Education Law and the Catalonian State of Autonomy, and they must continue to have the tranquility that will follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.212.0	The word "Madam Maria José García Cuevas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.213.0	Thank you, President. Honourable counselor, well, you haven't answered me whether families can be quiet. I, in this second part, am going to go into more specific questions for you to know your opinion, since from the macro it has mixed very different things that did not come to the point, from my point of view. First of all: payment for concerts. We know that last year there were accumulated delays of four months in the payment of operating expenses modules, and that now the delays are two months because it is the FLA that is paying them. But it is that this FLA is extraordinary, it is 3,000_million_of_euro extraordinary that Catalonia has received because they were not used in the rest of Spain. The question is: Can you guarantee the centers that payments will be made without delay? Second: the amount of the concerts. The teachers at the conference have lower salaries and we have already explained that the operating modules do not cover all the costs of the centre. The questions are: Since the ministry sets minimum modules, do you intend to equate them to the level of other autonomous communities? Are the teachers'salaries going to be equal to that of the public? Will you finally calculate the actual cost of the school square to ensure the sufficiency of the concert? A study, by the way, that has been claimed by the sector for years. Another related question: will you guarantee the teachers of the concerted payment the return of the extra payments, all three, under the same conditions as the officials? We understand that it would be logical, in addition to fair, because they were treated as officials when cutting. And, in this area, are they going to recover the loyalty prizes? Can you explain why they were withdrawn? We believe that the Government in 2012 cut teachers' acquired rights by applying a rule that was harmful to them and retroactively, which we see neither fair nor defensible. On the subject of templates, you know that they are absolutely insufficient, especially in high school, and due to the latest curriculum changes. Will you study the employer's proposal to update them? Another historic demand is the launch of a tripartite table – Administration, employers, trade unions – which involves all parties and promotes social dialogue. How do you feel about it? Entering the planning, there is the issue of the pre-registration-zone-demand axis. If we want to guarantee the freedom of families, the offer should be in line with demand and not the other way around. The council should plan the places, after consultation with the parents, which should not be limited, we understand, to the environment of their home to choose a school. We are seeing an important transfer of students from the public to the concertate, especially in the primary to first step of the ESO. And in many cases, because of the compact schedule that many institutes apply and that creates problems of reconciliation and logistics to many families. You should, we believe, ask the families, know the real demand and so the ratios could be adequate and homogeneous, and the concert modules, too, sufficient. The demographic decline and increase of students in the ESO should also be considered, when fixing the students per line to access the concert, because the loss of lines increases the ratios, damages the quality of the education and, above all, harms the smaller schools, which have less capacity to absorb these changes. In this line we know that the last course withdrew concerts once the course began, which caused job instability and even many families had to change their children from school. We have no data on this course and ask: Can you tell us if this has been repeated? Can you tell us what steps were taken to avoid it? And with regard to post-compulsory teachings, very few centers have achieved the concert, in baccalaureate it is only estimated that a 20-25_per_cent and with a great territorial inequality, which is an aggravation compared with the gratuitousness of this stage in public centers. Do you plan to increase these concerts so that families are not discriminated against for rent? We are also concerned about uncoordinated FP cycles. We believe... – it is complex, but a pointer – we believe that new centres or new units should be given access. Do you share it? Finally, we believe that special educational needs and specific educational needs should be financed by 100 per cent. We do not know children with special educational needs who are enrolled in the school because there is no official data. What we do know is that the concertee is fulfilling her role as an inclusive school but without the necessary resources. Some concerted centers are opening USEE that you authorize but do not fund. We would also like to know the outcome of the grant scheme which replaced the programme contracts. We believe that it was insufficient, because there is a figure, which is: of the 200 centres that requested it, only 135 stayed out of aid. In addition to the administrative burden on these schools. In short, Commissioner, many issues have been raised, not all of which we have been able to put forward. We look forward to your position and your concrete responses. And know that to strengthen and guarantee our mixed model of education, financed with public funds, you can count on us, as the thousands of families who value the freedom to choose between different models that respect and reflect the plurality and richness of our society already know. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.214.0	There's the word the Teaching Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.215.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, in this second part you have basically focused your intervention in the economic sphere. I answered again, because I had already answered the question at the beginning; it is to say: "Can the couples of the school be quiet? Don't worry, don't worry. I mean, right now they've had to have, they don't have a... they don't have a... they don't have a negit. And, if not, the one to do, and I invite her– and, if not, I can do it myself – to read, precisely, the first point of our election program, which said: "The maintenance and application and deployment of the LEC. That's just it: the maintenance and application of the LEC. And that's what's been agreed. And in the parliamentary agreements, if you read the five points, at the moment you talk about the school concluded. Nor, even..., and now I'm talking about a document that's not ours, but if it has the ability – that I see that it has – to read the document that he taught us, that it was the CUP, there it also talked about the concerted school. But, well, in this second I did see him, in the People's Party, more concerned about the issue of finance... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, he talks about education and he talks about different points, and there's been different versions, huh? I mean, in case we don't have it back... because obviously this was a negotiation document and as in all of the negotiations, so things are evolving. Therefore, it may be an older version, but in the final version this is not there. [[Widow's remorse.]] There have been statements, even so, in this sense. But, well, in this second part of the day he asked me many questions, which I think I will not have time to answer, but in any case we will have other opportunities, so to do so; above all, he said "the last payment of the concerts, "the import of the concerts, "the increment of the modules, "the rewards of fidelity... Miri, these last years, the Generalitat de Catalunya has suffered such an offence that it has had to be re-established..., or that the citizens, above all, have seen themselves re-established in those policies that the different departments were due to the end. Therefore, what the People's Party is asking is that if they come here asking for increases in the budget, what they have to do, asking their counterparts in Madrid, it is precisely that they increase the financing that this Government has. Because if we haven't been able to do a lot of the things we've done, it's precisely because of the weakness that this country has and the deal that I'm talking about. You were talking about nominees. Miri, the same sacrifice we had to ask the teachers of the public that we asked the teachers of the concert. And you know that in this country, so, obviously, teachers have been able to charge each month, but asking for a sacrifice. The teachers of the public school have also seen their salaries diminished, and their hours increased; therefore, the difference that you say is small. And it's no less because we've had more money, only because everyone has made a sacrifice, but the payment has been guaranteed, as they may have commented. You were talking about insufficient seedlings. Home, if anything has not allowed us to make an increase in seedlings, they are precisely the royal decrees that have emerged from the Spanish government preventing them from growing in certain areas. Now I think of the evil that the royal decree of substitutions has done, and that has not been the decision of this government or of the previous governments, but it was the impositions that came from the government of the State. You also talked about programming. Look, programming is a key tool of the education system, and precisely programming is taken into account by the Education Service of Catalonia. And you know – and all of you know this – that Catalonia has a birth problem; a birth problem that causes us to grow, in change, secondary education. And we always program taking into account the Education Service of Catalonia. As long as I'm short of time, just insist on your question. You'll read it again and you won't find any of this government's documents where you see this supposed because they say it exists, that I'm already telling you it doesn't exist. That is to say, this government has been compromised, and the president said at the first session that he had invested, to maintain and deploy the LEC, a law that if today they did not defend in so many points, that we would appreciate it being reconsidered in that appeal that went, precisely, to the Law of Education of Catalonia and that insisted on its Spanish counterparts that reconsidered a law that does not take into account many of the elements of the better part of the system that we have introduced, precisely, in the Law of Education of Catalonia. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.216.0	The aim of the agenda is to ask the Government about solidarity, equality and unity among all Spaniards, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[He asked the government about solidarity, equality and union among all Spaniards]] [[300-00005/11]] The word "Mr. Fernando de Páramo".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.217.0	Well, thank you, Madam President. MPs, MPs, members of the government and..., councillor, today we have spoken, this parliamentary group, the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans has talked about issues of equality, we have talked about finance, we have also talked about occupation, we have talked about industry, we have talked about many issues that concern Catalans, but we also need to talk about a topic that you have placed, you have placed on the political scene with a very great importance, as is the theme of this independence challenge. I will begin with a phrase that John Fitzgerald Kennedy said, that democracy is a superior form of government because it is based on respect for man and respect for people. And that's democracy, that's respect for people, that's respect for Catalans, most Catalans. I would like to remind you that on 27 September, the majority of the Catalans, the majority of the people of Catalonia, this 52_percent of the Catalans, voted in favour of Catalonia, voted in favour of Spain and voted in favour of the European Union. My first question, Counselor Munté: will you respect this majority of Catalans? Will they continue to speak of a democratic mandate, when this democratic mandate is a communicative formula that... I congratulate them, but that does not have the recovery of the majority of Catalans and the majority of the citizens of Catalonia? What's more important, as John Fitzgerald Kennedy said, people, democracy or is more important a project that you have, legitimately, but that we believe..., and, as the polls say, doesn't have the recovery of most Catalans? I am convinced that with this parliamentary group and with other groups in this Parliament we can agree and we can find points in which we would agree that there are things that do not work in Spain. I agree, there are things that don't work either in the government and there are things that have been done very badly. I'm not convinced, and I share it. In fact, I think it's one of the most important issues that many people, legitimately also, have returned or added, have engaged in the independence project. Because there are things that don't work, that embarrass. It also happens to me, but I think that the solution – and we believe from our group – to all these problems that Spain has is not to break Spain, it is to reform it. We'll propose, we'll make proposals. We will bring to this Parliament reforms, reforms and more reforms. You're not; you're very good with this scener. They have lived together in a very peaceful way during these years with the People's Party and the Socialist Party, they have come to terms with these parties, they have rejected pardons, they have rejected a very comfortable policy. We've seen it with Mr. Pujol. They have also had a very comfortable stage in the matter of assumptions. They voted assumptions with the People's Party, with other parties also in Madrid. But we believe that this new political stage needs reforms. You don't; you think that the solution is to break, that the solution is to close more Catalonia, and we believe that the solution is to modernize it, that the solution is to make reforms and reforms. We want to participate in these reforms because the Catalans have always participated in the most important reforms we have experienced in this land; we have always been protagonists, protagonists in the first person, never liked us that others do politics for us. We like to be political, Catalan; from the principles, from the constitutionalism, from the 1812 the Catalans we participated in the Corts de Cadis. We also did so in the Transition; Catalan policies were very important because this process is produced – in this case, it was a constitutional democratic process. And also, of course, in other stages of our history. We also lived here, in Barcelona, in September 1978 with the vote of the Constitution, on Catalonia, where Barcelona was one of the territories, was one of the cities with the most participation, with the most constitutional vocation. The Catalans, as I said, have always participated, because we like to do politics. On the other hand, unfortunately, this government is against the essence of this Catalan policy, which is implication, which is modernity, which is never to store us, always to give face at important times. Finally, the other day, I read a journalist who is at the opposite of my political position and my group, but including Mrs. Rahola told La Vanguardia – with whom I do not share ideas – she spoke in this line of this inaction and this little political will with phrases like: "We have nothing to do there, "we have already disconnected, and, logically, with another objective, with that of independence in this case. But it did coincide with the fact that since Catalonia there has been no real policy and no intervention in Spanish policy at this time. And I ask you, Counselor, have you disconnected from politics? Have they disconnected, too, from going to Madrid to defend the legitimate interests of all Catalans? After this 20 December, last 20 December, the elections, the Spanish voted change, but they also voted dialogue. We have found ourselves in a situation in which we have the weakest bipartisanism in the history of our democracy, and that is because of new parties that have entered the scene and have given fresh air to Spanish politics. We are certainly facing a new political stage in Spain that also has an impact, of course, on an autonomous community as important as Catalonia. Are we going to stand by and watch, the Catalans, as the most important changes in recent years take place? Are we not going to participate in a key moment of our democracy? Are we not likely to participate in the most important moment in the history of our democracy? Or will they just go there and talk about independence? Are they going to go alone to talk about independence or are they going to talk about politics? Are you going to do politics in capitals, as we have always done Catalans in this country? You not only renounce to participate in the changes, to participate in the reforms, but also do not want to be equal to the rest of the Spaniards. It was already said by a slogan that you brought in in your campaign, which said that "subsidised Spain saw at the cost of productive Catalonia. And I ask you, Counselor: do you still think that? Do you still think there are first-rate citizens and second-rate citizens in Catalonia and the rest of Spain? Will you respect the equality of all? Are we all equal before the law and equal? We do believe that, and we believe that we are all the same; in fact, we have proposed, among other things, a series of reforms to ensure that this is done, as it is to put an end to the outbursts, so that we are all the same, also before the law, so that politicians are not above the citizens. As I said, to end, in the end, the privileges in the twenty-first century and to make us all equal. Will you agree with this proposal of Citizens, to end the stumbling blocks? , where we hope to find support from all the parliamentary groups in this Parliament. And continuing with inequality. You have placed the debate of inequality on the table. I don't know if they would do the same in Barcelona, where there are inequalities between neighborhoods, where we find ourselves in some neighborhoods with huge inequalities, where even rent is six times higher in certain neighborhoods of Barcelona. Would you dare say, in such cases, that the citizens of those neighbourhoods should not be in solidarity with the rest of Barcelona's neighbourhood citizens, for example? Would they dare say that they would not be able to have a fairer city where solidarity should be one of the most important points? As you see, there is nothing more insolidary than telling the citizens that the rest of the compatriots steal from them; there is nothing more insolidary than telling the rest of the compatriots that we are more handsome, taller and better than them. Canadian writer Brian Tracy says that successful people are always looking for opportunities to help others, and unsuccessful people are always asking if "what about me? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Well, I think Catalonia is a land of work, of success, and we cannot be settled in the 'what about mine'; it is time to talk about 'what about ours'. Are you going to renounce making reforms that are good for Catalonia, of course, legitimately, but that are also good for the whole of Spain? I am thinking of measures such as the Mediterranean Corridor, which would benefit not only Catalonia, but other parts of Spain, or, for example, the system of financing the autonomous communities to guarantee social services, which would also benefit all Spaniards. Today we have heard the President say to the President of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, to Inés Arrimadas, that no, that you are not going to negotiate a better system of financing, but that what you are going to do is negotiate independence, which is much easier than negotiating a system of financing. And I refer you, too, Madam Councillor, to this question: is independence easier to achieve than to achieve improvements for all citizens? As I said, it is time for dialogue, it is time to put forward what the Catalans have asked of us in this case, and what all the Spanish voted for on 20 December. In Catalonia there is a majority, there is a democratic mandate of the majority of Catalans who have said yes to Spain, yes to Europe and yes to Catalonia. I recognize that it is difficult to dialogue with those who intend to skip the law, of course it is very difficult. Also, the same law that today was invoked by the Home Secretary himself to have an argument of value, spoke of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, the same ones that a few days ago said they were not or were not in force in Catalonia. But you have given up what we have fought many, those who have fought, especially those who come before us, because there are some who have been born in democracy, but others, like our parents or our grandparents, who have broken their faces, literally, to live in a democracy. A democracy that can be reformed, that can be improved, of course. We have come to politics to reform it. When the Catalans have gone together, when we have been united, when we have been protagonists of the most important changes in this country is when things have best come out. And I finish with one sentence: "We may think that we are before two incompatible parties, throwing them one against the other to see who is stronger and can destroy what makes us; or consider them compatible and harmonizable, creating a coordination from which both favor. It's a phrase from Francesc Cambo, of a book that's said for concord. But, well, you've given up concord, you've given up doing politics, you've given up finding agreements, you've given up finding space for everyone. And, ultimately, they have renounced equality, solidarity and the union of all Catalans. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.218.0	There's the word Constellera Neus Munté.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.219.0	Good afternoon; thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, I must admit that when I first read the title of this inquiry, I was not well aware whether it was intended for the Government of the Generality or whether it was a more direct question for the Government of the State in office, or even with retroactive effects, or from now on. I'm also saying this, because you started talking about the independence challenge and I don't know if it's an affair with Mr. Pedro Sánchez, who was talking about the fourth challenge referring to Catalonia, or what it was about. In any case, I will try, as close as possible and with the utmost respect for your position, to give an answer to this question in which you spoke, among many other things, of solidarity, equality, union; but I believe that this is another topic. And that, if we understand it in the context of Catalonia, is to put it on the table with many other concepts and with some ideas that have won over, over democratic, precisely, in the last few years. And why am I saying that? I am saying this because to start by talking about solidarity, which is a political concept, which is a financing concept, one must consider the logic of many other concepts, but above all, of facts that have happened. You, along with your intervention, have wanted to create the mental mark of the inaction of a government or some governments respecting the..., yes, indeed, reforms required by the joint state, but oblivious to the fact that political catalanism has long ago – and now emerges from what are the current and past acronyms–, political catalanism in general, has actively participated with major reforms from a democratic, political, economic, social point of view of the joint state. And we haven't done enough to require more, more reforms. I suppose the whole debate about a new model of financing or a new fiscal pact for Catalonia sounds to him precisely; a proposal endorsed, certainly, by a large social majority, very different, very cross-cutting, very plural, which obtained a round-down negative, a doorway by the Government of the People's Party. And it has put forward other examples that they have to do with the competitiveness of our companies and our productive sectors, such as the Mediterranean Corridor and many others. Let's make a reference to what these installations are, which said that they have acquired democratic in Catalonia in the past few years, and it is the evidence that we suffer from an unequal treatment, that there is a monolithic view of the State, well long – well long – of this plurinational reality that so many possess in the mouth, but then they do not respect absolutely. A state that offers the capacity of the Catalan institutions, of the Government of the Generality, but also of this Parliament, of this parliamentary chamber, of the local world, of our assemblies. A government of the State and political forces of the State that have not offered any dialect, no one, and that have been laminating our self-government, both through the economy of this economic offensive to which I will now make a brief reference, as by law, in the form of laws, in the form of remedies, of appeals in the courts and judicializing all legitimate aspiration of the people of Catalonia. We've suffered inaction in all negotiations. It is not that Catalonia has not made any proposals, it has not wanted to talk, it has not been dialogued, in fact, and it has not been negotiated; it is that the other band has had this inaction: when we talk about the transfers, I gave it before, the fiscal pact, the right to decide or, even before, when we talked about the reform of our Statute. And this contrasts with hyperactivity in competitive re-centralisation and the limitation of our self-government. Therefore, talk of solidarity, and do it the way you have done it, obviously a current model of financing that places Catalonia under the middle of waste resources. A peculiar solidarity that impoverishes those regions, those autonomous communities, as is the case with Catalonia, until now, that after its solid contribution to the conjunct of territories of the State, remains more impoverished and, therefore, with less capacity, with less muscles to give response to the needs of the citizen. I refer, in concrete terms, to the fact that Catalonia is the second autonomous community in providing tax resources to the system of autonomous financing, but in change, it draws resources in per capita discards. You're talking about solidarity, you're talking about inaction on governments, and I'm going to talk about other concepts that you've overlooked, but I think that in this first question we can afford this franchise, we don't cheat and we talk about everything. I hope that after this many more come and we have the capacity to discuss, to dialogue, and even, who knows? , to put us in agreement with some subsequent young man. But with this franchise, I'm telling you, how come you don't mention the fiscal deficit that Catalonia is suffering from? , or the legal incompliments of the Statute of Catalonia in its third additional provision or other regulations, basic laws for the welfare state? – Consteller Bassa referred to this morning when she was talking about the law's infra-financing of dependency and its effects on so many people. Therefore, we have before us a government of the State that imposed. Not trading, huh? Don't dialogue, don't discuss the deficit targets: the tax. And they're tremendously unfair. But he also has the last word for what he does to the calendar, for what he does to the effectiveness of the beasts, of the autonomous liquidity fund. This is the reality, and when we talk about solidarity we have to take into account and we have power, too, to conjugate all and every one of these elements. And this morning, in fact, you mentioned some of the issues that have taken root in the control session of the government, the first of the sessions of this legislature: occupation, industry. I add: there has also been talk of education, of social services, of housing, of infrastructure. In order to respond to all these actions, which are necessary, which have to do with people's day-to-day lives, with their patience, with their needs, and with them. But we're not talking about a finance model reform anymore. Indeed, the president of her parliamentary group, leader of the opposition, makes reference this morning to the question she posed to President Puigdemont; she said that you think that one of the reforms and betters that Spain clearly needs is a better system of financing basic services: sanitation, education, social services. Effectively; but do you know what's going on? , that we as the government have a very clear democratic mandate and this mandate is not to negotiate a better funding system, it is not this. This we have already tried, this we have put on the table, we have put forward proposals, I insist, very supportive and very consensual, with a large cross-cutting, social, political and economic majority of this country. We have a very clear democratic mandate, which is to advance towards this state, towards this independence. That you don't do them for, before the Councillor Comín – I have had occasion to feel it –: if they care about social rights, there's nothing more decisive, there's nothing more useful than being able to enjoy some tools, instruments that we don't have at these times and that actually change, they can give us the necessary strength, the necessary muscles, the freedom to order our policies and our resources to serve all these social and economic needs of citizens, businesses, the productive sectors of our entities. When you speak of solidarity, when you speak of unity of all Spaniards, obviously in whose situation Catalonia is found and we find ourselves Catalans before these legal failures, before the failures of so many and so many feelings that have recognized Catalonia's ability to manage its competitions. And that, on the other hand, there have been many and many occasions for this re-nationalizer, an offender of the Government of the State. And that has an impact, I insist, on people, on our competitiveness. You talked about infrastructure; we could also talk about the rolling stock system in Catalonia, about so many aspects that have this incidence. And a process that you consider to be illegal, to skip the law, to break the Spanish law, so, no, it's three very easy, very quick principles – I hope I can talk about it in the next round too –: legal security, democratic backing, protection of the citizens. They're all the same, they're all connected. They don't attribute, they don't do the same thing again, they don't attribute the representation of this 52_per_cent, they don't have it. Do you know where the majority is? It's in this parliamentary chamber, with an absolute majority of independent deputies and deputies who are working on these principles that are very solid, these principles... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, honourable Member. It's not again assigning this 52_per_cent, it's not his, it's not his – it's not his, it's not his. You spoke of a majority – you spoke of a majority –; the majority is in this chamber, in this parliamentary chamber, in this chamber, with, for the first time, an absolute majority, I insist, independenceist. Legal security, democratic endorsement, democratic endorsement given to us on 27 September, not to negotiate reforms, obviously to shake hands with everyone, to listen, to dialogue, to negotiate, as we have always done. Miri, the statement of 9 November, which you also mentioned, speaks of dialog – the declaration – but it is that the words and facts of this government, of its president and of all its advisers also speak of dialog, of dialog so that they can advance with this democratic mandate, that it is not a mental mark, that it is not a propaganda mark, but it is the result of the ballots, of which they spoke, of which they dictated the ballots on 27 September. He said: legal security, democratic backing and protection of the citizens, because this process does nothing but serve the citizens, the better of their social rights, the greater protection, the welfare, the quality of life of all and every person. And I hope in the near future that I can continue to respond to your concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.220.0	The word "Mr. Fernando de Páramo".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.221.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, of course, I will always put the dialogue ahead; so does my parliamentary group and so we are demonstrating it throughout Spain, not only – not only – in Catalonia, so that you can also meet with us, I am sure, meeting points. But there will be some, as you know, in which it will be very difficult. I would ask you, please, not to make democratic traps: one thing is people and another is electoral laws, which, by the way, in Catalonia we do not have. So let us not cheat on democracy. There are 52_per_cent of people – and I will repeat it every day, if necessary, in Parliament – there are 52_per_cent of Catalans who have said yes to Europe, yes to Catalonia and yes to Spain. And it is, and it's math. Do we have differences? Very many, of course; differences, all in the world, between the Socialist Party, between the People's Party and between Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. Differences? You can imagine all that we have. But that does unite us something, and it is that we, unlike you, want to remain in Spain and we want to remain in Europe. You spoke of solidarity and said it was a financial concept. Look, solidarity is a moral concept, it's not financial. Solidarity is a political concept, but above all it is a moral concept. And people, I think, and good people should be supportive. And then you also talked about the tax pact. Well, you have not understood, we were not talking about a fiscal pact, we are not going to negotiate a fiscal pact, as I said in my first intervention, to go with the 'what about mine'. We are talking about "what about us. Therefore, do not compare a fiscal pact with a reform of the financing of the autonomous communities to shield, I insist, social rights, not for you later to spend the money on other items. And then I miss some self-criticism. Man, I think you, in management, will have something to do with all the management you have done over this time in government. And then, finally, I see that you are going to resign..., we have finally seen it today with the President of the Generalitat in first person, and now also with you saying that you are not going to Madrid to ask for better funding, that you are not going to negotiate; in short, that you are going to renounce to do real politics. Well, we can already assure you that we are not going to give up doing real politics, because among other things Citizens have achieved the dream that many of you, of Convergence, had, and that is that we are the party of Catalan origin with more deputies in the Congress of Deputies. And that dream that you had to be influential in Spain, so Citizens have achieved it. And of course we will go there to propose reforms; reforms that will benefit all the autonomous communities, and of course Catalonia, in a clear way. So, I insist, it is time for dialogue but it is also time to carry out the reforms that this country needs. And we cannot allow ourselves – Catalonia and the Catalans cannot be allowed – that there is a political inaction from the Government of Catalonia, that it has renounced to do politics with capitals and that the only thing that is done is to ask for independence. Thank you, Madam President, Members, Members, Councillors. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.222.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.223.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to go on for a little while, because you haven't moved your initial positions, either. I know very well what his plans are, I know very well what the full route you presented, which the president of his parliamentary group presented the other day in the first meeting with President Puigdemont. Certainly, when I was talking about this government's dialogue, with all the parliamentary groups, you have to see with this: with interest to know the priorities of absolutely everyone, of all the groups represented in this chamber, but also of all the economic, cultural, social sectors of the country, as we are already contacting. We're talking to everybody. Constellera Borràs met the other day with the promoters of the ILP of the law of housing and energy poverty; Constellera Bassa, with the Table of the Third Social Sector. And so do all the members of this government. As it has to be, obviously. You will say to me: "As it should be, I would only miss. But I think that means there's no inaction, but the opposite. In scarcely three weeks, the will to put us quickly to the day, the will to attack all and each of the fundamental aspects that we have in front of us in this legislature. And I am convinced that we can agree, especially if we are able to separate, to leave behind differences that are, indeed, legitimate, but above all to focus on the welfare of people. In fact, in your full route you speak: « First people, « measures of protection and social emergence. I say to them: we have very limited public finances, very limited, for the arbitrary decisions that have been taken by the central government, but, nevertheless, a very clear will to prioritise social attention and the protection of people, to work for economic reactivation, for equal opportunities. Just so there are things in common. To work in the fight against corruption and for transparency, it would just be missing. We know your proposal about the flower. To say them: this is not a privilege, it is a guarantee, precisely, that public servants act as we should. You are calling for a reform of the Statute of Autonomy. We don't have that warrant either. I would like to invite you – most certainly not: I invite you – to participate in the Committee on the Study of the Process They constitute such a way as to address this and other questions, which they want to see with a new model of country where also, quite sure, that the struggle for transparency and for the absolutely correct and exemplary action of public servants is as one of the priorities to take absolutely into account. There is no inaction, there is a willingness to work, but not to overlook at any time what is the priority of this Government, which is perfectly connected and is perfectly satisfied with this social progress and this attention to the needs of people. That's why our shoc plan, without going further; a shoc plan that we are already deploying immediately, in this context of presuppositional prorogation; but we hope to have some assumptions that allow us, effectively, to work in a clear line of increment of all these actions in order to be able to respond to the compromise that we have reached with our voters. And to do so, I insist, from the dialect, from the hand, from the compliment of legality, from the compliment of this democratic mandate; bearing in mind that we now have their scales, which we have already explored, for example, many margins, from a point of view of financing, creating tax figures. What's the end of it? – I insist, in the margins of competition. So, to be able to generate tickets that are absolutely necessary to donate these social responses. But also, once again, in the front, a state that challenges, suspects, threatens. Even so, I insist that we take a whole series of actions, in which I am convinced that we can find ourselves, that they have to see with this plan of action, that they have to see with questions that affect the day-to-day lives of so many people. You've talked a lot about social rights, you've talked about people. I'm celebrating. This will be an aspect where we can certainly find ourselves, and the other day the president of your group and President Puigdemont had occasion to talk about some of these aspects; I have not mentioned them all, they are much more. But, in any case, I insist, everyone – everyone – that I have this interest in defence, in promotion, in strengthening the social rights of people in Catalonia is to look with great interest at the full road to independence and this process, eminently democratic, that we continue to do from this respect to legality, from legal certainty, but also, I have not forgotten, I am scrupulously completing this mandate that has been given to us by the ballot boxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.224.0	The next item is the question to the Government on transfer, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. [[Asking the Government about the transfer]] [[300-00006/11]] There's the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.225.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, advisors, advisors... – no, of councillor there is no –, councillor. In the first place, I wanted to give support to all the women who are patenting male insults, especially to the gangs, but not just to the gangs, also in journalistic articles. We fight for equality in all spheres and, of course, for the equality between men and women that you have to see with the fact that you can speak freely, express freely our ideas without the need for any male insult. After all, the question we present today also speaks of equality. And it is that, in recent times, the population is becoming aware of the issue of school harassment, and here in Catalonia, more specifically, following the unfortunate death of Alan, also with transphobia. Transsexuality is considered to be a rejection of the sex assigned at birth; it is not a disorder and, for this reason, the one called "gender identity disorder was eliminated from DSM-5 in 2013, which was undoubtedly a great advance. Thus, transsexuality does not have to be a problem. What is a problem is transphobia, it is homophobia and it is also school harassment. According to the 2006 study Cisneros, a 23_per_cent of school children– that is, almost one_of_each_four, is experiencing some form of school harassment. Moreover, according to this same study, 53.7_per_cent of the victims of harassment have symptoms of post-traumatic stress, such as nightmares, anxiety, insomnia and panic. In addition, a 54.8 suffer from depression. And 53_per_cent have a negative image of themselves. The defencelessness suffered by the victims is a mixture of impotence, terror and loneliness, because saying it makes them squatters and that often worsens the situation among other reasons because, on numerous occasions, adults do not know how to give them the answers they need. I have given these figures, which are from 2006, because the Cisneros study, as you know, is the most reliable and rigorous study on this subject, and their data contrast with those offered by the Department of Education of the 2011-2012 course, which spoke of a figure of 10,4_per_cent of school harassment in Catalonia, when the Cisneros study speaks of the fact that here, in Catalonia, the rate of school harassment is 22,6_per_cent. We would like to know what methodology was used to arrive at these figures and why this difference was almost double. On the other hand, harassment is also harmful to harassers, who are reinforced by their antisocial behaviors and intimidation practices, generating a negative behavior model that can replicate throughout their lives. In fact, many experts believe that this can perpetuate violence and these stalkers can, in their adulthood, bring it to work, family and neighbourhood. It is therefore important to work also with stalkers so that they are able to channel their frustrations and live relationships freely and without violence. Harassment, then, we will all agree, is a scourge against which we must fight. In the case now before us, we have two problems that must be eradicated: on the one hand, school harassment and, on the other, homophobia and transphobia. Let's see how the legislative situation is on this. As everyone knows, on October 2, 2014, in this same chamber, a law was passed to guarantee the rights of lesbians, gays, homosexuals, bisexuals, transgenderes and intersexuals, and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia. The law was received with great joy, many photos were taken, many headlines were given, but the reality is that, today, it lacks the regulatory provisions to make it effective. And, just a week ago, last Wednesday, a few meters from here, in Sant Jaume Square, there was a unitary concentration of all the LGTBI platforms to claim that, once and for all, this law will be put into effect. The same is true of the Act for the Protection of Children and Adolescents, adopted at the Congress on 22 July 2015, which recognizes that every child has the right to have his or her best interests valued, considered in all actions and decisions concerning him or her. Thus, we have laws that protect the preservation of the identity, convictions and sexual orientation and identity of minors, that is, they preserve the right to the free development of their personality. [[Pause.]] However, the reality is that the lack of provisions and budget leave them on wet paper, with which school harassment in general and homophobia and transphobia in particular, camp to their wide by the schools of Catalonia. In addition to these laws, there are two protocols of action such as, in the first place, the Protocol of Action between the Departments of Education, Social Welfare and Family, to ensure coordinated action in the situation of school accommodation, and the Protocol of Prevention, Detection, Intervention in the face of situations of hatred and discrimination. What happened? – I have two advisors side by side, I ask you both why your two departments are involved – what happened so that these protocols would fail in Alan's case? We remember that the student went through two centers, and in the two centers he had problems that could not be solved, in this case for harassment of transphobia. What steps have been taken since then? Is it assessed that these protocols are being applied in the centres? In addition, the Department of Education offers schools the project of coexistence, to work on active listening, assertiveness and empathy. How many centers are using it, Counselor? And what is the result of this? Because the information we get from the centers is that teachers have very few tools to deal with the issue of school harassment. The fact of successive cuts in teaching has not, in fact, helped teachers to continue their training. How do you plan to address these shortcomings? Have training courses been conducted since the department to prevent school harassment? If so, how many teachers have been trained on the subject? And, above all, why have they failed? On the subject of transsexuality, we find that in most cases, teachers do not know how to act. According to the Chrysallis association, it is they who deliver the protocol that they have created to the centers, because when they arrive at the schools because there is a case of transgender, the teachers recognize that they do not know what to do before these students. The case is particularly worrying because more than half of trans- and homosexual students claim to be physically and psychologically assaulted. What steps will they take to prevent this from continuing? Because given the alarming figures, it is clear that something is not being done entirely well. We, from Citizens, on the one hand, have tabled motions to strengthen the prevention and intervention programmes carried out by the different social actors, the municipalities, and, on the other, we are presenting specific motions to combat transphobia and homophobia. These motions are being approved with the support of all forces, because in cases such as the fight against homophobia and transphobia there is no sense in party disputes. In order to find truly effective solutions, we must have the consensus of LGTBI associations, school councils and different political forces. With regard to school harassment, it is not enough to present protocols simply, but it is necessary to train teachers and work with students, following examples such as the KiVa programme in Finland, which has managed to reduce school harassment by up to 79_per_cent. As far as transsexuality is concerned, it is necessary to start being part of the school agenda. Thus, from Citizens we offer knowledge, dialogue, consensus and empathy, because they are the necessary ingredients to confront school harassment by trans- and homophobia. In Citizens we are ready to lead this process and we are going to present a motion to work in depth on this issue, and to serve to transform us into a more just and equal society, because we are all different, but that should not make us unequal. Therefore, from Citizens we will use all the necessary tools to achieve equality in all areas. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.226.0	The word has the counselor, Mrs. Pains Bassa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.227.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Thank you, Members, Members, Member of Parliament Sonia, for the intervention; thank you, Councillors and Councillors, and, in particular, the Councillor of the Presidency and Spokesperson of the Government, because the reality is that it is my first question; I could not answer it if it were not for the transfer of information made to me from the last legislature. If we were to talk about the past, that what we want to talk about is the present and the future, I think that at these times I do have to thank, in the past, that this law is made, and, therefore, all the fears that have been brought from the Ancient Department Benestar and currently Treball..., we will continue – Work, Social Affairs and Families. In the first place, say that the force of Catalonia really resides in its people. We need to make sure that the citizens have all the tools – and that we would agree, Mrs. Sonia –, necessary to be able to develop all the potential, all the potential to guarantee the equal opportunities of men and women, as you refer to the principle. And thank the Members of the CUP for the act they have done for equality, because you see the issue of women. If we had known, we had added ourselves, and, if not, I believe that all of us here are for this issue, for equality, and to show our commitment in the fight, not only with equality, but against homophobia, against transphobia and against biphobia. Therefore, it extends to all the collectibles: here, that we are the ones that we will legislate; to the Government, that will do the action; but, above all, to the collectible from outside. That said, to say that in the fifteen days that we are in the Government we have met, with an institutional and salutary theme, with the Observer's representatives against Homophobia, but, more than that, today, this very late, they have a technical and working meeting to be able to develop all the themes, which I will then explain what we have made of changes from the old legislature to now. As you said, you gave support to the Law of October 10th, 11/2014, to guarantee the rights of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgenderes, intersexuals and to eradicate what we say: homophobia, biphobia and transphobia. And we pledge to deploy it in its entirety. There's a part deployed, and now I think it's time to actually deploy it. It was a pioneering law and it's true that apart from the photo that came out, there's a lot to talk about – there's a lot to talk about. Those of us who come from the street know this, that we talked about it from associations, from groups and from those who defend this equality so desired that, before it is, it can be effective, but it was not a reality. It is a law that responds to claims that for many years, therefore, has made the associated fabric. It allows conditions to be established for which all rights are real and effective, such as facilitating participation, representation in the social sphere and helping to overcome stereotypes that negatively affect the social perception of these people. It's a law that wants to avoid situations of discrimination and rape. How did it develop? So, we all know that, once this law was published, the set of departments of the Generalitat set up activities to implement the new legislation, both for what it does to organs and you serve as the diffusion of contents or training aimed at professionals. You've looked very much at your inquiry into educational issues. Here I think I should answer the education counselor. In my case, and as the coordinator and as the representative of the Directorate General of Equality that we have implemented in this new legislature and, therefore, of all the themes of LGTB, I think I need to answer it with a first intervention all the general themes. Then, if you want, we'll come up with something else. One time, therefore, published this law, it said that there was this deployment together with training for professionals; it was established one thing that is pioneering: a contact form to file complaints. Here I can tell you that, last year, 28 complaints were processed, of which 11 were crimes, 16 were administrative offences and there was 1 that was a labor offence. Obviously, they're for different channels, and I could give you some example, from cases as hard as an internet game that killed gay people to types of harassment, like a book that came to bookstores that treated homosexuality, that after the legal services got it not sold today. Therefore, concrete work, work done in relation to this topic. Last June 2015, the government launched a broadcast campaign for radios and television – so, in the most accurate communication media for people – to get to know the law, and invited all people, and especially LGBTBI, who feel their rights violated, to call 012. The same law should be used to disseminate the existence and content of the new regulatory framework. And this campaign started for the government was an important step forward. In the field of this broadcast there was a very important task for all the departments of the Generality and the institutional representatives. It was done from the Department of Interior, with a special unit of the Commissariat de Mossos d'Esquadra; it was done through a button of the ancient Enterprise and Knowledge; it was done through the web, social networks and buttonlets, because it is obvious that for many laws we do, if they do not reach the people, if we do not know them, they will not serve for nothing. Government actions therefore form part of an inter-departmental commission for the implementation of the LGTB policies, which was the coordinating body that defined the lines of action of a full-service service. Which was drafted an action plan for all these types of policies, and this plan was the law's deployment, defining the objectives. The text sets strategic lines in areas such as education, university, culture, communication, health and social action, public order and participation and solidarity; integration, also, work for all transgender people and work and occupation themes. This integral service establishes intervention protocols, ranging from protocols to municipal services, such as specialized territorial entities. Here I can say that the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families gives information and support to people seeking advice. If before the Family Department, we've taken a step forward, we've created a general direction of equality, because as you well know, women's policies take the top rank and fall from the Presidency. In our case, we believed that there were equal policies to be transversal; therefore, we have created this equal department that will carry all the policies of LGTB. I can get a little intention out of each department of what's been done. The Department of Interior counts with eighty-four groups of care to the victim with specific professionals, with a special training. The Department of Justice has a full service to care for anyone who has felt victimized. It is a multidisciplinary team formed by psychologists, lawyers, educators and social workers. The Teaching Department, which was the one you most talked about, has a proper protocol; it has a support unit for school coexistence; it offers resources for any hate behavior, and it has resources in the field of prevention; it has a guide for families – I suppose they know it – for prevention and detection of hate behavior; it has made training days; it has trained the teaching staff; it has a project of coexistence in thirty hours that has taken place in different school centres; measures of prevention and action against accommodation; protocols for prevention, detection and intervention – one, in front of situations of hatred, and here, in this course, there have been 6,161 consultations; in front of the school arrangement, the course passed between the consultation table and the consultation table. Beyond that, the cohabitation project, the family themes. And, finally, the Department of Health, which with its policy action plan has changed the name of health nets, especially so-called underage, who are minor transgender, at the request of their peers, and we also continue to advance in these rights.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.228.0	There's the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.229.0	Thank you, Counselor. He didn't really answer me very much, because he's devoted himself above all to glossing the law, which must be fantastic, there's no doubt, but, I repeat, it's not working. I mean, we can..., we can..., sing your excellencies and embroider it on a sheet or at cross point, but it's not working. Then he has also devoted himself to saying what I had already said in my speech, which are the protocols that exist and the project of coexistence, if I have been quoting them and I have given the names and everything, but the reality is that in schools, in general, they are not known. And I tell you, I have been teaching for twenty years: these protocols are not known, they are not being implemented. The Chrysallis association goes to the sites and it is they who give a protocol to the teachers, because they do not know what to do. And these training courses, then, the truth, must be, but I haven't seen them either. And in general what we see lately are online courses to be able to do the basic skills and, above all, courses that go well from the department, because in what is teacher training has been drastically cut in recent years. As I see they haven't given us much information..., because, for example, they haven't told me how many people have taken these so-called courses, when these protocols are being applied, how they are being evaluated, why they haven't given results... I repeat: Alan went through two centers; well, he actually went through three, three high school, but we have harassment complaints, two. Why did these protocols and this project not work together? Since they do not give us an answer, I will say what we are going to do from Citizens, because, as I have already said, we are willing to lead this process in view of the fact that you do not, although we hope to count on your full cooperation. We believe that schools should be spaces free of violence, and that is why we are going to present a motion to promote equality, because it is necessary to respect and ensure respect for the individual freedom of minors. To this end, we will promote a motion calling for the development of a strategy for the prevention of gender-based violence and the recognition of sexual and gender-based diversity in schools, leisure spaces and youth spaces, which is finally where children spend much of the day. We will also ask for the development of the regulations of laws 14/2010 and 11/2014, which has already explained to us the lady councillor that it is fantastic, then we are all waiting for it finally to come into operation in order to be able to guarantee the rights of the LGTBI collectives, because according to themselves – I insist, they made a concentration last week – they are not recognizing their rights. He has also spoken of that law as if there had been convictions, but either I am very wrong or by this law there has not yet been any kind of condemnation, although they do provide for it. We also think that we need to review these existing protocols, we do not say they are wrong. They are, but we have to use them; we have to offer them to schools, and above all, schools have to do their own, because if teachers are tired of one thing, they are bureaucratic, paper and more papers and more papers; if teachers are not trained and if they are not actively working with students, there is no point in bringing them a protocol and saying: "Hala, have more papers! ; is not useful, it has been shown. We too think that we must create strategies to work with transgender students, because it is clear that teachers do not know what to do before transgender students, and promote programs..., I have already mentioned, for example, KiVa – because it is the world leader – has reduced school harassment, focusing not only on harassing and harassing, but also on observers to stop them from having a passive attitude. In short, from Citizens we will push this motion to work for the equality and freedom of all minors. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.230.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.231.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I have already said in principle that if I wanted only the exhaustive teaching themes, I think he was wrong to advise when making the inquiry. Despite everything, I'll tell you a lot of things. First of all, about Alan, who you've served, we won't talk about it. We won't talk about it because you know that for a data protection issue you can't talk about it. Second, because the family, directly, has demanded that no use be made of it, and I think you know that; directly, it has demanded that they reserve the pain they have, and that, therefore, it is not about their subject. And third, because there is a subject that is being brought to justice; therefore, it does not approach us talking about this subject. And that was the subject of the last demonstration to which you referred. I also come from the world of education; I have been working as a master long years, and I can tell you that on the website of the education department, the Department of Education, you will find these courses, so you can go in and online you can go in perfectly. So don't tell us there's no training because I can tell him there's no training, so we'll pass him the link if he wants, if he can't get in any day, because he can have it. And it's true one thing, and that's what we'll give him the reason; that, you see, protocol is generic, but it does serve. And, if not, if you read the press yesterday, I would see that to a school in Cassà, from Girona's demarcation, in which they explained that, last week, with a complaint of a settlement problem, they had taken three girls out; they had carried them, therefore, because of the complaint they were making in matters of whatsapps to a student..., they were taken from the classroom, and at the same time, to the same day, and then all the press out, to the institute of each of them passed exactly the same. So, we agree on one thing: we need to review the protocol, it's true, and that's what we agree with the whole government; the specific protocol for detection and fight against transphobia in the education world is generic and has served so far, and it has served for all these cases I'm telling you. I'll put the pressure on yesterday, and you'll find it close. But not so much... and it should be much more related to settlement. Therefore, I do give you the reason to review this protocol. Let's plant it, man. And that's what a lot of institutes have done, and that's why I'm setting the example of yesterday, huh? But this punishment for bullying in a school means clearly that it's an instrument and that makes it useful. At the end of the last parliamentary term, he signed the agreement with the Observers against Homophobia. I gave it to the princes, we've already met, and it was the ones who called this event. Our people were at the demonstration. Therefore, we know the subject well; we know the subject well but we do not want to talk about the concrete subject, we want to talk about it in general. It is not a matter of settlement, the LGTB is not a matter of settlement, nor is it a subject of bullying and rather; it is a subject of all people, it is a subject of equality of everyone, among them, equal opportunities and equality in the right to work, because there are also many conflicts. Therefore, we will work with infants, we will work with young people and we will work with adults, as it should be, which is the function as the government. Also tell him that last week we planned a technical group that will coordinate all the protocols that were there so far, so that there is a good review, so that we can advance a step further, that, as I said, if this function was in the Family Department now we have moved to a general direction of equality, so we give it much more political and we can work a lot better. Therefore, we will lead, from this consultancy, all the teaching protocols, justice, interior – the specialized part – that follow the themes of LGTB, transferobia, infant mobbing..., therefore, still together. To say, lastly, with other words, that there are two words that I believe are paramount in this matter: « coincidence and « complicity. And that's what we'll have with the street entities: coincidence in the way we see the issues, in the way we diagnose them, and complicity in the resolution of all the conflicts, which, as we said before, are a few, but they could be a lot more. Therefore, it will have us at the side of everything you want to work on this subject.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-03-0801.232.0	Very nice late. The session's up.
