ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.1.0	Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. [[Discussion on the general political orientation of the Government]] [[255-00002/11]] The only point on the agenda is: debate on the general political orientation of the Government. This debate will be governed by Rules 151 and 152 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and following the sequence agreed for the Bureau and the Board of Spokespersons of 27 September. In the first place, the very honorable Mr. Carles Puigdemont, President of the Generality, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.2.0	Good morning. Many thanks, very honorable Madam President of the Parliament of Catalonia. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Councillors and Councillors, illustrious Members of Parliament, appear before all of you to account for the work we have undertaken in these first months of our term of office. A job that they intend to answer to the challenges and challenges that I exposed them in my investiture speech of the month of generation. And also, as a precept, expose them to our commitments for the next year, commitments that will have to be transposed to the assumptions that will be presented to the chamber by the vice president of the government. Today and tomorrow we are debating how we can enrich these commitments, from the contributions of the different groups and from the vote on the motions for resolutions. At the time of my intervention, I want to make a statement that I am sure that they will understand and, most likely, that they will also share: we want to make legitimate party interests compatible with the general interest. Look, as far as we know we agree, we don't have any more problems with the account and look for the whole before the confrontation. We'll find a motion of discrepancy, well legitimate from another gang and necessary, but don't be ashamed of coincidences, even though they make them coincide with political groups that we think very differently in some things that aren't minor. And that these coincidences bring us, too, but also to all groups, at least, to give an opportunity to agree. It is with this intention that I address all of you in my first debate on the general political orientation of the Government. Since the generation, the context with which we have to undertake the first passes of the legislature has changed, and, moreover, some uncertainties have been added to the world's geopolitical map. In the first place, at the global level, uncertain about the economic recovery, the conflicts that have been enquisted that cause thousands of innocent and defenceless deaths, and also what scenes, for example, will leave us the transcendental elections to the United States of November. To Europe, uncertain about how to deal with global terrorism, which continues to hit us in a bloody way on our continent; how the European Union will deal with the consequences of Brexit; how Europe renews its concern for the loss of credibility as a space of colliding, progressing and understanding; how we do so because the great countries understand that the impositions on the countries that suffer the most severely from the crisis do not lead to more patience, and how we respond to the governments of the European countries that act continuously to the founding values of the Union. And to the Spanish State: uncertainty in the provisionality of a functioning government, which at least today, at this time, continues to function, and as the implosion of the PSOE, a hegemonic party for many years and which has held the highest responsibilities in the state government, can affect the government that can be formed now, or from which it can be formed in the future, its disabled. And uncertainty, too, because of the absolute inability of political response to the challenges posed and requiring not a solution to get out of the way, which is always a bad solution, but a definitive solution. Meanwhile, in Catalonia, despite the global uncertainty that I have described, there is a government that governs, and a majority of Parliamentarians are determined to fulfill their democratic mandate to leave Catalonia at the gates of having a state that is right, if that is what most people decide at the polls. This, indeed, was last week's debate, and today I won't touch it any more. This week I want to present, as I said at the beginning, the balance of government action due to the end of the generation, and the proposals for the course that is now beginning. The government that presides starts its path with not firm, the 26th generation of this year; only fourteen days after the formation of the government – fourteen days – we approve the Bill of the Climate Change. We made this decision, beyond what was its specific content, but also because of its symbolic content and discourse. First: expresses that the problems of the world are the problems of Catalonia. Catalonia is connected to the world and benefits greatly from the opportunities generated and its internationalization, but it is also going to actively face the challenges present and of the future. This law reinforces Catalonia's international positioning in the line of what establishes the Paris Agreement on climate change. Second, the fight against climate change is not a government project, but a repte de pays. It symbolizes that all Catalan society, within the territory, is willing to work in this direction, both institutions such as the education system, social entities, universities and research centres, businesses and consumers. Third, it has a central impact on the country's prosperity and economic model. We are ahead of a great opportunity to rethink our productive economy, implementing the new technologies and digitalization to put the emphasis on added value as a key to our competitiveness and encourage the creation of good jobs. Fourth: we must also rethink our daily life from sustainability, based on more public transport and with better connectivity, and at the same time, less forced mobility, up to our building systems, for more dignified, intelligent and accessible cities. And five: climate change has an impact on the well-being of the community. The effects of global warming are holistic and are not equally distributed in society and territory. It will, therefore, prevent new forms of inequality and poverty, which can be generated by alterations, for example, in access to water, the ecosystem, infrastructures, health, migrations, etc., while ensuring that our economy functions under some nine climatic conditions and beyond. The aspects that I have just outlined to you, in a broader sense, are also the main elements that guide this government's future commitment, and agree with which I will order my intervention in two points. First point: an energy-efficient and sustainable country. Second: a country connected and balanced territorially. Third: a new model of productive economy. Fourth: a high-quality occupation that reaches everyone. Five: a country where everyone can develop their personal project. Yes: a welfare state, a real guarantee of equal opportunities. Set: a social protection network that dignifies people. Vuitè: recovery of trust in institutions that guarantee the active participation of the citizenry. New: A safe and just country, come from where you come and stay as you are. And desire: a Catalonia present and active in the world. These principles are not compartmentalized – they could be more, in fact – but they complement each dimension of the economy of society and of the institutions, but I have chosen to expose them in this way so as to order the content, which is dense and diverse, and thus facilitate the follow-up of my speech. It is, on one side, the result of the first job of the execution: the meetings of the execution council, the encounters with the departments, the meetings with the social and economic sectors that relate to it, etc. On the other hand, it is the result of institutional work, both in relation to the leaders of the parliamentary groups of this chamber as found with the Spanish political leaders, President Rajoy included, and, of course, the representation work that I am close to assuming and doing, without more limitations than those of the agenda and my incapacity manifests to ubiquity. In this sense, in few new months I have moved to thirty-six regions of the country and have visited eighty municipalities of all ages, some of which on more than one occasion, with the idea of moving the compromise across the country, of listening to complaints, complaints, but also expectations of mayors, mayors, sees and sees of all these municipalities. Sometimes I have not been able to complete the compromise and apologize, but most of us have not spared, my team and I, the efforts to be present to the great international events that take place in our capital, and also to the events that take place in the most distant places of Barcelona, such as the inauguration of a regade to the High Land, the inn on the march of a depurator or the presentation of the new trains of the village of Segur, in which it was, in fact, my first exit as President, concretely, to the city of Lleida. Events that are also great for their ability to transform their environment and their future opportunities and the positive impact they have on territorial balance. Let us therefore move to the first bloc: an energy-efficient and sustainable country. Catalonia, like Europe, has set itself the objective of combining a competitive, sustainable and 100_per_cent renewable energy model. This objective cannot, as I said before, be an initiative taken in isolation for the Government, but it needs a broad consensus. For this reason, we are pushing the debate to achieve a national pact for energy transition, with all social, economic and political agents, and with all aspects related to sustainability. The Energy and Climate 2013 package of the European Union is fixed as a minimum objective, which includes, among others, that 50_percent of electricity is renewable in 2030, as well as reducing 40_percent of gas emissions with winter effects. In parallel to this great agreement and to the law of climate change, we are unfolding a whole series of concrete actions to advance these objectives. We have approved, in this sense, the Action Plan for the deployment of electrical vehicle infrastructure in Catalonia 2016-2019 to encourage electric mobility and to achieve 21,000 connected charging points. We have given the impetus of the Catalan Strategy for Energy Renovation of Buildings, with more than eighty public and private entities to improve the sustainability of the built park. We are working to ensure that 2020 is set aside a 25_percent of energy-efficient students in suitable buildings, through the Education and Energy Efficiency Platform of the Generality buildings – and, in fact, just a few days ago, the new institute of Pallejà, the first school building in Catalonia to be practically zero-consumer, was launched. We have put in operation the five hundred cleaner, we are a model of success, pioneer and advanced in the management of the water resources, applied, to the length of the twenty-five years later, and with which today we have 97_percent of the territory sanejat, 97_percent of the territory català, at these times, sanejat for these already more, in fact, five hundred depurators in service. We have put in operation new residual management infrastructures to Oris and Clariana de Cardener, with a joint investment of 22,4_million euros and we have opened a line of help of 7,5_million euros for economic sectors and in the local areas for the better of the waste management. We are developing the future law of the territory, with the aim of avoiding soil retentions, prioritizing urban recycling through new ways and helping the goal of access to a decent habitat. We have followed the strategy of impulses of the circular economy, in the line of the most advanced in Europe, which includes the Pact for the Labour Force, which marks as an objective to reach a 90_percent reduction of plastic bumps, the year 2020, and which will again be included in the law accompanying the assumptions of 2017. Law, national pact and concrete strategies, to be a forward and referent state in the field of sustainability and energy efficiency. Second chapter: a country connected and balanced territorially. As you all know, public transport plays an important role in becoming an area that is effectively connected, with low emissions and that generates equal opportunities, visquis on visquis of the country. We work in an integrated mobility model that encourages the use of public transport, decongest the road network and, at the same time, improve the quality of the area. T-Mobility is the cornerstone of this model focused on giving people facilities. Recently, it became clear that if the rolling stock service had evolved in line with demand, as the Generality Railways have actually done, we would have been able to take eight thousand cars daily from our rolling stock and would therefore substantially reduce the congestion and contamination that those who came this morning for the rounds have surely suffered, such as the daily suffering of so many people who are making use of the car and that, in a normal country, they would have to be able to serve the rolling stock if they function properly and with investments, such as at least the compromises. With the inn in service, in the past February, of the new tram line 9 between the University Zone and the Airport and, this September, of the new metro tram from Vallès to Sabadell we have expanded the public transport network to the area of Barcelona and has reached a record level of travellers with almost 10_million more respect for the first eight_months of 2015. If we count the metro from Vallès to Terrassa, which went into operation in mid-January 2015, the Government has invested in conjunction 3,800_million euros– 3,800_million euros–, which contrasts with the oblivion and abandonment of the Spanish State. The 400,000 Catalans who take the train every day to go to work or study are not worthy of the delays and continuous incidents due to incompliments of promises of girls and never executed. Catalonia has been linked to the world and integrated into Europe and the Mediterranean. In commercial terms, the degree of openness of the Catalan economy, a 117_percent of GDP, is very high in the middle of the European and Spanish countries. We are a very dynamic export economy that since 2008 – since 2008 – comes more to the world than to the Spanish market and five years ago the result of which we have surpassed ourselves in sales abroad and which bear export records, as well as the contraction context of European exports, which have fallen by 2_per_cent. What are the conditions under which goods are sold? Are we giving the best of them to compete globally to the more than seven thousand Catalan companies that regularly export? Do we offer the best connectivity to the 6,400 foreign businesses deployed at our home? Badly, no. The Mediterranean Corridor is the backbone for our connection to Europe. 80 per cent of the goods in the whole of the State pass through the Mediterranean, and around it, around this Mediterranean, 47 per cent of the Spanish State's enterprises are located there. For these companies and their places of work, we need this infrastructure, endorsed by the European Union, to be a reality, as we have called for agents and government in the framework of the Catalan Mediterranean Corridor's Taula and we have also called for it on a common front with the Valencian Community. A corridor of goods that has to be connected with the great infrastructures of the country: the ports of Tarragona and Barcelona and the Airport of Barcelona - El Prat. These infrastructures are economically well managed. The airport and the port of Barcelona have been the most profitable of the network of AENA and Ports del Estado. They're infrastructure to serve the citizens. The airport has doubled the intercontinental offer in two years and in the first half of the year it has positioned itself as the second largest airport between European airports. They're infrastructural for business. The port of Tarragona is the leader of the Mediterranean in the movement of agri-food products and in the charge of chemical products. To further enhance these infrastructures, we have approved the new Law of Ports, a law to organize the Catalan port model in its competitiveness and thought with the mindset of the State; for all ports of Catalonia, including those currently managed by the Spanish State. Can you imagine where we could get to as the country if these infrastructures are run independently and independently, as in fact happens in Europe, and not subjugated to a centralist policy? Are we willing to access the appropriate rail routes? What if the Mediterranean Corridor was a reality? Of course, our economy and its businesses would strengthen even more their success model, which means that there would be more and better jobs, and more and better economic resources at the disposal of the social policies that all governments have the obligation to do. Third chapter: a new model of productive economy. The economy must be based on the added value and bet decisively on innovation and the new technologies. Countries with more industry, those that are clearly betting to grow, and their economic pes, the pes of their GDP to the industrial sector..., have higher wages and better withstand crises. This is why we need a new screenplay with everyone who crystallises in the already announced National Pact for Industry, with the aim of advancing to this more competitive industry at international level, more innovative and of greater added value. Just three weeks ago, the government formalized the working groups that would address the strategy to follow. In our own months we want to build the foundations for the transition to models of reference of our environment, to the economy of knowledge, while enhancing the interaction between universities, research centres and product weaving, and for the collaboration between the business world and the academic world. An academic world, certainly, that starts the course, that has started the course, with a new knowledge infrastructure: the Campus Diagonal-Besòs, a knowledge space that connects and integrates the territory and, at the same time, that consolidates the leadership of our universities. In fact, Catalonia is the third European country with a greater proportion of students enrolled in well-positioned universities in international universities. For one band, we want the university to follow an example of a social ascent, thinking that 57 percent of students enrolled in Catalan universities are children of parents without higher education, and for the other, of human capital formation, aligned with the demands of the labour market. In this sense, Catalan university graduates have the highest occupancy rate in the State. In this mark of excellence the Serra Húnter programme, the extension of which is currently being carried out in Parliament, and the ICREA scholarships, which celebrate the fifteen years, have given a decisive boost to the forms of university contract for the retention and attraction of talent to our universities and research centers. And, in fact, sis_de_each_de_de's ICREA investigators are international. The Catalan innovation and research ecosystem – universities, Cerca centers, large infrastructures – stands out in fund-raising, especially as the most competitive is a call. We attract 56_percent of the foreign investment in start-ups in Spain – 56_per_cent–, 56_per_cent of the Spanish State's aid taken in the 2015 calls of the European Research Council and 67_percent of the Spanish State's Consolidator Grants. The ultimate goal of this system must be to transform ideas into business realities and more quality work places. Let me give you some examples of what we're doing. The programme of industrial doctorates, with the open call and which we plan to solve completely at the fever; the programme of the Knowledge Industry, of which in mid-October we open the three calls: research, product and market; the creation of Eurecat as the center provider of industrial technology in Catalonia with more than a thousand clients and more than one hundred and sixty large research and development projects; the redefinition of Tecnio, on 3,700 projects have involved entries of more than 100_million euros and have claimed fifty-eight European patents. And, in this sense, an interesting note: it should be noted that Catalonia leads patent applications, with a 34_percent of the total Spanish state, and claims, Catalonia, adherence to the single European patent, which Spain insists on blocking. All this activity has been translated into business dynamism. Between the generation and the consumption of this year, more than seven thousand businesses have been created in Catalonia, 23 per cent more than in the same period of the previous year, and it is the highest volume of the crisis. They are given – they are given, they are not opinions – which contrast with the fact that some state mediamen are writing day by day too, and let's be clear, Catalonia has not run away from businesses. In the past year, if you want to know the data, I listen well, 949 companies came out of Catalonia, less than they left Madrid which, moreover, has a smaller business fabric. In fact, Catalonia leads the creation of nine companies in the State in the last four years; it is said, since 2012, the beginning of the process. We talk about the future, but the future and the changes are already here, we see it in the collaborative economy: Uber, Airbnb..., an area in which the Administration has to give an answer with a regulation and in which it takes maximum advantage of the window of opportunity and flexibility it generates, while guaranteeing the fair competition, security and taxation. This is the Commission's challenge for the Development of Collaborative Economy created in April. Catalonia has also had a pioneering policy at the time of aligning different sectors to create critical mass and to have more chances of success in the global world, so we are continuing to develop the cluster program that already has thirty clusters, with more than 2,100 members and more than 290,000 workers, and that we want to expand with the new Advanced Manufacturing Cluster that has the opposite of implementing innovations of Industry 4.0. We are a country where 99_percent of its businesses are peppers, for which business and workers are a unique and inseparable joint venture. We need to put into value the figure of entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, self-employed people, all those who are in front of an activity that generates wealth and occupation, of those people who risk, of those people who do not speculate, who work from harvest to harvest with their teams of professionals and workers to raise the door every day and to make possible the economic activity and the generation of wealth. And that's why this government wants to stay and help businesses in the country, because their reps are our reps. Since 2012 we have followed close to four hundred at risk companies, with more than fifty_ thousand work places at stake, and we have managed to keep almost 75_per_cent of these places and we have managed to keep 7,775 work places thanks to the agreements with the merchant courts, which have allowed us to avoid the closure of 208 productive units in creditor contests. We promote access to corporate credit. Since 2011, the Catalan Institute of Finance has facilitated access to finance to 12,455 businesses– 97_percent of which are peppers and entrepreneurs– for an import of more than 3,700_million euros, involving more than 15,500 loan or downside operations. We are moving forward with administrative simplification and better regulation in line with the recommendations made to us by the European Commission and the OECD so as not to hinder economic growth and job creation, especially by small businesses. Highlight, in this sense, the single business window, which has incorporated more than five hundred processes and to which almost all Catalan assemblies– 94_per_cent, to be concrete– are adhered or in the process of accession, thanks to the Law of Administrative Simplification approved the past year and the new Law Simplification Plan 2016-2017, with the aim of achieving a coherent, secure and accessible legal framework. We protect our business model with the new Trade Law, which is old for the balance of business models and allows us to convise the small proximity trade with large areas, allows reconciliation while competitiveness and is coherent with urban planning that must be sustainable; a model that has proved to be more effective in maintaining the business chain and occupation during the years of crisis. Facilitate access to European resources. With the support of the Government, Catalan companies are leading the capture of European innovation resources for small and medium-sized enterprises in the Spanish State and are ahead of countries like Israel or Denmark. Moreover, the thirty-six external offices that operate in more than 90 countries are the catalyst for the internationalization of our companies, the follow-up necessary for their implementation in the external markets, which is sometimes not necessary, but defined. So far, more than 23,000 Catalan companies – 23,000 Catalan companies, retain this xifra when someone comes to the tempt to discuss the actions of the Catalan offices abroad – have returned with a great return to the country. For each euro invested in an external office, we get forty-nine euros in export and twenty-six euros in foreign investment. Every euro inverts. A socio-economic return that supports the extension of the network to Iran, sub-Saharan Africa and the Balkans. If international companies are the great ambassadors of the country, they are also the experiences of the people who visit us. The strategic tourism plan 2013-2016 and its marketing plan have resulted in two key instruments of tourism planning that is committed to quality, which recognises the actions that the country has at its disposal and which has also incorporated the tourist tax, which until now has received 133_million euros, as the financier of the global strategy. And as one of the four tourists of the Spanish State has turned out to be, we lead Spain's tourism competitiveness race and the tourism sector concentrates doze_de_cada_cent places of work in Catalonia. Tourism therefore plays a key role in our economy. And at the same time that we must avoid criminalising it, as is the case in some sectors, we must be able to fight against the illegal offer, against the inciivism of some, to fight against harmful destinations and offers, to put in value the sector with our products, to increase the quality of tourist services and to improve it, in the sense of doubt, the working conditions. There is also tourism, in this case of negotiations, the many international events and events that take place in Catalonia and that make Barcelona the second city of the world in the name of professionals who attend congresses. The Mobile World Congress, the Smart City Expo World Congress, the Internet of Things Solutions World Congress, the 3D industry fire, the Gamelab and many others help us to create a brand of country, to strengthen the positioning of Barcelona and Catalonia and to generate wealth and connectivity to local businesses, especially the smaller ones. In this sense, I would like to celebrate the new initiatives, such as the first edition of the Meat Business Forum and the consolidation of traditional threads, such as the Food Hall, which enguany has attached 140,000 assistants, 44,000 of whom foreigners come from 157 countries. The success of these fibers is found in the role of Catalonia as one of the main food clusters in Europe, which concentrates about a quarter of the agribusiness in the State. Also in the Catalan camp we have made a complementary effort, since the State has reduced by 175_million euros, which is equivalent to 75_per_cent, its contributions respect the period prior to the Rural Development Plan 2014-2020, putting at risk the co-financed European foundations. In order to ensure that the euro is not lost on European funds, this Government has increased aid, and now, while the State alone contributes €59_million throughout the period, the Generality has increased its contribution to €403_million; 59 vs. 403. For this reason, the model we want, fishing, agri-food and forestry, must be based on sustainability and must guarantee the competitiveness and viability of farms and enterprises in the primary sector. The generational replenishment to the sector, the distribution of wealth and the empowerment of the territory are some of the elements that justify the policies that are indecent. To strengthen the cooperative sector we have approved the 2016-2020 Agricultural Cooperatives Platform, to enhance its technological modernization and its marketing strategies, and we have created a fund to give financial support to agricultural cooperatives with a growth section and thus preserve the members' studios. To address the volatility of food prices at source, we will reformulate the Preus Observers of Catalonia, in order to provide transparency in the formation of food prices. In order to get to know the Catalan field we have created the new program « Welcome to pay, which in its first edition has exceeded all expectations thanks to more than two-hundred farms and branches that have opened its doors to more than 12,500 visitors. To ensure the maintenance of the pagesia to the territory we have a global reflection on the orders of help, to transform the model of business, to add value to the length of the chain, to prioritize the investments that ensure the viability of the farms and to facilitate the incorporation into the field work, especially of young people and women. To increase the regadius we plan to set aside the two next years 3,500_hectares of regadius and modernize about 1,230_hectares, as well as the paralysis of the works of the Segarra-Garrigues channel for the non-approval of the assumptions. In order to control the contamination of nitrate needles, while the branching sector is not at risk, which I would like to remind you that it accounts for 64_percent of Catalan agricultural production, we designed an integral strategy of branching. In order to find permanent solutions to the damage caused by wildlife, we will develop the plan to prevent the damage and risks caused by kinegetic fauna to people, agriculture and livestock and have negotiated better in the insurance system. Thus, in the next few months, the decree on the sale of game meat will be approved, in order to regulate the conditions of wild game intended for commercialization and self-consumption. In the food market we have set aside an interdepartmental group for the benefit of food, with the aim of associating, as the country of excellence in this field..., according to the objectives that are marked at European level. We must also be able to contribute elements of reflection to the law that is being processed in the Parliament of Catalonia. And finally, with the will to strengthen the Catalonia brand in international markets and quality values, which has allowed us, for example, to increase by 52_per_cent the export of wine the past year or open the Chinese market to Lleida pinyol fruit, the recognition of Catalonia as the European Region of Gastronomy and the declaration of the year 2016 as the Year of Gastronomy and Wine Tourism are opportunities to give knowledge of the great landscape and gastronomic variety of the country and to promote a much more balanced tourist destination. At the same time, we place the local agri-food product as a unique exponent of the territory and based on a kitchen that brings a particular focus to the culture and that in these moments leads the world culinary revolution. Fourth block. A high-quality occupation that reaches everyone. I strongly urge you to achieve a more productive economy than you do for quality and added value. We do not compete with low-level workers, safety, quality or environmental standards. It's the way to guarantee more and better work. The best social and integration policy is that people can develop their work and vital project. They look at the latest data from the recorded tour, which we all know just yesterday, as all September since the year 2008 the tour has increased 1.28_per_cent respect the August for the finalization, above all, of the seasonal contracts linked to the tourist season. As for a year ago, the time has fallen by 12.1_per_cent, 3 points more reduction than the Spanish medium, and we have 39_months of consecutive descent, an intense reduction of the time with values greater than 10_per_cent since May 2015. The contract has bid a 14.1 respect a year ago, much above what the global Spanish has done, a 6.2. Social security affiliation has increased by 3.9 in annual terms, and is also in the next few places. But we still have important challenges to face. And a lot. The age between young Catalans is still very high, as is the age of long-term and seniors of fifty-five years, and so is the temporality in contracts; problems that are endemic to our economy, even in times of expansion. And that's what's worrying. In addition, in the next few years we will have to manage the possible effects of the new technologies on employment, which will be there, to ensure that low-skilled workers are not displaced and that they perform replacement tasks for digitisation and automation. And in this sense the formation will be key to minimizing the effects that this industrial revolution can have. This is why we have not adopted the LOMCE basic vocational training model, which stigmatizes vocational training and considers it to be the school dropout. Vocational training is one of the main players in the future. The data give us the reason: the rate of stay of FP graduates is six points lower than the rate of stay of Catalonia and much lower than the rate of stay of young people. This is why we deploy the law of training and professional qualification of Catalonia, as it was approved just a year ago with the majority support of this chamber. It includes, among others, the creation of the Public Agency for Vocational Training and Qualification as an organization to integrate all the tools of vocational training, both initial and occupational training, and to coordinate criteria for the planning of services and the detection of needs. As the Law also unfolded, on April 26, the Government approved guidelines that would allow the development and approval of the first accreditation and qualification plan, so that people without professional qualifications can assess and credit the skills acquired through their professional experience and additional training. Continuing to affirm the prestige of professional training also passes to have a good offer of post-compulsory studies. In the past few years, there has been a gradual increase in supply and enrolment: since 2007-2008, persons enrolled in vocational training have increased by 80_per_cent, and respect for the later course has increased the PS by 13,830 places, i.e., a 13_per_cent. Dual vocational training is also consolidated as a key option to give response to the training needs of enterprises through the alternation between centre and company, and highlight its practical character and a 59_per_cent job placement higher than the rest of graduates. Since his inn in March only four years ago we have gone from about 600 students to over 7,800, from 25 educational centers to over 200 and from a hundred entrepreneurs to about 2,900 businesses. This growth responds to the good collaboration generated between the companies and the teaching centers of FP, which also led to the development of the first transnational program, which requires the practices of students both in Catalonia and abroad. The lack of stable employment and precariousness are also the consequence of the existing labour market. Therefore, there is a consensus between the business representatives, the workers and the administrations, with a broad framework of labour relations, with a number of essential elements: promotion of contract through contractual simplification; promotion of job stability through a more equitable treatment between indefinite and temporary contracts; a minimum wage that allows levels of benefit and capture of productivity gains; that goes beyond safety and the compliment of environmental legislation, and that avoids social exclusion is sensitive to the integration of people with special difficulties. In this sense, from the government we are working to agree with economic and social agents a minimum wage of EUR 1,000 per month, according to the standards defined in the European Social Charter. We have increased the assumption of active employment policies to EUR 363 million, especially for people over 45 years of age and young people. We gave a boost to the Labour Inspectorate, and during 2015 4,233 temporary contracts were transformed into indefinite contracts, as a consequence of the requirements, and in which we carry 4,777 contracts. We have created the Customized Career Orientation Program, equipped with a hundred_two orientation techniques to help people who are so eager to find work with an individualized advice. We have expanded the line of financing for the social and cooperative economy to EUR 18_million, for cooperatives and the social economy and the third sector. We want to reach fifty thousand young people enrolled in the Youth Guarantee and more than fifteen thousand people contracted in special work centres. In this line, the recent judgment of European justice on the equipping of indefinite and temporary employment contracts is a step in the right direction, as is Brussels's fine to Apple. We need Europe to play a decision-making role in favour of fiscal harmonization, the exchange of tax information between countries and the fight against fraud and tax evasion, in defense of the competence and universality of tax collection. We need more Europe and more forcefully. In this context, we are laying the foundations of the new Tax Agency of Catalonia, which will manage all the taxes generated for Catalans so as to dispose of the wealth generated by the country. We are working to have more efficient processes and information systems, a more responsive and secure administration for taxpayers and that does not miss the competitiveness of businesses with more staff, get a wider territorial deployment and a fight against fraud that is much more effective. In this sense, it should be noted: the single taxation window in 142 offices, the result of the collaboration with deputies, regional councils and joint ventures, in the framework of the Tributes de Catalunya network; the exercise of the executive recapturing of all the debts generated from the second half of 2017 and, thus, the possibility to act independently of the Spanish tax agency; the expansion of the workforce from 350 people at the end of 2015 to 425 at the end of this year, and up to 800 people at the end of 2017. Being able to dispose of our resources is key to dedicating them to the transformation of our economy, ensuring the welfare of society and improving institutions. Five blocks: a country where everyone can develop their personal project. Education is the most important instrument for personal growth and for ensuring equal opportunities; it is the fundamental element for overcoming the initial conditions, at the personal and family, social and economic level, it has been even during the years of crisis, and it benefits above all those with a more complex starting situation. We have a successful educational model, thanks in great part to the professional teachers. Thus, according to the 2009-2010 course, ESO's graduation rate has increased from 82_per_cent to 88_per_cent. Early school drop-out was reduced from 27.9_per_cent to 18.7, nine points less. ESO quarter repeaters have moved from 9_per_cent to less than 6_per_cent for the first time. The rate of fitness has increased from 70.3_percent of the student in the 2010-2011 course to 77.6 in the past course. Since 2013, the results of all assessed subjects have improved and, above all, the percentage of students who do not meet basic skills has decreased. These global improvements, and above all the reduction of inequalities, must make us proud of our schools, institutes and educational centres. In this sense, I must thank all the professionals and agents involved in the system, and especially the teachers, for their enormous effort, dedication and commitment to this better quality and fairness in the system's joint venture. The priority objective is now to achieve an educational system that provides students with knowledge, skills and skills suitable for the new economic and social scene. The deployment of the Catalonia Education Law allows us to bet on the autonomy of centres, direct leadership, pedagogical innovation and assessment as instruments of improvement. And make contextual educational proposals to the reality of each centre, all the while empowering the role of the directions through the development of the professionalization decree of the school direction and driving innovation through the development of the order of pedagogical innovation that will lead to the development of a plan of diffusion and transfer of pedagogical innovation. Two years ago, in Catalonia, we are moving towards a competitive model in which students use knowledge and skills in a cross-sectional way. Today's jobs require every time more collaboration, and they are focused on solving complex problems in a creative way. They are also trans-disciplinaries, value critical thinking and emotional intelligence. Our multilingual project model is a guarantee of our country's social cohesion, and ensures that all the students master the two official languages. We do not understand certain attacks on a model that gives good results, and more when Catalonia stands above the middle of the Spanish State in knowledge of Spanish language. We work for multilingualism [[remorse of the voice]] , knowledge of a first foreign language, introduction of a _second and maintenance of the language of origin of the new student. If any of these data you want to contrast it, you'll have time to do it in the turn of the line. Donors of official data. Surely they do not like to hear this, that the middle of Catalonia in knowledge of the Spanish language is by the mountain of the middle of Spain, because it dispels their speech [[remorse of the voice]] But what do you want me to say? ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.3.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.4.0	...the facts are the facts [[applause]] reality is reality. And propaganda is all about something else. And here we didn't come to advertise. [[applause persists]] We've come to talk about country policy. Therefore, it is not just equal opportunities, it is also to ensure that the talent and potential of the territory and the whole society is developed. Aware of this, even if we do not have any assumptions, we have given more resources to those high-complexity educational centres: four hundred additional teachers and reduction of P3 ratios from twenty-five to twenty-two students. We reinforced the inclusive school with one hundred and forty dozen more, and maintaining the 360 support techniques incorporated in the previous course. We've reviewed the criteria for obtaining groceries, and we've kept an open line to address all the situations that occur at the length of the year. In four years we have increased by 70_per_cent the resources we spend, up to 57_million euros and 88,000 aid the past course, and it is expected to reach around 70_million euros this course. The nine generations, and also those who are already at the labor market, must learn to learn. And we're gonna have to do it a long time ago so we can get a major adaptable in one world every time we change. Let us look at the number of jobs that did not exist so many years ago: mobile app developers, driverless car mechanics, massive data analysts, drone operators... The challenge of increasing knowledge in science, mathematics, especially in ESO students, is a challenge of the country, it is a challenge to the medium and long term, and we have to face it if we want our children and nets to have opportunities for quality jobs that will be generated in spaces that today do not yet generate these jobs and that in the future will be the ones that will lead the creation of jobs. With this look at the future, we have commissioned, as you know – because it is very recently – the School Council of Catalonia to carry out a thorough debate, which starts from the same educational community, on the great challenges that Catalan education must face in order to advance in quality and equity. And now we look at creativity, critical experience and cross-cutting as key elements, and they will be even more so in the future. In this sense, culture takes centrality and is a basic tool of modern societies. First, it's the thread of continuity of our history, which gives us deep sense and hold. We believe that research, inter-channels and cataloguing are elements of safeguarding popular culture. This is why, for the first time, two university chairs, one at Rovira and Virgili, on the castler world, and one at Lleida, on the fire, have been created with the collaboration of the deputies, and that are linked to two very important celebrations for UNESCO. Second, culture helps us to co-ordinate with the people and advance socially. Because culture comes to everyone, we have projects like "Apropa culture", which has brought about 130,000 people with disabilities or at risk of exclusion from theatre, music and heritage; "Scene 25, to facilitate young people's access to the performing arts, with very remarkable results – for example, the past course attracted more than twenty thousand users. Third, culture is today a pioneering sector and one of the most globalized, our best ambassador to the world. In the past few months we have signed collaboration agreements with the Hermitage Museum of St. Petersburg, Russia, to exhibit surrealism in Catalonia, and with the Smithsonian Institution for participation in the 2018 Folklife Festival. We guarantee the presence of creators of Catalan culture in international events, such as the Biennale d'Architecture of Venice, the Fira de Frankfurt, the Off d'Avinyó festival or the Fira Internacional del Llibre Infantil e Juvenil de Bolonya in 2017. Fourth, culture is creation, innovation and wealth. We will approve the tax on electronic communications services, pending the judgment of the Constitutional Court, of course, and that we should be able to collect some 20_million euros annually to finance audiovisual production and the new digital industries, which are a future bet. The Catalan territory acquills a 9_per_cent more rounds in the year 2015 and is consolidated as a film set. And we are working on two ambitious projects: the sci-fi plan to encourage dance productions and the integral plan of music. But we also need to work to create new publics. To do this, education and work with the youngest are paramount. In the next few days we will start a campaign because all the children of Catalonia, when they make six years, join a bookstore to sort a gift book for them and start their library; more action than help us push our reading indexes, which have increased in the last few years from 61 to 65_per_cent, more than the targets set for the European Union. Six blocks: a welfare state, a real guarantee of equal opportunities. All these aspects of personal development require essential services for quality of life; the most important: salvation. Catalonia is a nation that protects all its citizens, all of them, 7_million_i_mig, without exception. That is why the Government plans to approve the Universal Access to Health Care Act, which guarantees for it the non-application of the Spanish Government's 2012 Decree Law, which excludes the most vulnerable people in the public health system and which we have never applied to Catalonia. It is a further example of our irrefutable commitment to the universality of the right to salvation. We have a quality and forward-looking health system: the world's highest life expectancy, along with Japan and Norway; low infarct mortality, stroke and cancer; leader in integrated ICTs, transplants and blood donations. And we also have a popular system. In primary attention, the year 2015 was attended to 5,7_million people in more than 45_million visits, with a medium value close to 8_on_10– 8_on_10– of these 5,7_million people attending these 45_million visits, and almost new_of_each_one people would continue to go to the same CAP. Strengthening the prevention of malalty and combating inequalities arising from social and environmental conditions are central policies of this Government. For this reason work is being done in the preparation of the Strategic Primary and Community Care Plan and the Director of Continuing and Urgent Care Plan, which will establish new criteria in the evening hours of the CAP and a new distribution of economic resources to the primary assistance that will incorporate criteria of economic and social inequality. The full plan for the best of waiting lists is designed to ensure fairness in access. In the first few months of the year an effort was made to increase the surgical activity and took place about 185,000 interventions of the waiting list, a 3.8_per_cent more than in the same period of the past year, and it was all done and there were no assumptions. Let's hope that the assumptions allow us to reduce the waiting lists by 50_per_cent per specialist and diagnostic tests and 10_per_cent per surgical waiting lists, as we would have liked to do. For what it does to quality, it relies on an integrated care model focused on the person; it highlights three key initiatives developed with the complicity of the sector, of the patients, of the professionals and of the public administrations: the inter-departmental plan of care and social and health interaction, in order to advance in the process of integration of social and health services; the comprehensive plan of care for people with mental disorders and additions, in order to face without reservations a problem that will affect some part of a catalan_each_four years long of their life and to avoid social exclusion and stigma of the people who suffer it, and the deployment of our instruments, such as the Oncológica de Catalunya, which contributes to the clinical excellence and integral care of the patients. In this clinical excellence and in the health system in general to which we want to reach play a key role in research and innovation. The recently approved Strategic Health Research and Innovation Plan 2016-2020 must allow us to apply all the knowledge generated by the medical research that is carried out in the country, and that is why we will shortly open a call for €20_million for health-oriented research projects. This applied search has a direct return on the salvation of the citizenry, so the return on this reversal is also direct to the salvation of the citizenry. Day by day we see concrete results: new techniques to treat Crohn's disease and fetge cancer; design of molecules to fight AIDS, hepatitis C, dengue fever and Nile fever at a time; we biosensors to detect celiac disease in just a few minutes, or mobile applications to control the pain of patients from home. In summary, applied search. However, it must be borne in mind that the population's aging, the chronification of diseases and the new therapeutic possibilities are factors that put pressure on the accelerated growth of healthcare expenditure. Without a change in the political and financial framework, it is difficult to sustain the system, already made worse by a situation of chronic infra-financing that we are experiencing from the Spanish State. Block set: a social protection network that dignifies people. The country we build must be worthy of future generations. What we have today is the intention of admiring social rights in Europe, that Europe which has been able to conjugate the economy and social justice, that Europe which has found the link between the competitiveness of its economy and the defence of the rights of people, especially the most vulnerable. Therefore, one of the objectives we have as a country is to achieve the policies of the welfare state the same percentage of GDP as the most advanced European countries, to make possible, thus, an agile, citizen-friendly and effective system in solving individual and collective problems. The creation of the Catalan Agency for Social Protection, which is now being processed in Parliament, gives us the opportunity to address and review the current performance map and discuss how social protection should be in Catalonia in its entirety. We find ourselves with the paradox of economic and wealth indicators in the country that cannot then be translated into the social protection that would correspond to them. It can solve the historical challenges as a result of a permanent fiscal deficit and of rights approved without the corresponding funding, and thus ensure that from childhood to old age the government and society give response and protection to the citizen and allows them to live with dignity. The state is the best guarantee to develop the social policies that our citizens deserve. While we're not getting there, we're still doing the best we can to develop assumptions that once again devote a greater percentage to spending in social parties. In fact, in the last premise, which was not processed, the percentage reached 73,6_per_cent, the highest of all history, and included a shoc plan intended entirely for the better of the welfare state with: more beneficiaries of the minimum income of insertion, more residential places of care for the large people and people with disabilities, more home care for 6,500 people with dependency, removal of taxes from the reports of arrest of immigrant people, more resources for the protected work and social work, more endowment for the struggle against the poor child, 10_million euros for the energy poor, 10_million euros for the promotion of cross-cutting projects of social cohesion and social employment, more for the fight against the poor child, 10_million euros for the elimination of taxes on social relations, 10_million euros for the promotion of social cohesion projects, and for the social service, more for the benefit of those who think directly about the welfare of the people, but only about the possibility of presenting the social charter, 10_million euros for the execution of social projects, 10_million euros for the promotion of social projects, and the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the people, which is the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the social policy, which is possible. There will also be, under these assumptions, the measures adopted as a consequence of the plenary of the poor and which require a premise approved for its implementation; an extraordinary ple of the poor which was celebrated in March and which, with great consensus and joint work of political formations – a work that I have wanted to thank, and I believe that the country in general appreciates, and I believe that it must inspire us on those themes in which we can agree – involved the approval of 275 measures to provide comprehensive support and policies against the poor and to give new opportunities to people who are at risk of social exclusion. Even with the non-approval of the assumptions, the Government is complimenting more than 75 percent of the measures, and in three weeks we will meet again with parliamentary groups, unions, professional and municipal social entities, to assess the state of the status of the agreements adopted, analyze what we can improve and discuss in a context, as you know, of limited resources. We also have present the delights to which we face and which we try to overcome day by day with the effort of all; to overcome and, at the same time, denounce. In the area of dependency care, the Spanish State should finance 50 per cent of public expenditure and only 18 per cent in finance, and the rest is taking over the Generality, and we will not tire of reporting it. Between 2012 and 2015 Catalonia has stopped collecting 336_million euros with which we could have increased 18,150 residential places. Still, we provide benefits to more than 145,000 beneficiaries. We are aware that great people have a special vulnerability. At the beginning of the year we will present the comprehensive plan of prevention and follow-up of great people, with policies against abuse and for the empowerment of great people. He also reactivated and reformed the Council of the Great Gent. Since it cannot be otherwise, we must also protect our childhood and promote our rights, they are quick to detect mistreatments and agile in the response to avoid further harm to minors. This is why we have approved the Protocol on the Prevention, Detection, Notification, Derivation and Coordination of Child and Adolescent Abuse Situations in Education, and we are also developing a strategic plan for infants from zero to six years who promote and support foster families. And before the summer, we formalised with local authorities the new 2016-2019 Social Services Programme Contract, which you plan to allocate €823 million over four years to strengthen the network of services for children and adolescents, and which covers two new lines of cooperation in the field of equality. It is not only the institutions that act, it is obvious, by fate; Catalonia counts on an associated fabric indispensable at the time of having collections affected by a need for social character. It's a phonative act in our society. On 25 July, with the signature of the third support platform for the third social sector, the Third Social Sector Entity Table and the Government reaffirmed their commitment to working together and working together for people and strengthening the entities; as commitments, among others, increased support to prisoners who come from prison, to improve their social reintegration; we have strengthened the entities in resources and the number of housing units – we have already given up three hundred and we will reach the fifty before we close the legislature – and it will be drawn up – the law to promote the associationism of Catalonia will be drawn up. One of the key elements for building a more egalitarian and respectful society is the effective equality between men and women in all spheres of our society. We need to tackle without cracks and from an optical scale the chakra of male violence, which includes not only the pair, but also the work, community and family, an important difference between our law and Spanish. This is why, as part of the implementation of the Law of Equality, we have created the Observers of Gender Equality and the Study Center, Research and Training on Male Violence, and we are developing a new comprehensive intervention plan against male violence 2016-2019, which we will present at the end of this year. We have put in place a working group to report male violence to social media, as well as to analyze gender stereotypes in the world of advertising, and that has already made the first complaints to the prosecution of blogs and videos that incite violence. In the field of education, support has been given to the centres for a better care of transgender or intersex children and adolescents, and a training cycle of higher professional training has been opened in promotion of gender equality; a pioneering course in the State that is already being shared in centres of the Hospital of Llobregat, Badalona and Reus. Catalonia has been and continues to be in the forefront of recognition of the rights of lesbian, gay, transgender, bisexual and intersex people. It must be borne in mind that many of the public policies in gender equality already have specific actions, but coordination must be strengthened. And it is in this sense that the government also works through the Catalan Institute of Donations and its co-legitimate organs, which are usually regulated by decree. Catalonia is also a land of concentration, and we are calling for a proper policy of migration and asylum in order to give answers to people seeking international protection and to show that, before the current inopportunity of the Europe of the States, the brotherhood of the Europe of the peoples always persists. I myself have reiterated to the State and the European Union the offer of 4,500 refugees; at this time we already have more than 1,200 seats available in forty-three municipalities. And it's that in the new country that we want there shouldn't be any stops, because the aspiration of progress and social justice is for everyone. That's why we want to put a stop to the denunciations; a denunciation alone is a drama and a broken vital illusion, and that's why we have to devote all our efforts to avoid it. That is precisely why the Catalonian Parliament has legislated more than ever in the matter of housing, but unfortunately the Government of the State and the Constitutional Court have also resorted and suspected more than ever. We have tools to fight against Emergency in the field of housing, to fight against the energy poverty, and the Government of the State and the Constitutional Court are getting rid of them. In front of the adversities, we react with more urgency. All just yesterday we approved the Bill of Rights Protection Measures for people who are at risk of social exclusion, which I hope will count on their compliance, and we have begun to lay the groundwork for a Catalan urban lease law, which between other approaches is how to deal with the increments of the logue that some people suffer, with the objective that the logue is a real option for people. As well as the suspension of the laws, we have deployed a whole series of measures that I want to detail. First: we have managed to agree with the entities to finance the temporary cessation of habitats and we have reached 3,660, which, in the sense of doubt, will increase. According to: we have recovered more than 11 million with the tax of empty floors, imposing pending judgment of the Constitutional Court. Resources all dedicated to acquiring floors from mortgages and allocating them to vulnerable people and families. We're already carrying 324 acquired habitats this way, and we expect to reach more than four hundred by the end of the year. And third: we have formed and started working as the organ representing the Emergency Table in the Habitat and Energy Poverty area, in order to unify the mechanisms of social and institutional participation in both areas. Let me, in the matter of poor energy – despite the legalistic aggression of the Spanish State, which in a systematic and incomprehensible way gives the citizens the bait – tell them that our commitment continues to avoid the size of sub-administrations to vulnerable people. Even though the lack of assumptions meant that we could not provide the Energy Poverty Fund with 10_million euros, we did not pass 3.85 to the municipal authorities to get them to the families that need them quickly, and we agreed with thirteen water sub-ministrators to ensure that the sub-ministration of vulnerable households is not interrupted. The fourth: we have created, and we keep constantly updated the register of empty habitats, an indispensable tool also for all the assemblies and that serves to sanction or force the cessation of large habitats that carry long empty spaces. Actions, all of them, that have a clear result: more than 65,800 lllars that receive public support in housing matter; 3,700 denominations avoided in the year, more than 2,800 thanks to the mediation of Ofideute and about 30,000 habitats to the Fons d'habitatages de lloger intended for social policies. Away: recovery of trust in institutions that guarantee the active participation of the citizenry. The country needs to regain confidence in politics and its institutions. In order to achieve this, we have a net country of corruption, a form of governance of open doors and shared policies that work because the citizens are fully informed and can participate in the decision-making process. Also, in this camp, we have to say, we are more advanced than the Spanish State: the Catalan Law of Transparency, access to information and good governance forces us more and better, and the work already goes on. In 2011, for example, we set aside the Office for the Evaluation and Supervision of Public Contracts, the job of which has been installed as an example of good practice for the European Commission. From then on, all contracts and their variations are published every two weeks, as well as the destination of public subsidies. We created the Català Tribunal de Contractes del Sector Public to strengthen the guarantees of control and transparency. Since 2013, we have been publishing on the portal of transparency under and under the diets of the high bodies, as well as their heritage variations. The NGO Transparency International has awarded the Generality the highest score in its index based on eighty indicators and is thus the most transparent Administration of the State. We want, tanmateix, an administration that is always like a glass building with transparent walls under the ever-present gaze of the citizenry. In 2015, we set aside the Register of Interest Groups and, as a result of the performance protocol applicable to the relations of the higher ranks with interest groups, we have already reached five hundred registered interest groups with the expectation of arriving at eight hundred at the end of the year. We will also create a single register of Catalan interest groups for all Catalan institutions that avoids that each group must manage its own register and that interest groups must register at different locations. Again, I would like to point out that there is no – no – specific rule in the Spanish State dedicated to interest groups, and therefore we are admiring ourselves in the most advanced European regulations in Europe. One of the most sensitive and risky sectors is public procurement. It highlights, in this sense, the approval of the last Highlight, of the Law Decree in the matter of public contract in order to remedy the inactivity of the Spanish State at the time of transposing the European directives and which will be accompanied by two consecutive initiatives. First, the Law on service contracts to the persons we are drawing up, and, second, the Catalan Law on public sector contracts as one of the laws to be governed by the Catalan contract mark. We need to strengthen the ethical leaderships in the institutions themselves, to have public directives that are conscious of strengthening the integrity of the public sector in Catalonia. Last June we approved the Code of Conduct of the High Levels of the Generality and it was constituted the Committee Alderman of Public Ethics, the organ that will vet for its compliment, a code that will extend to the entire public sector mediating the recent constituted Committee for the elaboration of the Code of Ethics of the public service of Catalonia. We must recognize that we have a quality administration that we want to become an administration of excellence. If we see the next thirty-six years, we can say that it has been a success. If we look at the next fifty years we can say that we want to be a case of excellence. We want to work for a professional, transparent, ethical, innovative, technological and well-trained civil service administration. This is why we are advancing in the reform of the Administration of the Generality and its public sector and in the tools of professionalization and training advancing in the transformation of the School of Public Administration of Catalonia into the National School of Government and Public Administration or approving the National Plan of Public Procurement of Innovation 2016-2020. This reform makes us aware that we have a great deal of debt with all public servants, so it's just that they recover their labor rights and, to the extent of availability, their economic rights. And we are making all the necessary efforts, such as the return of the 2012 extra pay or the salary increase of '1_per_cent, and we must continue to dialogue to resolve pending issues, aware that they are a right of our workers and workers. One of these issues is the adjournment of public service access calls that we have experienced in the past few years. In this sense, the announcement that 2017's assumptions include a call for 7,000 places of work, including 2,500 doctors and nurses, 2,000 masters, 500 squadron movements, 150 bombers, 300 tax personnel, among others. Mostly they are places of essential services that will make up part of the capital of the Administration that we want from the present and the future. In this sense, all levels of administration are important, but the assemblies have a vital importance in the day-to-day management of our country and, above all, in giving rapid response to the needs of our citizens; they are the first line of fire. That's why this government is very clear that the generality and the local world we have to work folded, we have to go grabbing hands, and that's why it's essential to refer to two very concrete questions: the debt and the future. First, on the debt: we have made decisions to reduce it significantly. Thanks, for example, to the collaboration of the deputies to advance the payment of 87,6_million euros of municipal debt or the extensions of credit for the payment to local works of the PUOSC 2008-2014, 4,1_millions; of actions linked to the Feder, 20,7_millions; or of actions already girls to the Barley, 8,2_millions, and we will continue in this line. That's why, too, we claim the money you give us the State. Only by managing the money that is ours will we be able to put out support plans and inversion to the municipality, such as the ancient PUOSC. But we don't just stay in the complaint or the complaint, because when we have opportunities to look for resources – we look for resources – and we put them at the bottom of the municipalities and the districts, which is the case, for example, of the calls for ERDF aid for a value of 95_million euros; the 14_million achieved, for example, in cross-border projects, etc. And the second question: the future. Our society has changed, the country has changed, the world has changed, and this requires our institutional and competitive design – and, therefore, our model of territorial organization and local administration – evolutions in consonance. And we do it in the form of a debate process under the name local governments. and which must give us some conclusions that serve to define what the local administration of the future should be like, with the aim of developing the foundations of the laws to govern the future of the local governments of Catalonia. In this look in the future we also want to initial the national pact for the digital society as an agreement of great abst between the Generalitat, the deputies and the municipalist entities to take a great step forward in the deployment of the strategy of intelligent territories, to deploy in a coordinated way the technological infrastructures, to advance in cybersecurity and to promote a new digital administration. New apart: a safe and just country, come from where you come and stay as you are. Despite all the changes that we constantly live in our customs and our ways of relating to us, there are intrinsic values to the human condition that are more critical than ever and security is one of them, for its universal character and essentially fairness. Catalonia is a safe country, and the data says so. Criminal acts registered in Catalonia accumulate a 9_per_cent decrease in the last four years. It produces 47,348 criminal acts less than in the last four years. And in the past year crimes against people have dropped by 8.5_per_cent and against assets by 1_per_cent. We therefore have good security policies based on prevention, proximity and service vocation, with the sole purpose of being useful to the citizenry. Our system guarantees answers to problems, risks and needs in the field of security. That's why we approved the 2016-2019 General Safety Board of Catalonia, which establishes the strategy in the field of safety for the next four years with measures related to gender violence, speeding up the reels or preventive management of risk situations, among others. One of the most recent risks included in this plan is the nine forms of terrorist threat that we are fighting with the specific counter-terrorism operational programme, which regulates, orders and directs counter-terrorism measures, and with a contingencies for the fight against terrorism of EUR 11.5 million, mainly for external hours and for technical means of investigation, training in nine police stations and the purchase of specific materials. In this line, let's hope that the proper assumptions arrive at a good place and we can materialize the incorporation, too, of the steps we had planned to incorporate this 2016. But without any doubt, the best strategy to combat any type of threat is through police cooperation and intelligence. The Government of Catalonia stands by all police forces, and, for this reason, has demanded the integration of the Mosso d'Esquadra into the assessment table of the terrorist threat and the Centre d'Intel·ligence against Terrorism and Organized Crime, at the state level. The Spanish State is pursuing its policy of not providing the Squadron Mosses with state and international police data, of not allowing Europol and Interpol to participate directly, of not passing the EUR 532 million debt to expand the staff, among others, and this does have an impact on the security of our citizens, and that is why we want to have a similar state. The new forms of crime take shape in the cybernetic field; we have promoted the draft law creating the agency of cybersecurity in Catalonia, the body that will be in charge of responding to digital threats and cybersecurity incidents. Last week we approved the Strategic Plan of the Directorate General for Prevention, Fire Extinguishing and Rescues 2017-2022, which with an investment of 207_million euros previews to update and reverse the current situation of the Bomber Cos. It will address the deployment of effects, the renewal and incorporation of new vehicles, materials and costumes, among others. All in all, we've already called 153 fire stations and you'll be working to get into practice during the 2017 forest campaign, and 350 volunteer fire stations. In parallel, we have approved the decree regulating the operational guard of the firefighters, with the aim of consolidating the system of command of the emergencies. All the efforts the Administration is making to reduce road leftlessness are insufficient – they are insufficient – while there are mortal victims and heavy injuries. In less than fifteen days, we have had to regret – the first to Freginals and the third to Pont de Molins – accidents with the greatest number of victims since we took on transit competitions. Although the trend is positive and fatal victims by traffic accident have fallen by 38_percent since 2010, we will not rest until we reach zero victims. In this sense, we have set off an offensive against the use of mobile phone in the conduction and wear of the belt, since this is 20_percent of mortal victims does not have to string the belt, and distracts them, like the mobile, a 35_percent. More preventive and comprehensive controls, give us new technology mobile radars and a new sanctioning radar to the helicopter of the Catala Transit Service, and also communication campaigns, such as "Death or" At the wheel, sort the right way. Security is also to have an effective and impartial justice, which should be one of the most carefree institutions. Thinking about what justice we want for the future brings us, inexorably, to talk about an administration of modern justice, fast, efficient and closeness that can offer a public service of quality to the citizen and build a more just, inclusive and cohesive country. I won't talk to them about bringing them to court, about prisons, about deprivation of liberty, about punishment; I'll talk to them about what's going on in the future, about reinsertion and accompanying the press to the community. Data indicates that recidivism is reduced to half when inmates progressively contact the outside world. This is why we have put in place an agreement with social entities to accompany in the best possible way the people who each year come out of prison and to empower the maximum, as much as possible, the open regime. We also have the potential for alternative criminal measures, where possible, through the dimensioning of public services and the sensitisation of judgments, since these are beneficial in various dimensions: they do not prevent the person from quitting while completing the sentence or performing the treatment, ensuring a rehabilitation success of 90_per_cent of the cases and cost a_design_part of the resources that the person entered into the prison. Catalonia's justice must also be in Catalan and at present only 8.4_percent of the judicial resolutions handed down in Catalonia are written in Catalan. The data is alarming and does not reflect its social use. That is why we have reached an agreement with the Spanish State because the proof of access to the lawyer can be made in catalá; an agreement, that is to say, above the recommendation of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe to guarantee the presence of co-official languages in the State Administration. One of the ways we have managed to improve the efficiency of the Administration is precisely in the specialization and training of people working there and, in this sense, we are driving various initiatives. First, we are implementing justice personnel's expertise in the different areas of the right as measured to improve productivity, efficiency and quality of the system's joint. It is a historical complaint of the workers and it has had a very good gathering between experts and professionals. Secondly, we have extended until the year 2020 the cycle of FP in administration and management in the legal field and we will prioritise in the stock exchange the persons who have this title; and thirdly, the training programme in human rights and Istanbul protocol directed to all professionals of the prison system, and which thanks to our assumptions will be able to strengthen. At the legislative level, I think we need to highlight two elements. First, the approval of the Catalan Civil Code's book on bonds and contracts, now before Parliament, and which will allow the completion of the process of codification of the Catalan civil law after more than two years of work. Thus, we have begun to work on the pre-draft law of dignified death, with the aim of solving the problem that arises with a person's digital heritage when that person dies or is declared unfit. And in this matter let's give back advanced country shows. And if we're talking about digital memory, we also need to talk about historical memory, and more enchantment, than we're commemorating the twenty-eighth anniversary of the Civil War's incisor. Spain is the country of Europe with the most missing people and, like the Government, we have the conviction that it should promote the search for truth, justice and reparation. That is why we have set aside the Genetic Identification Program for Disappeared Persons during the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship, a pioneering initiative, to identify missing family members. Because in a normal state they would seek solutions to conflicts; people would make sure to talk or negotiate; they would weave complicity and consensus. That would be a normal state. On the other hand, what we find is the will to silence memories, to use the courts, to retouch the story in the text books and, sometimes, to return in time. "The greatest challenge to the unity of the Spanish nation since 6 October 1934, as the minister of foreign affairs in office, has been hastening to say with reference to the ballot box proposal that I proposed last week. Desè y derrer apart: a Catalonia present and active in the world. With reference to foreign policy, we have the clear will to foster a necessary and legitimate structure, as well as the pressures of the Spanish State. First, through the Constitutional Court, with the intention of constantly blocking our action, the Spanish State deploys all its external services to counter the international action of the Government of Catalonia also in those fields of action for which we have full competence and which conform part of the usual and traditional activity. Even this attempt to block, we continue to promote relations with priority countries for the interests of the citizens of Catalonia, speaking to you personally before the European Union and the world. To support this action, we have begun the deployment of the platform of delegations with the creation of four nine delegations to Europe and which must continue to expand to the rest of the continents as well. In fact, if we had approved the assumptions we could have reached the said delegations. External action is not only necessary to explain with your own eyes the situation in Catalonia and the relationship with the Spanish State, but to project Catalonia into the economic, cultural and linguistic spheres, because if we do not do so, the Spanish diploma we pay, this too, with our taxes. In this sense, our best presentation letter is not just delegations, but also our businesses, as I said before, our culture, our gastronomy, obviously our sportsmen. In a camp where Spanish diplomacy makes it possible to avoid the international recognition of Catalan sports selections, our Olympic athletes take part in eight of the state Olympic medals and in eleven of the thirty-one Paralympic medals; all a recognition, in fact, of the Catalan sport and the Centre d'Alt Rendiment de Sant Cugat. And there are also our ambassadors all those Catalans and Catalans who see the foreigner and to whom we must give you in the decisions of the country, and we will do so for two lifetimes: firstly, with the Catalan Community Law Project abroad, approved at the beginning of September, which strengthens the register of Catalans residing in the foreigner, and, secondly, with the electronic vote. On 27 September, as in other elections – 27 September 2015 – there were almost 200,000 Catalans for whom voting was an odyssey in time, travel, economic costs, and in the end only one_de_cada_tretze was able to vote. This, in a country and in a state that is democratic, cannot be allowed, because it is a shame. [[Greetings.]] That is why we have worked on the electronic voting project for all Catalans and Catalans who are abroad. It is a safe and reliable voting procedure, which is already used by other states of the world, and we want it to be able to work from the own elections that we hold in Catalonia, because there is no more city to see its right to vote restricted. This has been the occasion for us to expand, in contrast to the positions of the groups, and to clarify all the information that I am convinced of, which has represented the government's action of these new months, looking at it with a long look, because some of the policies are continuations of the previous ones, and betting on where the second section of this legislature will follow. I was starting my intervention, now it's a sham, with a reference to the first law approved by the presiding government, the Climate Change Law, and I'm ending this intervention with one of my own laws that my government, the electronic voting law, will approve. Therefore, as a cloenda, the setbacks and the recovery of my initial commitments: the problems of the world are the problems of Catalonia, and add: « For this reason we must have our own vision; this is not a project of the Government, but a challenge of a sincere country, and add: « For this we will put the ballots; it has a central impact on the prosperity and economic model of the country, and add: « To follow as this has a direct impact on our businesses and their workers; to rethink our daily life from sustainability, and add: « To remain immobile is not sustainable, and it has an impact on the well-being of the community, and add: « Our cultural singularity and our welfare state are only. We are at a transcendental moment in our history and, unlike other times and other highlights, today the decisions are taken by voting, and the future of Catalonia will have to decide – we have to decide – all Catalans and Catalans with their vote, for our sake and for our children's sake. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.5.0	Thank you very much, President. After the President's speech, does any parliamentary group call for the session to be suspended? Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.6.0	To request the momentary suspension of the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.7.0	Okay. The session is suspected up to three-quarters of a half-day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.8.0	It's part of the session. In the first place has the word Inés Arrimadas, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.9.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, Mr. President, today we have the general policy debate; it's a couple of years ago that didn't go anywhere, here in the chamber, since the year 2014, and the truth is that many things haven't changed very much. Actually, I read the speech that the president made but two years ago, and the truth is that I've found a lot of things that are repeated, like nine promises, in his speech. I believe that a general policy debate should be used to make a respite of which is the political situation in Catalonia; I also see what has been done by the Government since the general policy debate, and to make an announcement of which are the proposals that will mark the line of government. I, the one who found his speech, and I've heard it a lot more carefully, because I like to adapt the speech to what you say... I've seen many things that have been said many years ago, and many proposals many years ago. In fact, phrases that are based on what the Lord said but makes a couple of years. I've also noticed, certainly, a triumphalism that I'm under a lot, haven't I? At the time of describing what the situation in Catalonia is, I can only tell you that we do not share for anything the triumphalist to which you have shown today and which we can then comment on. It looks like it's all right, and I didn't just hear it, if it's all right, why do we have to leave Spain? If we're so good and everything works so well, I don't understand what the reason you're defending to get out of here is, right? Looks like we're perfect. You have spoken of questions that are not being made by the government, but that have been approved by Parliament for opposition reasons and that you have an obligation to do so. And, in fact, he made reference to all the laws that are from other opposition parties, motions that are also from Ciutadans, and, man, I think that only copyright rights can be respected at the time of intervention. Then, of course, you have avoided talking about many questions, which we will talk about now, which we are concerned about and which I understand that you, in a long and timeless speech, might have found a way out to talk to us. We only have thirty minutes, but I think the Parliament needs to hear a full government project, and I think you made a big speech today, but some things have been left behind. And, of course, we didn't find any self-criticism, no one. You're the one who's never wrong, they've never mismanaged. He didn't make a self-criticism, no self-criticism, no self-criticism. I believe that the general policy debate is demonstrated every day, not just one day a year – in this case one day every two years, because of the political situation in Catalonia – but it is a debate and a speech that must be kept for the rest of the year. And I think his star proposal, his project for Catalonia, we know what it is, that it is to separate Catalonia from the rest of Spain. And now they're back a little bit to talk about the reference again. But I honestly believe that the other day, when you asked for the confidence of the chamber, you did not ask for the confidence for a country project, for social or economic priorities; you asked for the confidence of the chamber on the basis of a very clear line, which is that of the separation and that of the referendum. Therefore, I believe that, just as you did not talk about all these issues in the confidence movement, I believe that these are not the priority lines of the Government. Say that, what's the current situation? I, as I said before, cannot share the diagnosis you have made of Catalonia, honestly I say so. And I'm worried; I'm worried, because the triumphalism that I've felt today is not close to a president who knows the social emergence that we have in Catalan society. And maybe that's a subjective perception, obviously, but it seemed to me that he didn't have enough sensitivity to know... which is the situation we have in Catalonia. I believe, moreover, that he has made a triumphalism that seemed to me very much the triumphalism that the PP government does, sincerely, very much; phrases also based on those spoken by Mr. Mariano Rajoy or to those sometimes spoken by some of his ministers. And I think that this euphoria, frankly, with the situation of social emergence, is not the most profound of the situation. And, in addition, he also remembers the speeches of the Government of Spain because they triumph over a band, but after victimism. That is to say, all that's good is because you're very good – in fact, you're taking data from Catalonia in which we've always been ahead of all of Spain, and so it's not a good thing that you can put your act as a government – but after everything that's gone wrong, it's not your fault: it's your fault, it's Spain, or it's "Spain in clothes, or it's" the CUP doesn't leave us with the assumptions. Home, can we find some self-criticism space to mismanage? Catalonia, and this is known throughout Europe, is one of the regions of Europe with the most self-government. I should have a little bit more self-criticism. And I'm worried, I'm really worried that the president isn't in this social sensitivity that we think it's what he's supposed to have, right? And that, I'm telling you, it's a very subjective perception and that obviously you can be-there or not-there. You've focused on macro data, like President Rajoy. And it's true, it's obvious: we come from a situation in which we have touched the ground, which we have touched – forgive – alone, earth – forgive. We have touched land, and therefore it is easy – it is easy – that the vagina macro data grow, because we come from a place where we have never been for decades. And, therefore, I believe that if you are only fixed, as President Rajoy does, in these macro data, you will lose the micro reality, the reality of families. And I think it's... you talking so much about disconnecting Catalonia, I think the government needs to connect better with Catalan reality. Because maybe you're talking that we're already better, maybe, and all we can hear from your speech is that we're getting out of the crisis... but I think you sometimes talk about getting out of the crisis, but you only talk about those who didn't get in before the crisis. We, in Catalonia – and you haven't commented on it – have more than a hundred and a thousand children with severe material deprivations. You may not have said that we have more than 1 million people at risk of social exclusion. Perhaps they haven't said that we have two million people in Catalonia who can't face unforeseen expenses, who can't afford the renter, who can't keep their eyes on the kids, and who can't cope with these expenses. And, therefore, I believe that the president of this society should have a little more objectivity at the time of analyzing, simply simply, the society he governs, right? I want to talk about it, too, because we talked a lot about it today. The truth is, the data isn't particularly good today, but I think... I want to talk about the main concern of Catalans, which is the weather. And it is not good for a reason: it is obvious that the occupation has fallen, it has also to be analyzed with an obvious seasonality component, I will not deny it, but Catalonia is under other autonomous communities growing in occupation, and therefore it is not a particularly good data for us. But I don't want to fix only quantitative data, but qualitative data. We are growing under a paranoia that is false, under a base of growth that are not the ones that can guarantee us a better future for our own generations. And, besides, we believe that it is a structural problem; it is not a conjunctural problem of the crisis. No, no, it's structural, and you have a lot to see, too, with this. Active employment policies are the competence of the Generality, and now we will talk about them, but they are a competence of the Government of the Generality; therefore, they also have competences. And, as far as labour law is concerned, I will tell you again something that I know is not very grateful to you, but it is that the labour law we have in Spain is exactly the same as what you voted for in the Congress of Deputies and that, therefore, you have its complicity, even though your parliamentary support was neither necessary nor necessary. Therefore, they had to be very agreed – very agreed – to give support to a regulation that didn't even need their votes at the Congress. You talk about something that I'm very concerned about, that it's the European feeling that you say that in Spain labor law is absolutely unfair and that we have workers who do the same job, the same job, but that depending on the contract they have less rights. We totally agree, and in fact– in fact– Citizens opened the melo of this topic. We were very criticized – you, a little bit; others, more – when we put on the table measures to try to reverse this situation. But I'm telling you: don't talk about this in third person, don't talk about this as the European Union telling the Government of Spain that it's wrong. You are responsible for the labour regulations that we have in Spain, and, moreover, it is that the Catalan Public Administration is also in this situation, denounced by the High Court of Justice of the European Union. You abuse, like the rest of the autonomous communities and the rest of the administration, models and contracts of interinitiation and temporality to donate basic services. And that, I'd like to know what you're going to do to reverse it, which is the model you have. We already know that from the work model you gave that yes and ok in Madrid and, therefore, are responsible for it; but what model do you propose to manage it between your own Administration? How will that affect...? What do you have in mind, Mr President, that affects the Catalan Public Administration? Then, speaking of the past, you have passed through the past of the past, of the Youth Guarantee... The Youth Guarantee as it is being implemented, which you have not really talked about, is not complete the expectations either from the quantitative point of view or from the qualitative point of view. And I'd like to know who his priorities are, Mr President, and who respects one of the programmes that, in keeping with youth, were the most important that had been done at European level and that you had also taken over Catalonia. Then, the data of the women's twilight. In some indicators, there is an increase in work inequality between men and women, even with this macroeconomic recovery of the economy. And we're worried, and we're very worried. And we want to know, you know, what you want to do to reverse this situation. Then, respect the plight of people over fifty-five years of age, they're falling behind, a lot of people. While growing a low-quality occupation, while you speak with this triumphalism of economic recovery, we have thousands of people – thousands of people – who can't find help, who can't find hope. And this has a lot to do with active employment policies. I know that this government did not characterise itself to believe in active employment policies. And I like to remember the phrase that Counsellor Puig said of active employment policies, saying that it was a kind of pal·liatiu service. Well, we don't agree. And, in fact, we have proposed measures to ensure that these active employment policies are comparable at European level. The insertion fee for the Catalonian Occupational Service is less than 5_per_cent; I don't want to compare it with the rest of European countries, because it's even unpleasant. But what do you think you're doing to improve the quality... the insertion of these people? He did not talk about – he did not talk about – the model of active employment policies; he did not talk about it, which is his model of his programs. I don't speak only of assumptions– I don't speak only of assumptions. Because, Mr. President, I'm worried about something that you do sometimes and that other governments do: that you sometimes just focus on how much money we have in every cove. And that's very important, because that marks the priorities of a government, and with theirs we don't agree. But, more than just how much money we spend on everything, it's got to be very good at how they spend that money, and what's the pattern of policies you want to talk about. But you don't want to talk about this; you say that with independence you are very rich and we will have the highest pensions and a very high minimum wage, but to talk about modeling, to manage reality, they don't like to talk about it. Besides, I want to tell you something about the fact that you don't speak either; and I don't know if you don't want to talk about it or are not aware of it. And there are territorial inequalities between Catalonia. The differences between different provinces, not to mention comarques, are abysmal. And when you make these economic recovery speeches, let's know that you may be speaking from a very small part of Catalonia, but that you are leaving many parts of Catalonia that do not share this model or this situation; because we have more territorial inequalities between Catalonia than between Catalonia and any other autonomous community in Spain. And you talk a lot about comparisons with the rest of the autonomous communities and how much they give us... but what about their policies to dissolve these territorial inequalities, to fight these territorial inequalities between Catalonia? I'm telling you why he didn't even talk about it. And when you talk about economic data sometimes, you know that you're not talking about all the Catalans, but maybe you're talking about Catalans because of the place where they live... and so alone, too, about the collection, as we've seen before. After that, it is obvious that because of the problem of the environment, which is the main problem of Catalans – not what is our passport, nor what is our nationality, no, no: the environment and precariousness – we have many concrete proposals, here and at the Congress. And we've talked about contracting issues to make it complete to what the Supreme Court of Justice hears – before I say it, for sure –; autonomous issues; reconciliation issues, because we're worried – and I didn't hear it – about how the woman, in this supposed recovery, and another issue that you didn't even mention – or I didn't hear it – is that it's labor-related. Labor left-handedness is growing, and it's also obvious – it's also obvious – partly because of growth, we know, but what is its model? What are you doing? What will the Government of the Generality do to assert its powers in this sense as well? How will it coordinate better with the rest of the inspection stuff why is this a real fight at the time of the real work? I have not heard him speak and, to us, it is an issue that we are very concerned about and that we can also talk about our proposals for this House. Later, we also want to talk about a great concern for Catalans, which is dependence and social needs. Actually, when I hear certain speeches I'm worried that you don't know what the reality of Catalonia is; that you don't know it or that you don't want to see it, that I don't know what's worse, don't you? More than the chronic situation we can hold all of Spain, which is obvious and for which the Government of Spain is also responsible, obviously there are differences between Catalonia and the rest of the autonomous communities. And here, in many indicators of dependence, we are at the bottom of many other autonomous communities. And that's his responsibility, that's his responsibility for priority and for his headship in the issue of building summer structures while we don't meet people. Catalonia is the only autonomous community, according to the sector, where the number of people reached in the past year has dropped. We have a waiting list, which if the population is kept in the same situation, is to say, if there are no more dependent people, we would cheat for years on ending this waiting list. But, for the rest of Spain – which is also very much – this four-year term is serious. So, as you explain, without taking this eternal explanation and what is it for the evil government of Spain, why do we have these differences? Why do we have empty seats in Catalonia and have some lists of hope that we don't have the rest of Spain? Many people, in Catalonia, will die waiting for your promises, Mr Puigdemont, will die hoping that in the happy archadia of independence here will not suffer anyone. And, this... I think it's time to manage the reality that we have now and I'd like you to explain to me how you intend to do it. I insist, it is not just a matter of assumptions because, in matters of waiting lists, we have presented a proposal for law that speaks of waiting lists to health, education, dependence, etc., and you did not want or speak. They have presented a message to the totality, when it is not only a theme, I insist, of resources – which also – but it is also a theme of how we serve these resources, the transparency that we give it. But, you, of that, don't... you, many laws of disconnection but dependency don't want to talk about it, do you? Then, education... because, to me, I'm also worried that you're always, all day, with the success model, right? And, really, to all of Spain... we can't say instead of all of Spain that it's a success model, if we compare with other European models, right? But it's that, in Catalonia, with you as president, Mr. Mas, Mr. Puigdemont [[the speaker laughs]] I'm sorry, with you as president... [[Widow's remorse.]] If there are things... the speech was so much like, sometimes, I confound them. With you as president, Mr Puigdemont, there are more embassies and more barracks. With you as president... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, and we got the dice, yeah. You talk about a success model – you talk about a success model – but it turns out that Catalonia is more affected by the socioeconomic situation of families as a result of students than in the middle of the rest of Spain. And is this a model that guarantees equality? No, no, We are above the Spanish medium regarding the link between the socioeconomic situation of families and the results of students. And that's a reality. You're looking at reality, Mr Puigdemont. We also tell Mr Rajoy, « look at the reality of what is happening in Catalonia, yes, but look at you too at the reality of what is happening in Catalonia. And I'm not saying it's just your responsibility, because you've been running new months, and I like to be very curious at the time of demanding responsibilities, but look at your responsibility as well. Another time she may not like it and, in fact, I'm aware that they don't like us talking about it, to the advisors and advisors of Education. In Catalonia, the results of people coming from outside, from a collection with more difficulties, as can be immigrants, we are very, very, very close to each other; we are at home; in ESO graduates of immigrants we cannot get any more out of our results, of immigrants, respect the rest of Spain. Do you think you're gonna get better at this? I said for a simple reason. When I feel them talking about an educated model, the only thing I feel is a "success model," "we have to defend it, but if they don't recognize that there's a problem they can't be able to solve it. Therefore, I ask you: do you know these data? Do you want to do something to fix it? Or will you follow with the mantra of the « success model without seeing the reality? Then, another thing that you didn't name, didn't mention, did you? : the debt of the Generality. You think that a president of the Generality, in a general policy debate, of an autonomous community that is the most indebted of Spain, that has 75,000_million euros of debt, that this is a loose that they tend, no longer the children only the grandchildren and the besnets or the "tataranets", or I know. How can you not even spell out the question of the debt? , which has certainly increased from what you are president. Because I will not make him responsible for the 75,000_million_euro debt, but perhaps for the increase yes. And you will tell me: "No, that's what, the problem is of the Spanish State, which scans us. And why are other autonomous communities with the same funding system that we have much less debt? Why? [[Widow's remorse.]] No, and that, plus you're defending it, right? I like to remind myself of the words of the high mayor of Barcelona, Mr Trias, when he made the comparison between the Barcelona Assembly and the Madrid Assembly, and, in fact, it is true that in terms of debt there is nothing to see, there is no comparison possible, but the same public administration, with the same level of deficit, with the same funding system, depending on how it is managed, can have more debt or not. And you should assume your responsibility. They didn't even mention it. Does it seem normal to you, Mr. President, really? That I think it's one of the hardest economic problems we have in Catalonia, because it keeps us from doing a lot of things, because we have to pay for the interests, and you want to get over it. And, in addition, this debt is making promises that with independence we will pay more pensions and be richer. Do you want to make an explanation? Do you want to take responsibility for this? Regarding other questions of working... We are the only ones – the only ones – in Catalonia, that we have not paid when working the 2012 pay; it is also the fault of the rest of Spain, when the rest of Spain has paid the working ones? In short, you've had a lot of time; we don't have time to respond to everything you've said, but it does seem important to us to put on the table which government priorities have been. You have increased and want to increase the Foreign Department's budget by 42_per_cent, and then say you don't have money to do other things. You want to increase the history, not because you are at the taxpayers' service, no, no; because you are at the service of a cause, which is independence, a 13_per_cent. I'll give you examples that are very graphic, won't I? Because sometimes small things get better. With the 9_million euros that you seem to want to spend the Catalan DNI, I don't know, or that you spent at the 9-N consultation, by the way, you could afford nine hundred residential places. Who's his priority? At the time of having limited resources – and I recognize it – what is its priority? Or, for example, with the import that you want to increase for the department of Mr. Romeva – which has just arrived, sorry, was not prepared – you could pay the bonuses of the autonomes of all of Catalonia to increase the flat rate of the six-months at the split, which is when the entities of the autonomes tell us that it is more dangerous to maintain their activity. What do you want: embassies for Mr. Romeva or help the autonomous, with bonuses, of Catalonia? Who needs it most? More delegations, or do the locals need more resources and help from the generality? I don't want to talk about "political syringuites, don't I? We are not, of course, at number 1 among all the autonomous communities – seventy entities more than Andalusia, which is also an example of management, eh? , seventy more – but more have grown up during your government; with your government there are more "political syllables, more embassies, more barracks, Mr. Puigdemont, and that..., you should do some – I suppose, huh? – self-criticism. Certainly, they did not approve of any law, only one law, which was for the subject of changing the name to this entity of culture, which, moreover, was to comply with a legal requirement. Go on, head of it. Not so many things have happened since the general policy debate, Mr Puigdemont, good for Catalonia, haven't they? So, what balance can we make? Is there more social justice, more equality and more opportunities? No, no, Is there more coordination with the rest of public administrations to fight against fraud, to fight against labour leftlessness, to ultimately, to have a more efficient administration? No, no, Is there less corruption? You've spoken more than an hour, an hour and an hour, haven't you? Or almost an hour and a half, and he said only once, if I didn't feel bad, huh? , the word "corruption, the second concern of the citizens – the second. I know it's very uncomfortable. You are more comfortable talking about reference, independence, than being very wealthy when we declare independence, than not about the debt, the labor sinisterity, the corruption... I know he doesn't like it very much, but I think the citizen does like it. And we will bring, again, proposals in this House to see what their commitment is to the fight against corruption. Do we have more self-criticism? Something, one alone, just one, they say, "Look, we've been wrong about this and we haven't managed it well. No, no, Now yes – now yes – what we have are the most embassies, laws of disconnection that raise references..., but of the rest, nothing of nothing. You're so focused on building a state that you're unpacking the welfare state. You are so focused on independent Catalonia that you are forced to manage it; the reality, the 7_million_i_mig of people. And, besides, we don't know which model they have certain questions. As a matter of taxation, for example, I think we can talk about it and see some differences. What kind of tax do you want to tax in Catalonia? What's his tax model? We already know they want more tax agency and more resources to be their tax agency, huh? Because you're in the service of independence. But what's his model to fight the tax fraud? To gain efficiency? What is his model of taxes for middle classes and workers and the autonomes of Catalonia, Mr. Puig, [[the speaker laughs]] Mr. Puigdemont [[remorse of the voice]] – Now I was thinking about the pal·liatius services of active employment policies. You ask for more skills; you ask for more skills and do not recognize that sometimes those you have do not know how to manage them well. You didn't talk about the ATLL today, for example. How much will it cost the Catalans, the ATLL? We know we're waiting for a court resolution, but do you have scenes of how much it's gonna cost? Tell them, explain them, to the Catalans, how much their mismanagement will cost them. I do not say 'his personal, but his government and his political colour. Line 9 of the subway. We talk many times about empty infrastructures to the rest of Spain, that is true; but here too we should look at how we manage our infrastructures. We have an extra cost of €4,000_million. Is that Spain's fault, too? Really? Can't they even recognize that? They cannot even recognize: "Look, in this we are wrong, in our own fault, we take it; but of this and of this, is it of the rest of Spain? Can't you do this clarity or honesty exercise? I think it should be done. And before we talk about sustainable mobility, why don't you say that the subway is losing passengers in the past year? And that was recognized by Mr. Counsellor Rull. Or why don't you talk about the management of the Segarra-Garrigues channel? The pages too... do you think the pages are thinking that everything is Spain's fault? When has the share of the Spanish government been made and you cannot or do not want to prioritise your share of the secondary network's connection? What do they explain to the pages? We are talking about a phonental – phonental – infrastructure for a sector of our economy, such as the agricultural sector. In short, you're wrong, too. You sometimes don't connect or disconnect. You're the one who barely spends Catalan money. And it has to be recognizable, and that's all right, isn't it? And, in addition, he thanked me very much for asking for European harmonisation of the tax system, of the market unit, and of immigration policy, but then they want this to be only at the level of Catalonia from Spain. A project that involves the exit of the European Union and which, more than any other partner, a party that is openly opposed to the European Union cannot appeal to European principles, because its project is contradictory to the European Union's project. In short, we will present in this plenary proposals, and will explain to them tomorrow the group's spokesman, Mr Carlos Carrizosa, and we will talk about the three axes that for us are most important for Catalonia: the creation of employment and economic recovery, social policies and political regeneration and the fight against corruption. These will be our priorities. And we already know who our priorities were at the Congress of Deputies. While you are only asking for a reference, we have asked for measures that you have asked for here today. For example: payoff, Mediterranean corridor, financing system, eliminating pardons... Well, that's not what they asked for, it's true, because they've benefited many times, but that's what we asked for at the Congress. And it's the difference in projects, Mr. Puigdemont. I think one day we'll have to talk about which Catalonia we want – which is which Catalonia we want. And we do not want a Catalonia that is done all day the victim, a Government of the Generality that is done the victim, but that leads; a Government of the Generality that does not say things that cannot be accomplished, but that is realistic; a Government of the Generality that has a sensible project and for all, inclusive, and a Government of the Generality that seeks consensus, not that I bridge with the rest of Spain. And I, I don't know if I'll have time, but I really want to get back, honestly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.10.0	No, Mrs. Arrimadas, you don't have time, ya, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.11.0	I don't have time. All right, perfect. Thank you, Madam President. I don't have time, maybe I'll keep it to the second line. In conclusion, Mr Puigdemont: we need a Catalonia of people, not a Catalonia of a concrete ideology, as you defend; we need a Catalonia that thinks of the realistic future, and not that it neglects the reality of today for a future that will never arrive, and we need a government that is realistic, dialogueable and sensible. I am convinced that this government will arrive in Catalonia. What I have a lot of doubts about is that I can be led by you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.12.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Next, the words of Mr Miquel Iceta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.13.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, last week a majority of this Parliament once again gave him confidence, a confidence which is conditional on celebrating, yes or yes, a reference to the year he sees. Finally, this is reflected in the resolution published in the official journal. In fact, he says: "At the end of the legislature. But the legislature finishes the year you see, huh? At least that's what the full route was all about. I quote the resolution because it is true that since we did not have any questions of trust it was the first time that there was an agreement. And, curiously, I was told that it could have been limited to saying that the president had obtained confidence, but he wanted to put the fact of the reference as a condition of this majority confidence. You said a "referendum given, which I believe will be impossible to negotiate, among other things because no one will want to negotiate it with a government that has already said that the organization will pass what it passes, or a reference organized by Vice President Junqueras and Councillor Romeva, lacking, from our point of view, all the elements that should do it legal, valid and binding. If this reference were made, as 9-N passed, nothing would change. From our point of view, they are only proposed to broaden the process, not to solve the problem. I have already announced that one of our proposals for a resolution has put our approach back into this matter. Mr President, you have made a statement that I would like to answer, although perhaps you did not address us. We do not flee agreements if agreements are possible. Nor do we escape the recognition of good work when it is produced. For some reason, we will certainly not address any of the issues in which we have coincidences, which we do not have. We will focus on the critical aspects of your speech, and the proposals will be made in the debate on the resolutions. And I'm beginning to say that what we've been worried about is a certain idyllic image of the country that can be detached from its speech and that is not in keeping with the difficult social crisis that we are experiencing. Last week you managed to extend the government's action a few more months, and we don't think this debate can add us elements to fix what should be its objective, the political orientation of the government. You should be Superman, I say with respect, if in the months that are intended to develop the two priorities that you have drawn from us. Nor can we give it as a guarantee until the government has guaranteed the approval of certain assumptions, which... now, for now, and for all we know, is not. When the debate is over, some resolutions will be approved. Some, of which your group proposed, and others that we will propose the different opposition groups and that your group will lose or what it will add in order not to lose, that has all passed. This is at least what has happened so far in the debates: we will vote resolutions, they will be approved and nothing will happen, because those that you do not want, and even some of those that you have proposed or voted, fall into oblivion, because as has happened on so many occasions what Parliament says only matters to you when you say what interests you. Yes, Mr President, we have heard him on repeated occasions say that all he does in the matter of the process is to complete what the Parliament is running, but then I will give him a few parliamentary mandates as well that his government ignores. In any case, we don't take away the debate, we don't think it's a minor debate, and we want to tell him what we've said on other occasions, to you and other presidents: governments, president, governments serving everyone, you make your government work and complete your mission, that it's to vet for the interests of all citizens and not just those who share their full route. I'm saying this because it's an undisputed fact that his government hasn't bothered until now to let people back in their career and confront the state. The Socialists, when we were in the Government of the Generality, we said that our main concern was to advance the society so that no one would be left behind. It was a principle that we shared with our governing partners, and I think I can say that we kept it seven years long when we ruled folds. And why am I saying that, Mr. President? So I'm telling you this because, as I said in the debate on the question of trust, the real balance of your government's action clearly shows us that they don't work with the necessary efficiency to avoid the social divide that is produced in society between those who are installed, better or worse, but installed, and those who see progressively expelled from the system. Then I will refer to the concrete data. Some of them I provided the other day, but I won't add any more. But I also want to add that, as you saw last week during the debate on the question of trust, you and your Government are not more concerned than to move forward with your archaic objective of the Catalan Republic, in which they are miraculously, or almost miraculously, all the problems, even though this objective is not shared by a majority of the citizenry, and naturally it does not seem to worry them about the costs that this would entail. And when I say costs I talk about economic costs, but fundamentally social and reputation of Catalonia with the country will be serious. Let me give you an example, to see if the one I'm saying has to see with any reality. In the interview on the confidence issue at RAC1, the great headline was: "We will have higher pensions in Catalonia independent. Pensioners will not only charge, but also raise, pensions. Miri, president, let me tell you with a certain scepticism... the unions, all the experts, alert you to the risk of the pension system. They're talking about social emergence. And, therefore, more than speculating about what will happen if the moment comes up, that I don't know if it will come, what we should agree on is how we save the pensions from failure, a failure that we believe condemns the administration of the People's Party government, which does not speak, or thinks, or proposes, alternative solutions to equip the Reserve Fund, for example. How come the most educated people don't have to leave? You come up with this formula of thinking a little magic that guided the government's later years: "Do not suffer, be independent in a few months and we will have the highest pensions. This example is good, since the quantity and quality of the work could perfectly be the core of the general policy debate. The lack of jobs and the lack of quality of the occupation that was created is at the basis of the impoverishment and much of the inequality that we suffer. And in this his government is limited to making chronicler of the poor quality of the occupation, provoked mainly by a labor reform that voted his party. I – I am not sorry in this case to repeat an expression of the opposition leader – no self-criticism, no action relevant to this land. Let me give you an example, which maybe someone will consider to be small. But other autonomous communities, such as the Illes, from working with the Ministry of Labour, are getting more resources for the pursuit of labour fraud while strengthening labour inspection. That means more work and more guarantees. That is to say, in this case, not working with the State affects the working conditions of our workers and workers. They don't make commentators, they don't make prestidigitators. Exercising as a government and as a labor authority of the country, I take advantage of the greatest margin of manoeuvre that the 2006 Statute provides to the Generality in this matter. It seems to us that this is not a priority for you. You constantly repeat that work, getting work, is the best social policy. We agree. Now, why, then, do we have an Occupational Servant totally lacking resources? The average number of users to be managed by a technician of the Occupational Service of Catalonia is 680, when the ILO, the International Labour Organization, recommends a maximum of eighty. The figures are the ones that give us the recognition of whether or not a topic is a priority for the government. What we know is that today's date in Catalonia we still do not have the training offer for the so-called 2016 people. If we don't hurry, we won't make it. And that's not Madrid. That's just no good government. And I'd like to hear from the rest of us that they will not return to the European Union for inability to manage them on such a sensitive issue as youth employment policies. And we would also like to be reassured that the team of technicians and specialists who comply with the Catalan Institute of Safety and Health at Work, considered for you as a state structure, will not suffer a 15_per_cent relay, according to the Department of Work. At a time when there has been an increase in work accidents, the Government decides to detail the tool it is fighting for the prevention and analysis of work leftlessness. Perhaps it would be convincing, if there is no money, that part of the staff you have planned to hire for the own estate the dedicated to preventing the left-handedness of work. Mr President, the key to my criticism is that we do not think that priorities are being addressed in the light of the country's truly strategic themes. There is a misalignment of priorities of your government, from our point of view. I followed carefully the explanations he gave us about the government's bond. But let me tell you again that we don't all see the same picture of Catalonia that you see. It is obvious that the Administration has an inertia, that public employees have done their work every day, that there are projects that are continued by previous governments. I'd just miss it. But they can't come to the general policy debate to tell us that the schools are open, that the health care system is plagued and that the DOGC is published every day. I'd just miss it. You were invested with a plan of government that is not developed, and we believe that, beyond the ordinary functioning of the Administration, we do not have a good government. We have a debt that will exceed €75,000_million at the end of the year, and in five years its governments have generated more public debt than left-wing governments in seven. He will have to tell us: "In part it is also for the servicing of the debt, which he carried. But we have the perception that the debt that was accumulating the Catalanist and left governments was actually applied so that no one would stand back. And, yes, we wanted to invest in salvation, in education, in security, in caring for people. And I liked it, Mr. President, and here I do undercut a coincidence, when today you made a new job of creating teachers, teachers and teachers. I liked it very much, because it's one thing, let's just say... As before it was about copyrights, so the three emes of "masters, "moves and" meths is Pasqual Maragall. Indeed, the previous governments were in debt because they made more hospitals, more schools, more funding for universities, more security installations... I, effectively, govern is to choose, to make decisions about public policies and investments that sometimes generate debt. It is true that today's Catalans and tomorrow's Catalans will have to pay for our hospitals, our CAPs, the nine schools, the search centers for universities, the police, the police, the firemen... But you are serving public services and the necessary infrastructure for what we enjoy today and for a long time. Therefore, when we increased the debt, we improved the quality of life of the people: a hope of life worthy, better opportunities for the future..., and the security of the Catalans. The increase in the debt of those governments translates into greater welfare. But it does affect us that the increase in the debt that is produced at the length of his years of government does not have this same translation. What can they teach as a result of the increase in debt from the year 2011? Have they built any more schools? Did they get rid of the barracks? Have they built more CAPs and hospitals? Have they increased – now it seems that it is announced – the seedlings of metries to decrease the lists of waits? Have they incorporated more steps to complete the police's objective needs? Now it's said yes, but I'm talking about it now. And, therefore, the answer to these questions is no. And I already know that you will say that this is all because of the economic effect to which the Government of Spain subdues us. You're lucky to be able to take full responsibility. I don't think I've convinced us that Mariano Rajoy's government is not good for Catalonia, because it's applying re-centralizing policies, because it's causing a crisis that doesn't take into account what they're suffering most. But, President, his obligation is to rule Catalonia and to rule it well. And you don't do it well, because it's not that you don't solve the problems – because that would be unfair to say it, because it's not all at your fingertips – but from our point of view it doesn't fix priorities or optimize your options, the instruments you have. Coinciding, as we agree, that Rajoy is a bad president of government, vis à vis des de Catalunya, especially, I believe, Mr President, that you have preferred not to take full advantage of the insufficient tools that he has at his hands, among other things, because this is why he has mastered the argumentary favorable to secession, feeding the feeling that with Spain there is nothing to do. So you have stopped pushing until today a tax reform that the Generalitat is doing, that the Generalitat has recovered tickets that already had in time of Presidents Montilla and Maragall, and especially has given up to captivating the effort to have a new financing or review the current, trusting that we will soon arrive at independence. It is true that his Government has tried to create new tax figures, and we have accompanied them in these decisions, and that it has encountered obstacles in the Government of the State and in the Constitutional Court. But, beyond the attempts of our taxes, which have not been effective, there are already two assumptions and two prorogations with the support of Convergence and Esquerra, and it is no longer to be remembered that, if in the first assumption, which was battled as to give autonomous assumptions – four years ago – the imposition of successions and donations with a little magnitude has been modified, we would be receiving hundreds of millions of euros, which are so necessary for social policies and economic recovery. So, in the matter of getting more tickets, you have focused your concern on this land to create what, in a very pompous way, is sometimes called state structures. Because the Catalonia Tax Agency was already there, but now we are talking about a new Catalan heritage, which will be wonderful, which will not have any evils of Spanish structures, which are by definition painful. But, listen'm, and the problem they've had with naming the director? Are we also charging Rajoy with responsibility? Why how many people have rejected the cargo? How many directors did you have to appoint? What good is the law of transparency, which pleases us so much, if then it turns out that they want to appoint an imputed person? Here we can do the laws that are common, but if it turns out that the government's attitude does not fit in with the wishes expressed by the laws, then we do not get out. Let's use other concrete examples, so they don't convince you very much. There is a population problem in Catalonia, and we were pleased, President, to talk about concrete programs to fix the population to the territory, but the truth is that things are not going well in this land and we need to recognize it. And he's also moving the crisis and turning it around to the youngest people, who probably feel compelled to leave the country. Continued reductions in health care costs have reduced our ability to cope with the demand of the population, and lead to beds, operating rooms, staff and specialisations in primary education, restrictions on access to medicines... We had an enviable health system, and now we are valued at 14 of Spain's health systems – 2009 was the fifth. And the other day I said, "Home, if it's data from the Campalans Foundation, no, but this isn't, this is from the Federation of Associations for the Defense of Public Health. And I want to tell you something else, speaking of public health, to subrate a coincidence, but also, I think, a certain problem. We, who are supporters of public health, are not, unlike its parliamentary partners, opposed to the model of public private cooperation; now, the rules of the game must be clear and transparent, the general interests must be guaranteed and preserved. And that's why we've been watching with concern the show that the same Salut advisor is the one that casts shadows over this model of collaboration with his, among comets, "deprivations for cost overruns in referrals to private centers. We thought that there would be continuity in this matter, that there would be some problems, as I say, but now it seems that the government is willing to review this. We would like to note that, in order to generate this confusion from the point of view of public opinion, especially between you, the Government is dedicated to presenting the law of health and social of Catalonia, which approves the plan of continuous and urgent order, that better the waiting lists, that presented the decree that rules the way in which nursing staff can dispense medicines, that presented the strategic plan of primary and community care, etc. Returning to the subject of completing the laws of Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Catalonian Education Law says that it should spend, already, the coming exercise, on education 6_percent of GDP, and its government spent or 2.8_per_cent, according to the Bofill Foundation, or 2.9_percent according to Eurostat – agafem Eurostat, which is more favorable–, and it is another example of the gap between what they say and what they do: while the department prepares a large participatory process on how to be the education system that comes when independence comes, while the expenditure on education has been reduced. Looking at Eurostat data, the most favourable to its government : educational expenditure according to GDP 2012: 2.91; variation compared to 2009: minus 17 and mig per cent. 2.91 is the lowest expenditure of the countries that compares this statistic, less than Bulgaria or Romania, and if it is looking for countries from outside the European Union, comparable to that of Peru, Laos, Guatemala or Azerbaijan. The educational expenditure in Spain has been four times more than the European average, but in Catalonia five times more. Let us wait, then, for the great day, but while our options of presence and future have been reduced. Before I said it, when I was talking about the debt, you've been in debt and the reason is not the increase in people's welfare. We still have more than a thousand barracks, the same size as with President Montilla; we lack places of professional training, and we get more than twenty-thousand students to non-personal training. In the presupposition not approved there was no euro for schools in Bressol, and it is charged the costs of this policy to the families and the municipality. We have saturated secondary classes; there are no teachers to meet the demand for students and there are tanks of P3 lines and there is not enough food. Today he made us some announcements that would correct in part this description that I make, and we thank him, we congratulate him and we will accompany him. But do you know what the worst is from our point of view? That there is a Bretxa in school income according to the origin of the student, that it is a Bretxa still larger than in the joint of Espanya, that six_of_each_children from zero to three are not educated, and in its assumptions not approved there was no euro for this. To quote other sources that do not follow the Campalans Foundation: the Jaume Bofill Foundation or the Greuges Syndic give important data of segregation, which already gives to the public school, despite the fact that the government says otherwise. I don't know if it'll give me time to pass on everything I want to say to you, but some things are worth commenting on. The government says it prioritizes childhood, but six years have passed since the adoption of the Law of Rights and Opportunities of Childhood and Adolescence, and so far we only have three draft decrees on the table to deploy it. Another fact that is not on the side, Mr President: to the data accompanying the Covenant on Children and Adolescents 2014-2017, the same Generalitat assumes that three_of_each_minors are at risk of poverty and exclusion. And it's that the risk of exclusion is the hardest threat that Catalonia faces today, and it doesn't seem to us that this is its government's first and foremost priority. The government has so far shown that it is not capable of dealing with situations as unfair as denunciations. It is true that we have had a serious problem, because when we wanted to have powerful instruments in this land, the Constitutional Court has explained our ambition, and so we are now working with the council to try to refer to legal instruments that allow us to do so. But Catalonia has produced more denunciations than all of Spain; it is the place where the most denunciations have occurred. And, therefore, we have the doubt that we are doing enough. And here I'm not talking about what's most being done – gatherings and social movements – but the leadership of the Government of the Generality in this. From our point of view..., and I want to say it with no purpose at all, in this case, and not critical, but either the government takes the fight against inequality very seriously, or in a few years we will have a socially broken Catalonia, with collectivities unable to get out of a situation of structural poverty. And they're problems that can't wait for independence, they'll have to start fixing from now on. We could start with the Law of Guaranteed Citizenship Income – we have mass, mass, mass encouraged in this Parliament – ; we could continue with the Pla d'Inclusion and Social Cohesion, which has been spoken of since May, but we have not yet seen it. When will agreements be signed with electrical companies to avoid sub-administration sizes to families at risk of exclusion? Because she's done a very good job with the water companies, I want to recognize her, but we need the other one. Certainly, they said that they would submit a social progress report to Parliament, but we still don't know it, they haven't submitted it. And you're right, President, when we talk about a subject that you also see with this chapter, which is the struggle against people... better said, against the effects..., about people who suffer from dependence: the Generality is facing up to it, has been forced to deal with expenses that exceed much of what was foreseen in the law. Now, his government is increasing restrictions to access the law's services and resources. And the order of co-sponsorship of persons with disabilities we consider confiscatory, even after a renegotiation with entities that relieved this character. We consider it unacceptable to reduce the benefits linked to residence, the long waiting lists for access to a place; all this has placed Catalonia at the top of the autonomous communities in the application of the law, so that it can be said that the inaction of its government with its social protection policy is paying, in a special way, to people in a situation of dependency. They say the Association of Directors and Directors of Social Services in Catalonia that the waiting time for a service in Catalonia is a 150_per_cent longer than the Spanish medium and that we lead this nefarious return with Canàries. There have been..., a few years to finish the waiting lists – before, I seem to make reference to Mrs. Arrimadas. A few minutes... no, a few minutes no, a few seconds, to talk about housing. According to a report by Avalot, of the young people of the UGT of Catalonia, the economic effort that must be made by a young employee to lodge a habitat is of the 80_per_cent of his son, or of the 64_per_cent if he wants to acquire - I suppose that there is still the entrance. It's no wonder there's 75 percent of young people who can't emancipate. Is there any government policy to fix this? Says the Government – and, in this, urgency, perhaps, gives you reason very short term –: "We have focused that no one has lost habitat. You're right; that's a high priority. But in access to the habitation of those who need it for their life projects, to be free, I think that here we are in the least, we should do much more. The Council Counsellor for Social and Family Policies published a report on reflections and proposals in the field of social housing policy, and recommended that more resources be allocated to aid. The Parliament also asked for it, in a resolution – I have pointed it out here, 17/XI – and, once again, what the Parliament says is ignored when appropriate. Someone as little suspected as the Third Social Sector Entity Table in Catalonia tells us that they are stuck for their government resolutions issued for this Parliament and that the sanctioning and mandatory cessation mechanisms have not been activated in habitats pending rehabilitation to which Articles 3 and 4 of Decree 1/2015 refer. Therefore, President, we believe that more needs to be done, we believe that it needs to be done better, that it is true that there are problems with legal instruments and that it is true that there are problems with presuppositionary restrictions, but let us either keep in mind that the first problem in Catalonia is a difficult social crisis, or let us not be certain about serving the citizen of this country. And we also need to talk, even though it's very short, busy. It is not only necessary to make efforts in long-term protection policies..., but the deployment of active policies and territorial strategies. There was an occupation system, and the SOC was talking about the subject right, which is regulated in Law 13/2015: it's not developing, president, or at least we don't see its celerity and urgency. It's true that it's recent, but we're more than a year away from her boarding house. I invite you to keep talking about your reference and your date or condition... so that we don't already agree that we will change the inheritance and donation tax so that we pay more than they have and can devote these resources to the most vulnerable people? These are our priorities. On issues of economic development, indeed, the Government has begun to talk about industry, and we recognize it, but it is also true that they are demanding us – economic agents, social workers, businesses, professional colleges, unions, assemblies – that the pact 'More industry is fully developed. We believe that the government..., should somehow be more visible, more compromised, do so. But it is very difficult, if the industry assumption, since 2010, has fallen to 49_per_cent. And, therefore, we must say that without industry there will be no country. You have made a defense, which we share, about tourism and about some who, sometimes, want to demonize it when it is a source of wealth, but let us not forget that, if Catalonia was and is the country that it is, the birth that it is, among other things, is for its industrial vocation, which now suffers difficulties that we should be able, among all, to contribute to overcoming. You talked about the Climate Change Law. All our support. The great challenge of the country is the energy transition and, therefore, here we will find ourselves easily. Innovation. We are concerned, President, because there is still a lot to do on the ground to transfer the knowledge generated to universities into the business and industrial world. Here we should try to work harder and better, and solve some problems, too, of funding and of university resources that are hardly limited in their search effort if we do not quickly solve it. The subject of agriculture has also touched on it, but, president, we believe that it is also necessary to do more: zero_euros on the ground that it improves roads, roads and land to agricultural areas; 40_percent of retails on the basis of the department's budget; delay without justification of subsidies payments and aid compromised with farmers and farmers; problems of mobile and internet coverage in rural areas; public transport deficient; reduction of hospital and educational services. Therefore, no-fixing or no-fixing of the population to the territory. Important displacement has occurred. The Generality is also recent in terms of administrative procedures, hospital services, education, administrative offices and, at the very least, team movements. Surely, for reasons of efficiency, for reasons of lack of resources, but it is re-entering, it is not fixed enough the population in the territory. And that has a great impact today, but it will have the greatest impact in the future in terms of quality of life and having a truly balanced and orderly country. I'll give you a final comment: in half an hour, whatever comes out, I've left, I'm sure, a lot of fears. But, President, believe me, if any criticism is not in the sense of demerging his Government's efforts or his commitment to the country, but we do want to tell him that the priorities of government action seem to us to be decompensated. And, for the sake of everyone, not only of the image of his Government, the social priority should be clearly the one that mocked his action, and, therefore, it does not seem only... – and the setting of a final parliamentary term with a referendum, whether it wants it or not, conditions much effort –, which does not seem that only this Government, if it continues to rule, is until the great day comes when everything will be solved. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.14.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. Then, the words of Mrs Àngels Martínez, of the Gruppo Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, who will speak for fifteen minutes, and then will do it for fifteen minutes by Mr Albano Dante Fachin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.15.0	Thank you. Good afternoon, good morning. Look, when your speech was over, a member of your group asked me what I thought. I said to him: "I had already read it. And he thought he read his speech. No, what happens is that it seemed to me that in many cases I had read Lewis Carroll, I had read Alice in the country of wonders, and a little you were carrying me here, to a country of wonders, to which I would now invite, Mr. President, which I had just gone after the Mirall. And, perhaps, to go past the Mirall we could pass through Sant Vicenç dels Horts and see what is going on with the cements, converted into incinerators, or pass through Montcada, or pass through the channel that we know is needed for the Catalan page, or pass through the pant of Flix and see how the contaminants, the contaminant products, the mercuri, emit the Hebrew river, the Segarra-Garrigues – emit the Hebrew. Mr President, I am very happy, and I share it, I am optimistic that the important thing in this country is to want a better Catalonia. What is happening is that this Catalonia is not only better with desires, it is above all with a very clear diagnosis of reality at this time and making some policies that must change the sign of the policies that are there now. Because the policies that have gone so far to Catalonia and the policies of the European Union are policies that do not help growth, are policies that do not help redistribution, are policies that do not help the majority of the population, of men and women in the people. And, of course, for example, can we see that if there are no compensating policies what happens? So that Catalonia separated the index from Gini – the index that measures inequality in Catalonia –, it separated from the index from the European Union, even though it is higher than that of Spain – that, I recognize – but it separated. And, as other Members and Members have already said here, Catalonia has 20 per cent of the population that is poor; there are 1 per cent of people at risk of poverty; there are 15 per cent of workers who are in the care of the poor, but if it turns out that in these families, you see these workers, who are the head of the family is a woman, this increase up to 20 per cent. Clearly, then, I ask you: very well, we will grow – we will grow – and we will get a better Catalonia, but how will we grow – how will we grow? We will grow up with a Barcelona World that rents the game's gross money and embarrasses us – many people are ashamed of it – how has it been negotiated? Will we grow up having the double privilege of having the biggest brothel in Europe on the border between Catalonia and France? Clearly, we will grow clean of the contaminant substances that we are pregnant with, and above all of the children, who have thrown Ercros – first Erkimia, then Ercros – and who are now, therefore, fleeing the scandal people who, of course, with their credibility now doubtful... now, moreover, denounce the evils that have occurred in corruption. So, what kind of growth do we want? I am very happy myself – and surely my group shares it – that it has come back to talk about industrialization. But what industrialization? How do we industrialization? Rescuing, to begin with, the Circuit de Montmeló? I mean, do we have to rescue circuits and banks again and leave each other and leave without rescuing people, these people, these women, these children? Miri, the model as we have it, as it is now – as it is now – in the other corner of the Mirall, it is a model force, evil force. And it seems to me that it would not be good to be well adapted to this evil model, because it carries hard, because it represents an increase in exports, but at the cost of low wages and poor working conditions of workers. And a classic once said, Stuart Mill once said: "Woe to the country that in order to export it must condemn its working classes to misery. Therefore, we are looking for a way to resolve policies..., to make policies, starting, for example, for health policies in a much more open way, sharing many more things with the people who are really involved, and who can feel involved and can feel disappointed with the things that are offered here. For example, I would ask the Lord Comin... – it's not there now, but it's the same. I already knew that Mr. Comin was smarter than Ana Mato, huh? I mean, when Mr. Comin says that he reverses the non-universalization of sanitation to me he seems perfect; he just proves that he's a lot smarter than Ana Mato and that what he does is he recognizes that viruses and bacteria, which are to be detected in public sanitation, in primary care, can't put up with cops or papers. So, in this sense, he's fine. But Mr. Comin..., like you, it's been a long time, too, and in the paper he's been through, he said: "Because with this we'll end up with inequalities in sanitation. I hope it's changed. But with this we'll cut the barriers or remove the access barriers, but the inequalities don't. Because clearly, Mr. Comín, you have many things to fix in sanitation, and I am glad that you have rejected the White Sea and that you have taken note of the decade of measures that would save us a lot of money and rationalize our sanitation very much. But I would also ask you to swallow the calaix... – plus, now, the 10th is the day of mental salvation and you have not spoken, and I am sure that, like me, a lot of people appreciate it – that you have recovered the petitions you are making because people with mental health problems do not subdue, for example, their family members to very high tensions when the end of the week they leave to go home with an increase in the risk of suicide, with an increase in the situation of unstable precariousness in the world. Therefore, we have to study very well what measures are being taken in health. The first, I say, is very welcome, that of universalization, but there must be many more. For example, it is necessary to rescue this plan of mental salvation, which faces the tea, for which it seems, in the calaix; to rescue that of fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue, etcetera, which..., look, I spoke here more than eight years ago and, moreover, with the same dress. I put on exactly the same outfit as I did eight years ago to tell them that if my penis dress has changed, attention to the sick people with fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue, etcetera, neither. I'm not saying that you have to be the same one that you did at that time; it was approved, theoretically at that time... but what you need to pay attention to. Because there are people who are with disabilities privatized, oblivious... but they're patenting a lot. And you have to listen to them because, if you don't, it might look like that friend's... that show from Mr. Iceta's friend, rich neighborhood, poor neighborhood, Mrs. Thais Villas, going to the rich neighborhood and asking, huh? Oh, no, but let's not go to the poor neighborhood. We don't ask the malalta people here. Here we don't ask people, for example, that they are patenting the double injustice of medical negligence, don't ask them how we can help them. Let's say, yes, that we establish study mechanisms and I don't know what... but it's... it's that injustice is so great and life is so short... and the more when in this country we don't have suicide statistics and we don't know what's going on with the young woman. Why are there so many young people and girls who are suicides? And maybe we should see them with a lot of repositioning, of all these oblivious evils, of these people who say no more, but they're done. Or perhaps we should listen – not in the past, as you mentioned, and, in addition, I think that you have followed the moment when you have made a mistake or confided..., too, with the question of the data, of VISC+ – the people about dignified death, because if we are to make policies because there is a dignified life, it is also very logical that at the end of life there is a dignified death, a demure death, a conscious death, a death that can be looked at face to face, without pain. I think we would show that we have advanced as a civilization if in Parliament these questions are also biased with dignity. And more..., and more inequality and more things than I'd like to see; for example – I don't know if you'd see it very well – there's been talk about the job market. I very much agree with the things that have been said about the job market on the part of the opposition – I very much agree with the things that have been said about the job market. And I'm glad that you, therefore, talked about pushing the minimum interprofessional wage. It seems to me basic, it seems absolutely necessary, as the guaranteed income of citizenship and as, finally, the minimum income of insertion. But, look, this is reality. [[The speaker shows a full.]] And this is the reality of the women who have a place of work, they are indicators that indicate the inequality of gender that there is for which it refers, for example, in position..., with more university title; also, unfortunately, with more school failure... But then they start a whole series of indicators in denial. In these indicators in denial there is wage inequality. It's not true that this Catalonia of ours, that we would want so idyllic, that men and women, equal work, equal wages... no, it's not true, here you say it, huh? And all the indicators are in denial. But suddenly, at the end of the day, we find ourselves a very positive – very positive – indicator, which at the same time has a great negative burden on women, which is the time of work that women have to devote to the tasks of the street. And here you don't see only patriarchal models, you don't see only traditions; you see also the elasticity, which they think is almost infinite, of the work of women to take on the retails, the bonds that they make of public services, all the attention that as a society we don't give and that every time more men, but above all women, and women with work, are taking on. And that's what we need to talk about, and that's the object of a social contract between men, women and politics. This allocation of time, this allocation of such unfair time, is not only justifying glass sustenance, lack of possibilities..., it is also justifying malalties, it is also justifying tensions, it is justifying a bad reputation of heroines of women, which will arrive at a time that they will not be able to more. And, well, in this sense, then, I would ask you this, that the real data keep them present, as we should bear in mind that when we are saying that we invest in the welfare state there is a hidden welfare, that you already see from the State, but that here, somehow, we do not strengthen either. And one last question I'd like to ask you, Mr. President, in the short time I'm left – because I'm disciplined and I want Mr. Dante Fachin to have all the time he needs and most. Listen, all this stuff you said we were gonna do, who's paying for it? - Who do I pay? Because, of course, if, as always, you have to pay an increase of Gini's index, of more inequality, you have to pay those people's deciles that are already paying a lot, if you have to pay those students with university fees that they can no longer afford or can't compensate for more than 400,000 children in the poor, if we can't get these things to be shared in this sense, we simply won't be doing well. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.16.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martinez. Then has the word Albano Dante Fachin, fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.17.0	Angels passed on to the government, suddenly. Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Mr President, listening to the Angels Martínez Castells, it is clear that, beyond the Catalonia that you have described to us, there is a Catalonia that is unequal, that is unfair, that turns the scales to thousands of people and that I am sure that we do not want to. You've talked about the Catalonia you want to be, but we have a Catalonia that's what we have on the table and that's often not talked about. Today we want to talk about how we can achieve this Catalonia of the future. And his words indicate a direction that too often does not correspond to the facts. I'll give you an example. You mentioned the need for a Europe that acts fiscally to deal with fraudulent practices by companies like Apple. And they are good words, and we share them; but when they go to Europe to defend something like the TTIP, they are moving in the direction of the counter; ask them - I am in Tremosa. In this same line, you talk about fighting tax fraud, and we all agree; but we all remember – because we have memory, and historical memory also contemplates this – how you voted in favour of Montoro's tax amnesty. You have spoken today about the new months, about what has happened in these new months of government, but you have also made a triumphalistic repose to a way of hearing things, to a way of doing these two legislatures, which I remember, doing a historical memory exercise, which began with the support of the People's Party, to the end of a few details – a space, an area of convergence presidents, I mean – and some legislative changes that we are still recovering from today. Today you seem to distance yourself from the line that marked your predecessor, but at the moment they are words. And, if you believe – and I want to think you believe them – many of the questions you have posed about the table, many of the resolutions we have presented from Catalonia Yes, it is possible to be approved, and it should not only be approved: they should be fulfilled; because everyone knows that we approve here many things that are then left in a cove. Last week, you put at the center of Catalan politics that any change passed, let's say, through the independence of Catalonia, to stop relying on a Spanish that is what it is. In fact, today, however, you have made it clear – you have made it clear – that one week ago was a central point of the debate. It's true that a while ago, in front of the TV, he put it back down, in front of the TV he explained to them what the center was, right? This reference that you set up, this new calendar that tells us that 2017 in Catalonia will have a reference. And, first of all, I have to tell you that for our group, for what it does to its proposal of reference, we get it as good news, we get it as good news, we get it as good news that you recognize that the way of reference is what it is, because until recently, this way, for Junts for the Yes, it was an outdated way, and, in fact, the ones we asked for a reference were here in the canton, so, as a rare thing, right? That asked for a reference. So, I don't take back the strategy change, because I think we all know that the situation we have on the table is very complex, and it doesn't matter if it's rectified and errors come out. Now, to rectify, and to correct correctly, to recognize errors, it must be attentive to future errors that can be made. And we, in this sense, come with a proposal or a reflection of seeking common solutions. The other day you spoke of "referendum or reference, and we believe that we should speak of the 80_per_cent reference, a reference that appeals to the great social majority of this country that wants to make the changes that so far are word for. You said that the year you are celebrating a referendum, and the first one you would like to make clear is that we cannot afford luxury, nor political short-sightedness, to spend a whole year discussing whether the referendum should be binding or not, especially when these words are too empty of content. Right now, focusing the question on this useless debate doesn't lead us to solve it. Because, if I tell him that the reference is to be agreed, you'll tell me there's no way to deal with the king. And I'm saying it: actually, it's very complex. We – and this everyone knows – believe that it is essential to reach agreements in order to be able to make a reference with guarantees and internationally recognizable, and that is why we fight. But no doubt, and we don't deny it, this is a complex way. For another band, if you say to me, "Look, we'll make an equal reference, requests that you ask, and disconnect, so we'll have to say, "Listen, this has already proved a time and it didn't work, and we'll be right – and we'll be right. And I'll tell you clearly and a little bit of good news: this thing about disconnection, as you plant it day and day, it doesn't exist, and you know it perfectly. And we may like it more or less, but the disconnection of what is spoken of doesn't exist and it has the courage to assume it, because, I said, we can't spend a year with this dialog in pairs. In this hemisphere, much has been said about this 80_percent of the Catalan people who are in favour of deciding, of the celebration of a referendum, and a majority that, beyond its plurality, enormous, between this 80_per_percent, is clear that a profound change in Catalonia is essential. So, before these gains of change, all folds have the responsibility to find a common land, and we have said it many times all: this common land is this 80_per_cent people who have gains of change, who want this Catalonia that in the speeches we share a lot, but that it is a Catalonia that cannot wait to decide to start changing from the very beginning. And today, after listening carefully, we cannot help but ask ourselves what change – what change – has been offered to us until now together for the Yes, because at the moment the change of Junts for the Yes – in a few examples – has consisted of lowering taxes to the casinos and refusing, until then, to push the taxes to what they have most. For the moment, the change of Junts for the Yes has left us things: it has left us – and we still have them on the table – things like the ATLL; the change of Junts for the Yes, for the moment, the real change that exists for us has served us to continue financing Opus Dei schools that secrete by sex, and to fall an ILP of education from the hand of the People's Party; for the moment, the real change that exists from Junts for the Yes goes to Europe to say yes to TTIP, Merkel, austerity, and for the moment the change that we have seen from Junts for the Yes goes through a Generality, as we read two days ago, that opens the way to new privatisations in the water sector. For now, that's what we've seen. You can understand that this change path will never reach 70 percent of the population, and maybe it was time to hear that there is an important part of the citizenry that will not leave the hair, that will not compromise to exercise a right to decide that in the background it does not decide re, because we still have the same questions about the table. I want to give social content and economics to this right to decide. Because today we see that Juntes's yes for the Yes..., and we have seen it in his figure, of a president leaving the tourist power of Catalonia, oblivioning that this power is based on the exploitation of people. I don't know if you know the ones, I don't know if you know the cameramen who work sixty hours for eight hundred euros a month, I don't know if we're clear that there's a tourist model that's destroying the territory, that has nothing to do with that energy model change and... that's reality. We listened to your speech today, talking about the enormous export capacity of Catalan companies, and it's fine, but we can't forget that much of this capacity is based on exploiting thousands of workers. Let's go to Osona, look what's happening to the Chinese industry, which is very exportative, but it's very exploitative; this is a problem not of the Chinese industry: of all folds. His government spent the whole week talking about the Hebron Valley O.R.s, and we're happy, it was a demand and it had to be done; but we need to get down to the street and we need to talk to the primary care doctors, who are crying in their consultations. They came to see me at my desk. I don't know if they're going to see Mr. Comin and explain to him how they cry before they can't do the work, the meths who grab the bass because they can't do the work. We can't have such modern operating rooms and primary care that you're looking for. And I don't say it: the workers say it. And why am I telling you all this? I'm telling you because there's an important part of Catalans who won't give a blank check and don't want to hear about "vote" yes, and then we'll see about it. We want to build this great majority essential to make possible a profound change to Catalonia. And that's why we made proposals. We're talking about modifying the IRPF's autonomous tram, so pay who else has it. We're talking about reviewing the government's regressive tax benefits. We have made proposals, our parliamentary group, in the matter of poverty, some of which, even though it does not require presuppositional endowments, are still ongoing today; urgent proposals for urgent problems, such as this 20_percent of children at risk of poverty. You're urgent. And I know you know that, and everyone knows that. So we can't go on approving things that aren't complete after that. We propose things so much as common sense that public resources go to public school and that doesn't always happen; it's common sense, but it doesn't always happen. The Bofill report – the Bofill report – describes a reality we have about Catalonia; I'm sure you've all read the headline: "The education expenditure in Catalonia is at Laos level, with all the respect for Laos. We read all the reports, we read the small letters – we read the small letters. You have the changes that we all want, and you want them all, and I'm sure the whole room wants them. Some of us, we don't want everything, we don't want them all, the changes. Artur But yesterday to the radio goddess: « We do not convert the assumptions into an ideological battle place. Go, what are they, then, the assumptions, if they are not an ideological battle place. The other day, in the debate on the question of trust, you said: "Well, we can't put ourselves in measures of people from the left to push taxes on people, because we have to maintain a centrality of the country. The centrality of the country is that more than 70 per cent of the population of this country is clear that in one way or another we have to make the most paid. It seems a very simple thing, but sometimes it costs. Because when we see that the proposal we have, for example, when we talk about state structures – today we haven't talked about it, but we certainly haven't talked about it very much – when we see that the proposal for state structures in history goes to charge it with the drawing of the Catalan heritage, to PricewaterhouseCoopers, that it is one of these companies that helps other companies to circumvent taxation in a way..., on an industrial scale, you have to hear that there is a part of the population that says: "Hey, what kind of change are we talking about here? Therefore, we must seek, and we must seek together, lives to decide how we want to live. We will be able to apply great majority and make this 80_per_cent year of the people that he wants to change: that he wants to change what is going on in Catalonia, that he wants to change what is in Catalonia. And, President, we are convinced that it is now possible to do so and that to do so, therefore, we need to have a project that is not just for part of the country. We need to think about the businesses, we need to think about the "chelis", we need to think about the escorts they export, but we also need to think about the people who are suffering right now, sure, working on those escorts. This is the way to get these great majorities of which so much is spoken. We to build these majorities and put ourselves to look in all directions and on both sides of the Mirall, and not just in one, for that, we have the most expanse. That is why we are proposing, not to bring it into control, to build a just country, a country for which it is worth fighting, a country for which it is worth mobilizing and mobilizing together to achieve rights: the right to decide and the right to decide how we want to live. This we believe is the way to give response to the yearning for change and not to drag us into partial visions of which is the reality of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.18.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fachin. The session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon. [[The session is suspected to be a quarter of two in the middle and four minutes and is resumed at three in the afternoon. She chairs the President of the Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who are assisted by the Secretary-General in office, the Major and the Immaculate Folchi and Bonafonte.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.19.0	Too late to all and so to all. The words of Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.20.0	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen..., Mr President, we have listened very carefully to your intervention, and what you have done to us today is an explanation of the government's action, but not of the last year's government's action, but of the last years... – we think, I believe – of the last eight, two years, because you have even told us that there has been an investment of 3,800_million euros in infrastructure. They'll explain to us... this past year where this $3,800-million investment in infrastructure has been made. It's in evidence, therefore, that he's given us a summary of, as I say, eight years later, ten years later. You have also spoken to us, Mr President, about what you think is going to take a long time to complete, about the actions you want to take in the next year. Sounds good to us. He dared to say that he would give each child a book. This is all very well, but it has not been able to develop or even any of the actions that had to end this past year, which is what brings us here today. He couldn't do it because he can hardly present any action that goes in the right direction. Therefore, for the People's Party this general policy debate we could quickly summarise in the legislature of the two great projects, of the two great ideas: they have approved a question of trust and no presupposition. In fact, this Parliament has approved so many questions of trust as you do: one. And also, yes, they have devoted themselves to making statements of bias and threatening day yes, day too; but, against it, the reality is that the Catalan public institutions have not advanced a thousandfold in the past few years. For this reason, for one year, between a paralysis and the threat, the Government has created much more problems than it has solved. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, if we ask the Catalans now if they know any real action that this government has had to finish, I'm sure they could tell us that. Mr President, your full Catalan service is a full white. A general policy debate would have to assess the government's political line; if that were the case, we would soon end up. We are in front of a government, like the gods, of incendiary slang and that focuses all its efforts on orders that do not carry absolutely no place. In this government everything is rhetorical; rhetorical, yes, perilous, rhetorical that destroys everyone who practices it. In the past, this government's only proposal is to repeat 9-N. Before it was "a consultation and now they're saying it's an unagreed reference, but it's the same: a 9-N plus. Is that what motivates – I ask you, Mr. President – the visits, the diluns, of Mr. Mas a palau? They can tell us... – and it was published – that the Lord But every day he goes to visit, to you, to stick. Can you explain to us that if that's what this is, who's running the government of the generality? And, above all, and it seems to me that it's important, if Mr. But sees every day to stick to review with you of his government action, what do his members of the CUP think, the ones they call "the paper of history, of fact, as I say, that spend every day visiting him by stick?" We see that the reality, for you, is something that is indispensible. And in these moments, on top of that, there are some choices that they say they are and that they are, like pasts, simply autonomous choices. But I want to say one thing to you, Mr President, I will not devote a minute more to this farce, I will not speak a minute more than you say in the process. No one will make us stop being Catalans, Spaniards and Europeans. The game, for our part, is over. You have reached very dangerous limits: outside the framework of democracy. There are symptoms that you have lost your sense of reality and lost your sense of prudence. Dilluns passed, for example, Catalunya Radio asked for social networks if people were willing to physically prevent the judgment of Mr. Mas, Mrs. Ortega and Mrs. Rigau. Do you have the gravity of these facts? How far are they going to go? Where have they been seen in public media inciting violence and animating conflict? Are you going to say anything about this question? But, as I said, we're going to see what they've achieved this year with their government action. Mr President, in a normal country... – because he likes you and has mentioned it to us today, he has repeated it many times, "in a normal country, therefore – in a normal country you do not spend a year organizing ass to satisfy your radical partners. The last episode of these challenges has been the question of deferred trust. And it's obvious that in a normal country, too, you don't spend a year ignoring the different reality of Catalans. In a normal country, Mr. Puigdemont, he was not seen for a year inventing enemies and feeding radicals because they are not capable of coping with the crisis and shutting down the dark. They have left the Government of Spain... – and I will say this, because we believe it, in a very clear way – they have left the Government of Spain alone to help the Catalans. The Catalans, of you, can't wait for anything else. In a normal country, Mr. President, don't ignore the 600,000 people we have so far at this time. If the Catalan exports have increased a 2-per-cent in the past year has not been thanks to the embassies of the Minister Romeva, but to the entrepreneurs and the fact that the reforms of the People's Party – the labor reform and the reform of restructuring of the financial system – have released the export force from the companies of Catalonia. Their ideal country would be a country where every day it was 11 September, but the people do not work or eat from the stellate; well, only you and your grantees. In order to feed the independent entremat we, the Catalans, at taxes and how they manage worse than the tripartite, the debt is fired and detached exclusively, in the economic aspect, from the Government of Spain. The generality of Catalonia is the leader in propitious tributes, 15; the second community, which follows us closer in this race, is Andalusia, with 8. I, for example, a community governed by the Popular Party, the Community of Madrid, only in te 4 – 4 in front of 15 that we have here, in Catalonia. The Generalitat is also leader in debt, already has 75,000_million euros. The tripartite, which we accused of managing in a very bad way, left half of this debt. The management has caused that, at these times, the Government of the Generalitat..., no one confided in it. Who lends it, if it isn't the Government of Spain, Mr Puigdemont? If it wasn't for the leadership of the People's Party government, they wouldn't be able to pay public workers or social services. Since the year 2012, Mr Puigdemont, the State has lent the Generalitat EUR 58,000_million, twice as much as the Generalitat's assumption. And there's enough to lie about the subject, for example, of interests. It seems lied that a President of the Generality does not know – as I demonstrated in the past Plethora of the question of trust – that the Government of Spain does not charge him a single euro of interest. The Government of Spain loses money lending 0_per_cent to a government that acts irresponsibly like its own. Mr President, can you tell me a measure, a single measure of your government that has improved the lives of Catalans? Can you tell me a single reform that has been used to reduce the gap between political syringuites that fall within the scope of the Government of Catalonia? Ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame that Catalonia is leader in barracks at the schools: 1,010 – that is, 14 more than the past course – while it is giving 400,000_euros a year, as at least, to the schools of the Bressola to foreigner. It is an authentic scandal, ladies and gentlemen, that 24,000 opinions are waiting to enter a residence in Catalonia, while you give 700,000_euros to Valencian independents such as those of Cultural Action in Valencia. It is a shame that almost 900,000 Catalans are on the list waiting for sanitation, while you give 30_million euros in propaganda to the media. It is a scandal that has only allocated EUR 1 million to the fight against the poor energy, the same one that costs us their gambling embassies. At his delegation in Lisbon there is no such place, because no one serves it. But the Catalan sanitary waiting lists grow and grow. [[Greetings.]] Mr Puigdemont, I'd like you to explain to me how much you value it – as you value it – that in three months two general tourist directors resign, and here nothing happens. That in three days he resigns two heads of his tax agency, and there's nothing going on here. That property registrars warn them that if they break the deal with them they will lose 400_million euros of interest, and nothing happens. That the High Court of Justice of Catalonia annuls the name and status of its representation in Brussels, and here it is. I do not pretend, Lords and Lords of Junts for the Yes and the CUP, that I cease to be independent, but I do ask them, as a minimum, to touch little on the ground, stop deceiving everyone and especially their voters, who are certainly less every day. Mr. Puigdemont, can you tell me a law of the government that has been used to reduce bureaucracy, to lighten the burden of taxes on Catalans or to boost the creation of more and better jobs? Not one. You are the government of great words and small facts: great words and great scenes against which we hear Catalans who feel Catalan and Spanish, and measured by the conjunction of Catalans. But know that most men and women in Catalonia are not condemned to this: we don't want a train wreck or a party of an independent elite that feeds the confrontation, because they don't know how to rule, and they have turned their situation into their way of life. For you... that the only priority is independence and the rest is so much if they did. Contradictions and differences are not between you and us, they are between you and you. The mayor of Sant Cugat, by way of example, and president of the Barcelona City Council is stunned because Lord Comín does not know if, by ideological apriorism, to give taste to the CUP or at all times, he leaves his veins without the medical services, forging the General Hospital of Catalonia of the system, while in the expulsion of the Clinic of Vallès..., other centers is col·lapsen. So, what do you think, Mr Puigdemont? They haven't explained anything to us. From the reduction of traffic units that led to protests by many mayors, among them, the mayor of Mataró..., what do you think, Mr Puigdemont? They haven't explained anything to us. Mr. Puigdemont, what's your government plan? You, besides being an independentist, who's all right, from the rest, what do you think? Independence is a form... and I'll say it with all due respect, we understand that it's a form of vagancy that allows them to do nothing. Or it's a form of immatureness that allows them to say that anything that doesn't... blames someone else. Mr Puigdemont, a few days from now, the Barcelona Meeting Point is starting, an international event where people from all over the world see it. It is a key sector for our economy as real estate. What do we say we reverse them, Mr. Puigdemont? Don't worry they'll have an invented legality? Or do you think that people do not know and will see the legal insecurity involved by their undertakings in unrealizable proposals such as those made by this Parliament in Catalonia? Probably with a third election or there won't be a government in Spain that will do things, things that don't happen here. Will Mr. Puigdemont participate in a negotiation of a new funding model, or will he declare himself a political driver, as it is now? What's his proposal? I'm telling you, break or break. For all these reasons, today we want to make it very clear that there is another way, and we, the People's Party, want to put it here on the table. From the People's Party of Catalonia we want to take advantage of this general policy debate to show that there is another different way of governing Catalonia, there is another Generality that is possible, a different Generality, with a government that you put on for the necessary reforms, for all Catalans without exclusion, to re-recover being the reference to the eyes of others. This is Catalonia for which we, from the People's Party of Catalonia, bet. It is possible, and we want to replace the agenda of confrontation, conflict and crisis with an agenda of reconciliation between Catalans, creation of occupation and better of the income of Catalans. I would like to present here in your Parliament before all of you, but above all before the Catalan society, when the independence parties have left behind the fact that the Members of the People's Party believe that it is necessary for the Catalans, to present our alternative, which highlights the political paralysis and verbal benevolence of the current Government of the Generality; proposals before their paralysis, proposals before a Generality capable of disconnecting from the interests of the majority of Catalans. The two pillars of an alternative agenda for Catalonia, which are all the opposite of what you are doing during this legislature: open catalanity, leadership in Spain, pact and reform, state of law, freedom and economy, tax reduction, support for families, education in freedom, rapid sanitation and a climate of security. In the face of an elitist independence and independence, the People's Party demands an open and inclusive society and policy. These years have wanted to make us live a loop, a wheel like that of the hamsters, which runs unadvanced; they spend the day talking about RUI, they spend the day talking about DUI, independence, disconnection, historical days... With so much historical day they have forgotten from day to day, the real problems of Catalans. We don't want a Catalonia closed or folded; we don't want a Catalonia Matrix that only benefits those who live from the business of the process, the freight and the subsidy. You bet to live trapped between the Pyrenees and the Jews, and for us the world is much wider. We don't want borders, we want connections; we don't want barriers, we want freedom. We are working to build a world-wide Catalonia with a cosmopolitan mindset, which leads growth in Spain and Europe, and, among Catalonia, a strong Barcelona, which is the capital of the Mediterranean. We don't want a government that goes around the world explaining that the law will be blown, we don't want a government that no one wants to foreigner, we don't want a government that fills money in fantasizing or ball diplomas. We want a government that devotes its external action to opening up our economy, our culture and our universities. Before a policy of winging, we want to return to the situation of Catalonia as a motor of Spain. Mr Puigdemont, Spain is not an occurrence, there are many centuries of shared history, some better than others, but at the end they have left us, and we feel very proud of it, a great country. You recognized during the debate on the question of trust that Catalans in Spain have a much higher per capita income than that of the vast majority of European states. What we need to do right now is work because the conditions of Catalans are better, and that doesn't give the rest of the Spanish and Europeans the bait, and that doesn't live in independence. Spanish is a web of feelings, family ties, economic, cultural and sports bonds. Spanish is a platform of unity for Catalans and a common project for all of them. And we can't tear this apart because of your electoral interests or to hold on to a few more months. Mr Puigdemont, leave your voluntary retreat and return to place Catalonia at the forefront of the great shared project that is Spain. Abandon its policy of isolation and separation; its policy of border, trench and barrier, which can only harm and harm Catalans. I already know that it's more convenient to be always engaged and to live repressed in the heaviness; but spread them, be it good, for the dialog and not for the confrontation, Mr. Puigdemont, is not with the « conflict or conflict. Let's go back to putting Catalonia in front of Spain, let's go back to leading the great reforms, let's go back to proposing economic and social improvements, let's go back to politics, instead of confrontation and theater. Before the revolutionary breakup, we defended the pact of reform and evolution. Throughout our history, except in a few moments of sad record, the Catalans have characterized us for our disposition to the pact and the transaction. We've been people of dialogue and people of agreement. Why do they now want to deny the best of our history, Mr. Puigdemont, and repeat the most strenuous scenes of the radical breakup? You've never given good results, Mr Puigdemont. I will ask you a very clear question: at what point in Catalonia's history has radicality and rupture improved the living conditions of Catalans? Never. Therefore, you are working against the interests of Catalans. [[Greetings.]] Mr Puigdemont, I told you in the last plenary, on the question of trust, that the People's Party and the Government of Spain will not refuse to discuss a constitutional reform. The question is, put it. Be brave, Mr. Puigdemont. They've wanted to do things through the back door, and/ or with full or no threat, so it doesn't work or make progress. Mr Puigdemont, be brave and do not deny dialogue. Do not push us against a wall, because whoever bets on the whole or nothing usually stays in the ‘nothing'. In the face of the advocacy of disobedience, we demand democratic legality as the first guarantee of freedom. It is surprising and sad that in the 21st century, in a democratic state of the European Union, I have to be here today demanding the rule of law and the law. To what century do you want to return? In the 18th century? In the 15th century, turning back into a situation of jumping over the laws? The future, ladies and gentlemen, is built by reforming the laws and not violating them, as you claim in most cases. Without legal certainty, ladies and gentlemen of Junts pel Yes, there is no economic growth, there is no civic coexistence, no political stability, no order of any kind. They would have to know that putting the future in the hands of the flag pyromaniacs and the laws is to burn the opportunities of our country and our children. Faced with an interventionist policy situation, we defended economic freedom and the Catalan initiative. Catalonia has been an example of innovation, entrepreneurship and intense work for many years. But Convergence, or the pujolist party, or as I say now, has handed over the government's keys to the leniency of the worst socialism, the anti-systems, those that deny the market economy, the euro and the European Union. In fact, Convergence has always been an interventionist: interventionist in economics, interventionist in culture, interventionist in school, interventionist with entities... You have turned Catalonia into one of the most cherished bureaucracies in Europe. They wanted to convert a different and free company into a customer base. What part of the premise is going to buy volunteers and silences, Mr. Puigdemont? At the expense of health care expenditure, but leaders in ‘political syringuites, propaganda, subsidies and other areas; in this we are the first. The first job of a government, ladies and gentlemen, is not to stifle the work of others, not to spend the whole day putting through and sticks to the wheels of recovery, not to confuse Catalonia with the country of home or to think that everything has to pass through the office of president. Catalonia must once again trust the entrepreneurs, the autonomes, the workers in general. Can you tell me, Mr Puigdemont, a law passed in Parliament in the last four years for the benefit of the local people? One of you. Not one. I can't tell, because there isn't one. Can you tell me a single law to boost economic activity in Catalonia? I can't tell you. Can you tell me what they've done for the economy and for the local people, more national pacts for the break-up and the right to decide? I can't tell you. In front of your dark buttocks machine, we want an intelligent reduction of taxes. Let us bet clearly to stimulate growth and freedom for Catalan society, which needs an immediate reduction in taxes. Catalonia is a tax disproposal, it is the community where we pay more taxes from all of Spain; and it is not by the decision of the central government: it is by the work and thanks of the Government of Catalonia. The company councillor has recognized many times what is an evidence: that Catalonia is running away from capital and running away from businesses for the taxes that are to be paid. You hid the reality from the Catalans in the past debate of the question of trust, Mr Puigdemont, because you said that in Madrid they are going more business than in Catalonia; but what you did not say, Mr Puigdemont, is that in Madrid there are many more and that the balance of Madrid is positive and that the balance of Catalonia is negative. Catalans have, we have right to know the reality of their government, and the government has the obligation to explain it. Moreover, I will remind you that even we have known nationalistic meanings and independentist meanings that have their businesses in tax domiciles in Madrid; for something must be, there will be some reason. Mr Puigdemont, please lower the tax type, especially the lower rate, as did the People's Party Government. Remove the inheritance tax, which is unfair and is a waste for many middle-class families. Before his school model, we defended the freedom of schools and families to sort out his education. We have on many occasions put the future of the school in the hands of radicals who want to end the freedom of the concerted school. The People's Party is the only one who does not hesitate at the time to defend the freedom of parents to choose the school of their children. But we also want a quality public school, which all students can have the same opportunities as the children of counselors; the trilingual language model that independent leaders or most independent leaders fly for their children should also be possible for the children of all Catalans. And that's what we're defending. [[applause]] - And that's what we're defending. Faced with his indifference, we demand an urgent model of support for families. Who are your priorities, Mr Puigdemont? Autonomous communities dedicate a 76_per_cent median to social policies. In Catalonia we dedicate 69_per_cent, eight less than the Spanish medium. Today we have eighty-thousand people, eighty-thousand Catalans on the waiting list to enter a residence. But you, meanwhile, have created taxes or want to create taxes to finance public communication media. With your payments and your frivolities, you have brought the resident sector to the limit. And it gives the paradox that there are 24,000 people with a high degree of dependence who are waiting for their place and, at the same time, we have 8,000 seats in public concerted residences that are empty, that are free. We ask you to unlock the services linked to the service at once and immediately, which are a flexible tool because thousands of people can access a residential center. Their bars with the CUP are leaving a lot of people on the streets of the residences. When you arrived at the government, you eliminated all aids by birth or adoption. We ask, in view of the assumptions of 2017, that I incorporate it into the universal aid for the child from zero to three years and, if it cannot still be universal, keep as small as I begin to reimplant it with force to make them the lowest of the society. What's not a waste is that they're only currently being rebinded by seven_thousand families. We are once again restoring universal support to families with small children, because if we don't support Christmas, we don't know who will pay for the pensions of the future. In the face of collapsing sanitation, we demand immediate reduction of waiting lists. Catalonia has a system of public health that is extraordinarily loaded: a new service of medical emergencies that continues to show dysfunctions, above all territorial, and continuous complaints of both users and workers; services of emergency hospitals that are continuously collapsing and the ills accumulate in the past; visits to family meth or primary care that are given in five or more days represent 45_per_cent, the highest percentage of all communities, while the middle is located in 15_per_cent to other communities. Waiting Lists: What measures do you intend to take the government that you preside over? I suppose they're not the ones that they're adopting until now, that it's bed-locking, they're suppressing private concerts, they're carrying more public centers and, ultimately, they're increasing the users of public health, that's for sure, without giving them more material or human means. In short, the Generality cannot continue to live from the point of view of reality. In Europe, the countries that operate and create occupation are the ones that have the most serious governments led by the centerright and not by radical anti-systems. Spanish is not an example, and we hope you will continue to feel that way. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that Catalonia also needs a moderate left centre for dialogue and agreement. Catalonia can take Europe by example. Gentlemen, where parties that look like the UPC are running hand in hand, people are more vulnerable, like pensioners, who are the most affected. That is why the People's Party – and I ended up, Madam President – today we have presented an alternative. We are the party that speaks more clearly against radicalism. Our main mission is to work for a Catalonia of common sense, a land of integration, prosperity and that I built in place of destroying and integrating in place of dividing. I have done, and will continue to do, a positive project layout, because the People's Party is the point of finding those who share values such as order, effort, freedom, education, quality sanitation or catalanity that adds to Spanishiness. In short, we believe that we represent the Catalonia of the majority. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.21.0	Thank you, Mr. García Albiol. Next, they have the words Albert Botran and Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. They'll talk for 15 minutes each.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.22.0	Okay. Thank you very much. Good afternoon, president; good afternoon, deputies, deputies. We would like to make a couple of preliminary remarks about the focus that our parliamentary group has made on the general policy debate. First of all, to say that we are looking forward to it, making proposals that aim to be constructive and that the toilets that the president has addressed to us, relating to the non-approval of past assumptions, we believe that they have no place. If not, the responsibility for not reaching an agreement, as at least, would be shared. Secondly, we also want to announce that we are facing this general policy debate beyond management, because we understand that this is not a purely management legislature, but an exceptional one, as has been said on other occasions. He managed it, obviously, from day to day is vital for a government, it is vital for a society, especially for those social sectors, therefore, more punished for the capitalist system, which require these policies from day to day, but it is also certain that in the context of the triple crisis in which we are still immersed, the crisis of the capitalist system, the crisis of representativeness of the institutions and the crisis of the Spanish State, there are many sectors of our society that have become aware that should look more there. And so he heard in the past elections, and that's why there was a massive turnout, because he heard the importance of what is leading, and the elections turned around, so around questions, certainly, extraordinary, like the need to open a process constitute or the right's claim to decide that we have as a society. Obviously, not everyone gave him the character of exceptionality, because there is someone who refuses to recognize the evidence, but this legislature, until today, has endorsed this exceptionality, because this country had never until now put a date on a binding referendum. This exceptionality means that it must materialize that this legislature follows the legislature of the celebration of the referendum, that of the actual realization of the democratic rupture with the Spanish State, and of the opening of a process constitute. In the first place, therefore, this must be the legislature that allows the exercise of self-determination. What Catalonia has right is a broad social and political consensus; at least, of this chamber there are 83 Members of 135 who would share this political principle. In which there is not so much consensus, if well, it is the authority to call this reference. There are those who think that if this right is inalienable from the Catalan people the government that has emerged from the polls of 27 September is legitimized to summon and organize this reference; there is no alternative to thinking that this connection can only be there if it starts from the recognition of the Spanish State. These are, to a great extent, the two pulses around which the debate hinges. We are clear where we are, but we want to place those who think of the possibility of the agreement reference, a place, yes, that starts to clarify two examples that are always possessed and that we understand that it has been done in a sloppy way, in a misinterpreted way: the cases of Scotland and Quebec. In the case of Scotland, it was the determination of Parliament and the Scottish Government to convene a referendum that caused British Prime Minister David Cameron to step out authorizing this referendum, so that he could condition the date and the question. And in the case of Quebec it was also the provincial institutions of Quebec, its Parliament, which called for a reference both to the year 80 and to the year 95, which did not take over under state legislation, which did not take over under any agreement with the federal government. Therefore, neither legal nor agreed upon was that Canadian way. What the Canadian government obviously did not do is get involved in judicial repression and threats; it did, yes, what is normal, campaign for 'no'. For the location we want to do, we don't think we're that far away. In November 2013, without going any further, we put to the vote a motion calling, in its third point, to promote the reference unilaterally – read textually – "enable all mechanisms to the abst to make it possible. And at that time there was a vote in favour of the three Members of the CUP Group, the 21 Members of the Republican Left Group and the 13 Members of the Green Left Initiative Group, and the latter was expressed by the mouth of his spokesman, Jaume Bosch, who said: "We share the most meaning. For the Initiative Group - United Left the consultation has to be done. We have to act legitimately by proposing all legal lives, which are, despite the fact that they tend to deny, but it is clear that if the State boycotts and blocks all paths, we will have to find other ways out. And we'd rather celebrate the consultation than go to other forms. They were the words of Jaume Bosch in a talk about the reference. There was no vote in favour, yes, at that time the Convergence and Union Group, but then many things happened: it passed on 9 November; it passed the intervention to the Congress of Turulla, Rovira and Herrera; it passed the attempt to hold a consultation for the legal lives derived from the State and the threats of the State; and last week we found that the government's will, by the mouth of its president, was to celebrate the referendum as much as it did not. And it can be done, it is clear that we can do so, because the technical capacity there is – it was demonstrated on November 9–, the political will as well – or referring or referring – and the strength there is, the strength of all the political and social vent that gives support to the right to decide, if we overcome, it is clear, what we understand is a false debate, the false debate of the agreed referendum. Because, at the very least, if anyone wants a deal, the best thing they can do is put a date on it and start the preparations. We, in this general policy debate, have a series of resolutions on respect for the purpose of realising and agileating the preparations for this reference. For this reason, and we have already said this on many occasions, to the people we are asking to exercise democracy in order to work for a great democratic country agreement and we must prove that we have the capacity, the will and the determination to make good the results of democracy, and to make effective and credible the campaign of the people we defend him "if we have advanced in the recovery of sobrieties and in the construction of the so-called structures of being able to use this popular will. Now that the conditions are ripe we cannot let it rot; now it is more obvious than ever that the class character and author of the Spanish State; now that the oligarchy has pressed the PSOE until the point of forgetting it leaving it still more disappointed the people of the PSC, that one day defended the right to decide from these same forums; now that we are seeing the shameful process to a president, a councillor and two councillors, to whom the prosecutor will sit at the bench of the accused for having organized a consultation, and you are indignant at the question of Catalonia Radio and do not indignant to see elected representatives in a court? [[Greetings.]] What kind of material are you made of? Or more concretely, whose material are their gals? Now, finally, that the celebration of a referendum in Catalonia can be the only question that prevents the replenishment of the power of the corrupt right to the Spanish State, will we now entertain ourselves waiting for a referendum? President, we can't let the time pass. Each passing day must be a day won in the construction and achievement of the referendum. We've been at the table for days to start working on it. From our own political experience and from the analysis that we do, we cannot defend that it is politically useful to remain pending from the state's authorization to exercise the right to decide. For this reason, we defended legitimate unilaterality. At any rate, if the Spanish left at some point, obviously, you get a change in the Spanish State, we'll be there. But we ask, as he did at the time the left-hand spokesman Arnaldo Otegi, we ask for this reciprocity. We ask that, honestly, if this change is impossible for the Spanish State, the Spanish left gives support to the constituent processes that are produced to nations without the state of the peninsula. This would be the first point of exception of this legislature, and a second point of exception would lie in the fact that we have to achieve this democratic rupture, obviously, linked to the will that is devoid of the referendum. Mrs. Arrimadas likes to say quite often in these debates that this Parliament exists thanks to the Spanish Constitution and that we must thank it that all of us here are assured. But that's not true. There is thanks, first of all, to the fight against Francoism, which restored these institutions before the Spanish Constitution existed, and it was a struggle to restore a Generality that had existed from the year 31 to the year 39 the fruit of a democratic break, the fruit of unilateral blasphemy, because that Catalan republic did not agree with the state at that time; because, in short, the spokespeople of the groups, both from Ciutadans, and from the PSC, as well as Mr. García Albiol, sat down in a Parliament that was born a 6th of September; yes, a 6th of September also, but from the year 32, thanks to the fruit of a democratic break. That country wasn't born of a monarchy concession, it wasn't born of a negotiation, it wasn't born of a law interpretation. He was born interpreting the sentiments and longings of the people who had just given his vote. Consequently, we, thousands and thousands of people, want to live in a country that was born from this act of affirmation and self-recognition, and that is why we defend the breakup as a democratic tool. And that brings us, finally, to the third point for which we understand that it is an exceptional legislature, that it is the will to open a process constitute. The independents want the reference because they win the "yes; we aspire to open, in this way, a process they constitute that must be a democratic slave, an activation that serves because the republic that is built follows a power to serve the majority, an authentically popular power. Encany forty years ago in 1976 and he remembered it very well because of the concentration that took place in Sant Boi on 11 September, but the 76 is a year where he also lived many other threads of the anti-Franchist political movement. It is the year of demonstrations for amnesty, which were banned and severely repressed. It is the year in which an Assembly of Catalonia that had not requested permission to mobilize in favor of the Catalan freedoms that came out on the surface and the land was created democratic assemblies. It was the year, too, when Sabadell was paralyzed by a general political wave and, for a few days, as Xavier Vinader said, "the works were the masters of the city. It was the year of the waves of Laforsa, of Rock Radiators, of the construction. It was the year of the liberty march. Also of the Catalan Days of the Dona, which placed feminism another time at the center of political demands. It was the year of the Catalan Congress of Culture, in which the intellectuals of the country made an effort to search the whole country and to communicate directly with their people. It was the year of the finding of unitary institutions of the Catalan Countries; of the State of Elx, much more advanced than it was after the Statute of autonomy of the Valencia Country; of the Aran's claim between the future Catalan State; of the reappearance of a daily in Catalan; of the White Paper of the Territory, etc. This was all because it was part of a slave, part of the popular activity that was living in a country. And this was the basis of the process that had to be done. And if we're talking about 1976, it's not just for the ephemeral, it's not just for the pleasure of remembering everything; it's, above all, for the need to relive a year like that, a slave like that, a popular activation process that triggers a new process. History we know, we know what followed that year 76 and how it was possible to be the liberating dynamics and how independence, then minority, raised the critical view against the pacts of the Transition, against repression, against division and how it paid for it with marginalization, with more repression and with more criminality. But today we have not come to talk about all this, today we want to place all the people in the right party to decide and govern us as society. It is a question, therefore, that we now have what we were not able to do in 1976, the democratic breakup and a process constitute if we do not grasp the impositions that arrive in envelopes that come from the physical powers, which is in the way that it was introduced the article according to the Spanish Constitution, of the "indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards. A process that will start from Catalonia, but that will have to leave the door open to all the territories of the Catalan Countries that, exercising their right to decide, tend to choose for a future shared. Since diversity, we have been bringing the best of our respective cultures and political traditions to hold the courage and the tenacity to come to an end: to hold a referendum, to complete their mandate and, in this way, to set the process in motion. A process that will widen the gap between what we understand today as possible and what we understand as impossible. A process is that it has to be of the people, it will not be enough with the institutional initiative, it will warm the involvement of the whole society, think what you think, believe what you believe, feel you feel. The country is between all of us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.23.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Next, has the word Mr. Benet Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.24.0	Good afternoon, President. President, Members and Members, we have talked a lot in this Parliament about the mandate of 27 September and, in some way, about the electoral campaign that ended with the elections that brought us to this Parliament. And, for us, that mandate of 27 September also contained a cry, a cry of justice clear in the situation of triple crisis that Albert explained. Surely, it is this cry for justice that caused the process of sovereignty, the process of independence set up nervously by the CEO, the Promotion of the Work, the army, the banking and the structure of the Catholic Church, to be carried out during the electoral campaign. When these powers, somehow, are in agreement, it is not only because of their sense of Spanisholity, that it is also often, but it is, above all, because they are alert to the potential for transformation and justice that we have at hand now and here. From here, the role of the Constitutional Court, which is not limited in its actions only to detailing competitions, but to acting with a marked class position, as was the case last week when it maintained the suspension of Law 24/15, the ILP d'habitatge, stating that over the right to the ground, over the right to housing, it is necessary to protect the right of the bank to not lose a ral. First, the bank, and then we'll see, that's what the Constitutional Court judges say, and that's the 78th rule we came here to challenge. I've come to challenge you face to face. In the face of this black hole, we want to build a process of sovereignty that, in addition to claiming national sovereignty, builds words of content to this saving capitalism, not because the CUP – which you say – says it – says it, but because it is asked by a majority of this country. We do not claim, as does the PP, as the majority force, because in the end we deny reality, let's say it, not lime, right? But, starting from the CEO's data, 80_percent of Catalans and Catalans say that the Generality should take steps to reduce the differences in entry existing in our country; not the CUP, 80_percent of Catalans and Catalans said it through the CEO. Because the catalá GDP is rising, but so are the demands for feeding scholarships. And, therefore, not because the economy is growing does mean that the redistribution of this growth must be done with the same equality. For this reason, as we think that public policies, policies to redistribute wealth, are going to be tough, we think that we need to start discussing how we increase revenue, and, therefore, how we modify current taxation. Who says he doesn't pay the most? Who says they don't change the tax? This is a clear reason why we were embarrassed by the 2016 assumptions, and therefore we should, in some way, discuss this issue in the face of the coming month. We insist: not because the CUP says so, but because a majority of Catalans and Catalans say so. The CEO – back to the CEO of 2016– reminds us that a 76_percent Catalan and Catalan are in favour of increasing the taxes to which he has the most tickets, but this 76_per_cent is an 84_per_cent if we look at the voters of Junts for the Yes ; this, with data from the CEO. And, therefore, it is obvious that we have to make a pass in this sense by modifying the IRPF up to yields greater than 60,000_euros; recovering the estates, the inheritance tax of the time of the tripartite; looking for formulas to record the returns of capital, perhaps starting to work with a tax of great fortunes as it was implanted in Guipúscoa at its time, and making it without, for a conviction of justice. Because, in the end, the great fortunes, or many of the great fortunes, will continue to try not to pay through Sicav, through tax havens, through entrepreneurs in Luxembourg..., and if not, we only need to go over the great Catalan families who have gone through tax fraud causes in the last few years for having defrauded millions, hundreds of millions of euros in the public record: the Carceller, the Godia, the Carulla or the Pujol. So who says they don't have more public resources so they can be used to make more public policies? We also think that, in addition to this change in taxation, we need to set it up from an overrun of the autonomic mark, because we need to overcome, or be able to overcome, the policies of deficit and debt of the time of austerity received for Europe. Because we won't have tax sovereignty in admissions if we don't have tax sovereignty in expense, and so if we don't have the capacity to decide what we want to spend money on and set our pay priorities. We object to Article 2 of the Constitution, but we also object to Article 135, a modification, that of this article, which you already know, was promoted by the Zapatero Government, and therefore it is fair to remember it today, after having heard Miquel Iceta's speech when he spoke precisely about priorities in payment. Therefore, we must begin to work to emancipate ourselves from these laws of presuppositional stability, and concretely the Law of Catalan presuppositional stabilization, for which it seems, we begin to reach an agreement, precisely of the majority of this chamber, to modify it in the proper months. Therefore, we are advancing in this direction of sovereignty to Catalonia. It seems to you, gentlemen of the PSC, that you will be able to achieve this modification of the Law of Presuppositional Stabilization in Madrid, of the hand of Ciutadans and of the PP in a government of shame that the only thing you have in common is to avoid the exercise of the right to self-determination in Catalonia? Precisely linked to the question of sovereignty, we have to face and face the question of public debt. Since 2009, public debt has tripled. It has, however, not been for an increase in social spending it has been for the obligation to take on the debt, the interests of the debt and the most interested of the debt in a pilot every time bigger. This Parliament has already approved, at the CUP's instigations precisely, a citizen's audit of this debt. A central and very important audit for us because it has to be used to clarify these 74,757_million euros that they must, that we may know to whom they owe, why they must and on the basis of five contracts and five concepts they must. For example, in the already mentioned case of the Moises Broggi Hospital, which cost or cost, finally, 225_million euros, when the hospital seemed to have no value only 42– I am talking about an example of the time of the tripartite, in case someone has forgotten – with an interest that has unilaterally changed in favor of a banking entity, very concrete, an interest in the upswing and that generated a debt until 2038. Therefore, we audit this debt and value this debt. Because the Union of Accounts has already told us in its reports that this bid, which was carried out by the Caixa, Emte, Teyco and Agbar, four totally unknown actors in the public contract, could be cancelled because it violated principles of transparency, equality and non-discrimination. Therefore, the legal arguments are there, there is only a need for will and political determination to stop taking over the powerful, the privileges and those that always end up with the pasty. Because in relation to our public resources we will not accept that they continue to be transferred up, as always, and into the same hands as ever. And we will work against those who want to continue enriching themselves at the expense of public services, and for that reason, just as they say two Catalans, according to the CEO, than to private operators in public health. Last week the critical week uncovered which forms part of the boards of administration of the main enterprises of the country and unveiled us – or, let us say it, reminded us – an authentic structure of state that we have in Catalonia, that is not said nor « own tax agency nor « agency of social security: it is said « Criteria. And this structure of state named « Criteria, which has temptations to Natural Gas, to Repsol, to Abertis, therefore, curiously some of the names they mentioned before, of the great families also appear in these boards of administration: the Carceller, the Daurella ; also appear there, therefore, prominent owners of the Godó Group, or ex-advisors of the Pujol Government. It is an authentic magma of interrelations, but curiously, here in the middle, as the lost trunk of all these boards of administration there is one of the pairs of the Constitution, Miquel Roca and Junyent, lawyer of the king's German, accused of fraud, and who is a member of the board of directors of Abertis, ACS, Endesa, Banc Sabadell, Aigües de Barcelona and many others. So, when last week Anna Gabriel deia, from this same Faristol, that the State is the business hub of the IBEX 35, that buys volunteers and builds revolving doors, tax fraud, and that the artifex of the 78th Regime are also the artifex of the current bailiff, so, I don't know if I'd say so much..., thinking with so much literality, but the reality is coughed up in this sense: Miquel Roca was a father of the Constitution, and today is the king of the IBEX 35 board of directors. Therefore, we bet to overcome this bank of privileges; we want a country that is public, with structures of state on the margins of the great powers, and that is why we want to serve public public of public title, without detail, without privatization, without externalisation or any other formula that makes us lose control of it; because "sovereignty" means that we have full control of everything that is strategic and everything that guarantees rights. And it is that in a scene of overstretched resources, peak oil, we bet for full sovereignty: food, energy, residential, cultural; we bet for a model that is sustainable, that I stopped trinxing the country and began to take care of life, also outside Barcelona, on pay. A model of country that is sustainable from the hand of a strategy of decline that changes the productive and economic model, with projects that think about the people of the territory and with life in the center. We think that we are in Guissona's Areas and that, in change, we lack pastors and pastors; that we lack pages and pages; that we lack a strong primary sector, will rise, with the ability to earn life in the country, to fear globalization, transgenics and large producers of pigs. There's not enough with a climate change law; it's good to do it – it's good – but there's not enough, if after what we do is build the most incinerators, if then we don't go door to door, if then we don't get back, as soon as we do, the hydroelectrics of the Pyrenees. Because this debate is the debate that we have had in this chamber on the subject of Aigos Ter Llobregat, one of the most important public enterprises; it is a debate that we have won all those who defend the public service. And this government, that of Junts per el Si, has already undertaken to recover the public title if the judicial resolution of annulment of the award to Acciona is maintained. And that's on the right track. Just as in the right way the performance of the Department of Health, which does not privatize more CAP, differs from what was going on with the government of Boi Ruiz, and therefore gives a compliment to the 9-N resolution, which was mandated in this direction. And, therefore, we are pleased that you have passed through the construction of a real public domain. Because in this way, in that of the reverse of the detail, it's where we'll find ourselves, because it's an authentic space of transversality of the country, that so claimed value. Because depending on how we define public services today when we live tomorrow. And because it's hard to imagine a cohesive country without a strong public school. Who says not to defend public school? We cannot imagine a country without a public school that continues to find everyone, that serves as a space of opportunity against inequalities, a school that runs the streets, a school that makes us proud and proud of the human and cultural heritage that we have in this country. We live or want a country, and therefore we want a community alone, and to have this social cohesion we need a school alone, which we think must be eminently public. And in this, this government has not acted in the right direction. This course we have lost sixty-one class groups from the public school, which are now P3, but then they go up and, therefore, we lose educational classes. I know it will be said that there has been a demographic decline, but why haven't we told them about the concert, these sixty-one groups? Why do we find ourselves in places like Palamós now that there are more concerted school classes than public school? Why have we unbalanced the model in favor of the private model, when the concerted model, precisely... – and the Greuges Synod, let's not say it, let's not say the CUP, the Greuges Synod says it – when the concerted school model is having a leading role in school segregation. Therefore, what we have to do to work against school segregation is precisely bet for the public, invest in the public and stop closing groups to the public. Because this Department of Education, instead of betting to eliminate "barophobia, what has done has been to accept privilege, build walls and endorse exclusion and marginality. And we will pay for this; if we do not return to this situation now, we will pay for in the future that marginality is valued in the education system. The Greuges syndic says so, don't say it the CUP. So, who says no to defending public school? I'm done. The philosopher Josep Maria Esquirol speaks to us of the intimate resistance as to the attitude we must have in the present. Says Josep Maria Esquirol that the game is played now and here and that it is not going to be postponed, right? , that somehow, if we postpone, what we do is resign, and that, precisely, the one that has to resist is to try not to give in. And he proposes two of them to us, to the resistors, say, or to those who want to be resisting: memory and imagination, which says that it is not exactly the same as hallucination. For us, in this context, it is a reminder that the last time this country had a republic, it was a lot of money for the public school, because some things came to be called "the Republic of the Masters, the Second Catalan Republic". In fact, unlike what the Junts per el Si government has done, in the first two years, to Republican Catalonia, it has created 1,019 public school classrooms, 121 to the Islands and 1,035 to the Valencian Country, it is to say 2,175 classrooms to the total of the Catalan Countries. The Catalan Republic was committed to public education as the centre of the debate and as the centre of transformation and political action. I suppose that's why it's no accident that, for example, in the case of Girona, the first female director of the assembly was the master, Antinia Adroher, of the POUM. Therefore, we have memories and dreams, if we allow ourselves, in this sense, to resist. We are here to work hard in this direction, but only in this direction, in that of building a public country, a country that wants to distribute wealth. And in order to do so, we will make every effort, our arms, our hands, our heads, to the point of courage. Now, we are aware that all of this will only be won if all of us who defend these premises work folded, with mobilization, with debate, with criticism, with venal consciousness, union, civil, social, cooperative, from all walks of life; a collective struggle that must make every step of the Republic full of rights and full of social justice. And I conclude, President, by taking the thoughts of Hannah Arendt, in this sense, on the common and shared freedom, that this project of ours has only a chance of success, that it is to keep us active at all times, without delegation, discussing everything and everything; go, always resisting. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.25.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. On behalf of the Grupo Parlamentari Junts per el Si, has the word Lord Jordi Turull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.26.0	Thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members of Parliament, in the debate on the other day of the question of confidence, we were to say that in those of us we would focus very much on the great objective of this legislature, and, in fact, on what the natural nature of Junts came out of for the Yes, that it was to make Catalonia become an independent state, and that we would leave for the plenary today, so all those questions that are more sectoral, more than day by day, more than anything else that is already to be done, therefore, and that girls and girls are thinking about progress and the welfare of all citizens, right? And that's what we're trying to do today. And in a general policy debate, as important as seeing and listening to what the President and the Government propose to us, it is also to counter it, therefore, with whether there is any alternative or no alternative, isn't it? And so, it's logical, even though someone doesn't like it or someone's swallows, so we contrast what the president has said with what some others have said, right? The President's speech, the President's speech has been a dense intervention, as I think I correspond to this type of debate. The President has been very explicit, has entered perfectly into the detail, full of data, and the data have been so much about the work done during these nine months, that it has been very, with the result that they are giving some strategic or even difficult decisions that were taken a while ago, as, above all, what the Government intended to do. And all this from realism, not taking away the difficulties, but with confidence, yes, with full confidence, in the potentials and possibilities that we have as the country; in contrast, if I may, to a very defeatist speech on the part of some who, frankly, seem not to know the country, right? From all the intervention of the president we want to highlight above all that there is score, that it is not to hear, that there are clear objectives, very clear, and that all the measures that the president has given answer precisely to these objectives. Because it's not a matter of doing things to do things, it's a matter of doing things with meaning, and the actions described by the president take meaning precisely with all these objectives. On the other hand, at other places we haven't seen a score, we've seen a lot of lost, a lot of alternative, but from the house of the keyboards, sweeping down with them, but at the consistent alternative, honestly – and I'll tell you later – we haven't seen any. Let us, however, go to the speech and intervention of the President, who we share, as he said, fully, and who, in fact, was very well connected, with the 'thinking globally and acting locally, with the immaterial repte and what we can suppose and how we are to move with the issue of climate change, connected to another issue not less, but which connects one thing with the other, such as the bet, therefore, to make it easier for everyone in this country to vote, to decide: the issue of electronic voting. The president said: "The problems of the world are the problems of Catalonia, and that is why it is still more important to be able to have a personal view of them. On the basis of these inspiring principles, we must be able to assess and identify whether the girl actions respond to the objective which has been set for us as a government; objectives which, I insist, we share, and which he has placed in an energetically efficient and sustainable country; a country connected territorially; a Catalonia present and active to the world; a country with a new model of productive economy; a high-quality occupation that reaches everyone; a welfare state that is a real guarantee of equal opportunities, with a social protection network that dignifies all people; restoring trust in institutions, and a country that is just and secure for everyone. It's not about being Superman, Mr. Iceta, it's a simpler thing: it's about knowing where it's going. And what President Puigdemont – and the government – demonstrated today is that he knows where he's going and from here, the actions respond to that. That's why he said that he had been dense, not in a negative sense, all the contrary, in a sense of a solid and powerful intervention. I am surprised at some interventions, if not that they came here with the autopilot, with an intervention already prepared, without having listened to the president and, from here, they made their speech, right? It is incredible that some people say: "You only talk to us about independence. And you just have to talk about independence. The president spoke one hundred and seven minutes, one hundred and seven; I don't think I've spent more than two minutes on independence. It is more, today, about independence, you have not spoken much more than the president. And that's why I think it's important to listen, and from here on out, to think, which I doubt some have done today, right? What the president has done, too, I insist, in his intervention is not a matter of triumphalism, no; it is of confidence in the country, in its potentialities, that, from trusting these potentialities, it can end up benefiting everyone. Because, listen to me, apart from his speeches, we defend that, for what is the country, the whole country, there is motive and basis for hope. And that's why we value the data the president said, because we don't have to be proud of the whole country. When he spoke from the point of view that we are an industrial referent, that we have already surpassed the objectives that the European Union had marked, but that, moreover, he says: "We do not look at ourselves since cophoism, because the national pact for the industry must be a more impulse to not stop in this sense; when he spoke that Catalonia leads the constitutions of mercantile societies; when he lies with data – and today Mr Albiol has recognized it – that they leave more companies in Madrid than in Catalonia... And this mantra that Catalan companies are leaving because of the independence process..., all this is not true, in the more part of Madrid, if it is not that in Madrid a phenomenon is produced, as we were announced the other day that it is produced in the United Kingdom, of the angle separatists, that in Spain there are Spanish separatists and that therefore in Marx more than in Madrid than not in Catalonia, right? Many data have given the president, especially as pioneers in many themes, that they all have one thing in common, that is the value added to the new economy that sees, in the field of research, in the subject of innovation, in the subject of foreign investments here in R+D+I, etcetera; that we are his of the 45_percent of multinationals implanted in the Spanish State. People need to know about this. The 88_percent of Japanese businesses established in Spain are in Catalonia; the 84_percent of American businesses. And they are not because they are; they are because there are thousands of entrepreneurs, of helpers, because there is a lot of talent, because there is a series of actions that makes them want to come here, but there are also because there is a government that helps them, right? Catalonia has been recognized as the most attractive region to invest in southern Europe for 2016 and 2017. Wings of the world? We are the wings of the world, who are pioneers with all you have to see from us out and out to come here? There's no sense in it. It is also important that we put it in value, because sometimes the criticism makes us lose sight of it, as in our universities or the level of occupation that the people of Catalonia who come out of these universities, that we keep them among the best in the world. That's why he sees so many people out of the state here in Catalonia, studying and not so many in Catalonia going to another place. And we have to put it in value, because sometimes so much criticism can make us lose the perspective of this. And some say: "No, but in this the government has nothing to see. Home, going from three universities to twelve... something to see the government, something to see the different governments, isn't it? And we need to put this in value. We don't have to do... because since defeatism is not built in position, right? What's the repte? The challenge is that all these potentials, all these positive data revert to the country itself, in the first place creating decent jobs, with decent wages and better benefits for everyone, right? And precisely many of the actions announced for the president go in this direction. Therefore, it is not a question of triumphalism and co-foism; it is a subject which, before reptes, you trust or do not trust in the country you have. Because the president said: "We have many reptes..., which is not a repte of government, it is a repte of country. And that's why it's good that the president mentioned it. Another thing that surprised me. Someone said: "The president did not talk about this. This must have been written before the president could hear it. They can't tell us the president hasn't talked about the weather. But how can you say the president didn't talk about the event? The president gave data about the event in a positive sense, because the trends respect some criticisms that we have much better than those of the Spanish state, but the president also made self-criticism and also talked about endemic issues of the event and that we need to find the formula, as it is, to give it out. The president has talked about youth, which we have some data, we have some very good data, and that is why there are different programs, not just the Youth Guarantee, but also, so that we can give out to this. The battle of the Atur must be insatiable and must not stop. But how are we going to help fight the weather? Just reinforcing, and that's why there have been so many proposals, where they are the basic pillars of our economy and above all those that give added value to it, that we can export so much to the world and that the world comes so much to Catalonia. That's what we have to do, isn't it? But you have dedicated yourselves to finding or searching, with the one who seeks rovelons, where there are negative data of each thing. Lost. And then they don't realize that they put at risk the prestige of a lot of things that we can have, or they seem to depreciate the great effort that a lot of people make in these camps, don't they? You in the field of education have sought to see what foundation I find because this given comes to me or because that given comes to me, but you have given it to me that you too have forgotten them, have you not? And that in any case, it's up to us to remember them, isn't it? : as the rate of graduation of the ESO, therefore, has increased from 82 to 88_per_cent– therefore, it is a trend, because, in politics, as in economy, the important are trends– or early school dropout has increased from 27.9 to 18.7, nine points in these later years, eh? But then there's a topic that you didn't talk about – you didn't talk about it. And he says, "What does the government do with this or that? Aren't they interested in vocational training? They haven't devoted a minute to it, have they? They haven't devoted a minute to it. In dual vocational training, when asked what this government has done, from its inn in operation four years ago, it has gone from 600 to more than 7,800 pupils, from 25 to more than 200 educational centres, from one hundred to about 2,900 enterprises, with a 59_percent job placement of the remaining number of graduates. That's all good. And today the president – because I saw that there had been criticism – announces that he will make a public offer of occupation so that I don't know how many masters, many masters, two thousand masters, well, the people..., it seemed that he announced, therefore, as anything else. Home, behind this decision there is an effort and, above all, there is a priority. Or another very sensitive area, which is a victim of politics as few other areas, and is the model of salvation. I want to say loud and clear: we have a system of salvation that is the envy of many and many nations of the world, and that is why they come to see us, more than we go to see them. And these same cities value it. Before the president gave some data: more than 5.7 million people, with 45 million visits, have been attached to our system. And people value it positively. And we're in the midst of the countries with the most hope of life in the world, we have professionals that many countries would want among them. And, in turn, it turns out that it's one of the areas in which there is, I insist, more politics, more wear and tear. The president has also announced 2,500 more professionals in this area, and they have also looked at it as in the past, as if it were not important, because that means that there is politics. According to which claims is fan [[Funnel veils]] , according to what... – yes, no, then –, according to what claims he is a fan of our model of salvation are an authentic crime. Speaking of crime, he said: "We're leaving... have we taken care of your health care system? This, that the state locksmiths have tried it and someone between coffee with light and coffee with light has also tried it or has done the height of the state locksmiths [[remorse of the voice]] They didn't get it – they didn't get it – or they didn't get it. By the way, I don't know why talking about this came to my head, Mr. Dante Fachin. Miri, I'm asking you for a little bit of rigour when I talk about concession or privatization. They ask for a little rigor because they can lead to confusing people. One thing is a concert, the other is a concession and the other is privatization. When we talk about recovering services, it is because they are granted or agreed, in no case privatized, there has been no privatization. Because if you were privatized – and if you weren't angry with Mr. Albiol – it would be like, "Rita, Rita, what's given is not taken away. But if we get them back, it's because public ownership has followed the administration. If you don't believe me, you may not believe me, I am invited to go to the Barcelona Assembly; Mrs. Colau will explain the differences between one thing and another. He will say to them: "Look, do you see? That was before a third-sector entity brought it in, and now it's Mr. Florentino Pérez, ever since I was mayor. [[Greetings.]] And from here you will know the difference between what it is to privatize and what it is to grant. But stop playing with the prestige of the health system, because Catalans, when they go outside, there are two things they find missing: one, not all, but above all one, which is food, huh? But the other is the system of salvation. Because when something happens to someone out there, what they ask is that they immediately move out of here. How many people outside Catalonia are operating in Catalonia and how many in Catalonia are out? Only with this would we have to go a long way with how we qualify our system of salvation. And that's thanks to everyone, starting with the professionals. Another aspect, in relation to today's debate. When it's a balance, it has to be present in what conditions the government acts, it has to be present. Because, of course, it's not the same as doing it in a pleasurable way that you don't do it with enormous difficulties, is it? And, of course, there's a date that I think you've been through, that's that the government has had to act and do everything that the president has announced without a presupposition. I have seen today that from all the ways – from all the ways – the word "retailed" did not appear very much. Because Mr. Dante Fachin said to us: "The great change that Junts has assumed for the Yes. No, no, this year the big change knows what it is? That this year the details were starred by you, concretely 850_million euros that the government made available to the people and you said: "Neither talk to us. Let them wait. [[Greetings.]] This... no, no, this is the big change. So, if they're looking for guilty because there's no more money in this area or in that, they have them perfectly, that they're all those who voted for the whole thing, right? Why, of course, what did he stop doing? You say: "There must be more beneficiaries of the minimum income. Yeah, there might be 5,830, there's not a lot of people, and there aren't. Why? Because there's no presupposition. There has been talk of the fight against the poor child: 14.3_million euros– no, no, no signyali there, no signyali there, because everyone is not the same, responsible, when he votes a goal to the totality–...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.27.0	Please, this is a debate, it's not a dialog. Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.28.0	... 14,3_million euros more than there could be for the poor child, the struggle against the poor child, and they are not; 10_million dollars for the whole fight against the poor energy, and they are not. Why? Because Mr. Montoro's gone. This was the big decision. Home care increase: 6,500 people. Could there have been more people? They're not there. Why? Because you decided you weren't there. The reduction of 10_percent of surgical waiting lists, all that there were from Health, with these 830_millions, is not there. Why? Because you decided you weren't there. Or extend the social rate in the waste water to 42,000 families in Catalonia. They're not there. Why? Because you decided not to. O 162 million more in public transport. They're not there. Why? Because you decided not to. Unbelievable that you are coming here, asking for more things and more resources in social matters, if you put 850_million euros for more social spending, and, you, your decision is to say that they are hoping, that Mr. Montoro has stayed. Therefore, according to what you require, please don't come, because this year the clippings, the guilt of the clippings..., it's exactly you: 850_million, I insist, it's not hot. But, despite this, these difficulties of the premise, the president told us that 76 per cent of the measures that had been approved in the plenary of the poor, are being pushed or have already been carried out. It has acted decisively – it has acted decisively – in the whole matter of the denunciations, more, with a half of 3,600 denunciations the year that have been avoided – that have been avoided –, that they have not sought excuses of bad payer, that has neither sought as guilty the Mosso d'Esquadra nor went to make Captain Enciam for these mons de Deu. They acted and avoided each other. And that with all the presuppositional difficulties. I don't understand... Mr. Iceta told us there hasn't been any leadership in this whole issue of housing emergence. Mr. Iceta, have you not come to all the summits that have taken place with the mayors of the most important cities? If there was anything these months, it was precisely the leadership to address, despite addressing the problems that the Spanish State posed to us, the whole issue of the poor housing, the social emergencies that existed. And, besides, I want to highlight a great deal of agreement and consensus, so between the municipal world and what is the performance of the Generality, right? He's had to act without any presupposition, and that's got to be present, isn't it? But then there is a matter of substance, which you all rely on – more spending around here, more spending over there – and you know that the real problem of this country and the real problem of the Generality of Catalonia is not at the expense, it is not because of a lack of political will to spend more, but rather because it is in the entrances. First of all, we have an endemic problem, which is the tax policy that we are doing, which now recognizes absolutely everyone. Since 1986, 8_percent of the wealth of this country has come and gone. Do you know what all the rest of the Spanish State means and doesn't come back? You know what that means, don't you? It is the equivalent, every year, of total expenditure in health, education and family welfare. I mean, it's not like we could do more when we're not in the Spanish State, it's like we could do exactly twice as much, because the equivalent of this expense is the Spanish State. But then, as we want to get more resources to deal with this asphyxiation, when we are looking for resources based on the taxes they have most, the ones they have most of the truth, huh? So it turns out that the Spanish State, with what it says, loves us so much, Catalans, so it neither does nor lets us do it and challenges everything, right? What else do they have, the deposit of bank deposits: how many millions of euros could we have and because of the Spanish state we don't have? And these are the ones they have most. Or nuclear power, which is... the Spanish State has preferred to act in favour of energy companies. Or telecommunications. That's all we've been looking for to try, in this meantime, to have major tickets, and the Spanish State has brought us to court and has suspected us. And the great conclusion of some is to say: "Well, as this can also not be, so let us go to charge even more the Catalans, those who risk, those who are entrepreneurs, those who are not speculators. And, therefore, we believe that where we have to put the battle is precisely in these, therefore, that they are taking all these resources from us, right? Certainly, Mr Albiol, you say that taxes must be lowered. This latest corporate tax reform, you know who's hurting the most? As always, Catalan companies. So, you don't talk so much about lowering taxes and promoting Catalans, and you make the Spanish state get over this reform, do you? And before this situation of asphyxiation, of course, then the Spanish State does it, then you see us, then, like Father Carbasser, huh? With the stamp stage, which is said to be FLA, which is the Fons, not of liquidity, of autonomous liquidation, huh? It's the major thing that's been going on in this state for the last few years. [[Widow's remorse.]] The State is wasting our resources...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.29.0	Please, respect the word tower.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.30.0	... don't give us any, he'll stay, and then he'll say, "I'll leave you now. And, Mr. Albiol, you say they're not paying interest? From 2012 to 2015, EUR 1,900_million. Do you know what that means? Three times the social security plan, of 285_million euros. No, ah! This year? Ah! Oh, my God! This year, no. Everything they've charged us for the other years, no. Do we get $1,900_million back? Are they coming back to us? Don't let them come back to us? Please, this FLA..., I don't know how much they have to say: "We offer you, but then we give you some money that you will pay us with interest, with 1,900_million euros, right? So, it's amazing, according to what demands there is here, isn't it? And, for what it's worth, on this line of esteeming Catalonia – and this is another difficulty for the government to face, huh? – If we don't have enough of it, we don't have enough of it to be usurers with the FLA, etc., in the policy of the assumptions of the State we go to estimate Catalonia. How does Catalonia feel about the state? So, for example, failing the Law of Dependency – failing the Law of Dependency. They have an obligation to pay 50_per_cent and to pay 18. "You have to comply with the law, you have to comply with the law, the law that, look, would be one of the good ones for Catalonia – 50_per_cent – it turns out that you do not complete it, don't you? Three hundred and thirty-six million that this government would have to do things, and it doesn't have them because it doesn't comply with the law, does it? But it is that, in addition, of all program financing parties, you have reduced 92_percent of social programs. Is that your concept of estimating Catalans, Mr. Albiol? I don't feel so much, and please– I don't feel so much– [[relays]] Because there are loves that kill, there are loves that kill and theirs starts us, so, to smell, right? And if that were a little, then some think – and we would ask that in view of tomorrow's resolutions – resources are unlimited, and they are not unlimited. Some people think it's true, and then what's going on, that they can leave a Generality at the point of failure, but they're not unlimited or there's a machine to invent tickets, or we don't want to do it is pay with a tag, that's to say, go spend a lot of money now and what's coming will pay for it, right? But there has also been a theme that has not been talked about and that is equally important for generating opportunities and for generating resources: if all this economic obec is already difficult, if after we enter the land of the state's investments in Catalonia, then we are already entering the unknown size; unknown because we assure you that we do not see it. The PP i Ciutadans always say to us: "We have to talk about what interests people. Miri, every morning – the president said today – there are 400,000 people who are interested in knowing, first, whether the train will arrive or not the train will arrive and, if up, with which level of delay will arrive. They don't have any shame here. But I'm going to give you an example: of all your speeches, how many criticisms of General Railways? Not one. Do you know why? Because it's the difference, how we serve Catalans and how you abuse and deceive Catalans from Madrid. That's the big difference. Because the users are very clear..., and the East Valleys look with great envy at the West Valley, because there are General Railways there and we are still on the train that could perfectly be called the zipper. And all this can't be ignored in any way, because then for us the government's action takes much more value, doesn't it? Some of you have been joking..., said: "It is you who have been saying that when we are independent, they have been saying all day, so you will live better. So much so that it will live better, and that's why we want independence. So much so that it will live better. Do you know why? Why do we put it the other way around: with the data given by the president, with what up to being this country of potentiality, of openness, of being the first in many things..., you imagine what we could become, what we could get to be, what we could get to help the people, the day we bring this in the form of tax havens, in the form of incomplements of investments, in the form of boycotts to all our external action, in the form of a taca to our democracy? So long as we live better when we're still independent! That's why we do it, we don't do it for anything else. And that every time you see more people, and that's why every time there are more people who, by using their vocabulary, prefer to "better neighbors than better united, each one at home and Europe at the home of everyone. And all this you should have in mind at the time of evaluating what is government action, at the time of evaluating what is the layout of everything that has been exhibited today by the President. We have an opportunity tomorrow. I want to end this reflection. The president said to us this morning: "Do not be ashamed of coincidences. We won't be ashamed of ourselves tomorrow at any time in the vote, if we understand that that's what it's about to help people, if that's what it's about to make people go well. We won't look at who proposed it – and we'll take over the president's job – and we won't look at who proposed it, but we'll look at what's proposed. I demand that the resolutions of this general policy debate are more thought-provoked because they vacate well than not to look good, because if they are fan to look good they will do something that is very difficult, that is to play with the sensibility of thousands and thousands of citizens. I don't propose things that they know they can't complete at these times, because there's no worse way to generate expectations for those people who need it the most. To that people, who are most of them silent, because they are angry at their home or they can't go out for a thousand reasons, and therefore to these we will never see them manifest, but who will be among the first to need help. We, our willingness to reach agreement will be and will be all the way, but I insist that we continue to propose girls from realism. We, President, share that we have many challenges, that we have many difficulties, that we have many shortcomings, but also very many potentialities. And we understand that if the objectives are clear, we can get over it, and even more so if we think that we can soon take out the instruments to decide and the resources to serve, because then, sure, sure, we will make a country absolutely first: first for everyone and first for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.31.0	Thank you, Mr. Turull. Mr. Fachin, why ask me the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You know what? It's that now the president will speak, and then all of you have a turn of speeches, because he's called himself many, and in any case, they'll be able to answer. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I know it's hard, but no, because it's been named, apart from you, more... with the deputies who have spoken before, too. And in any case, after that, all of you have two minutes to respond to the comments you have made. In any case, now, to answer, the very honorable Mr Carles Puigdemont, President of the Generality, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.32.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your interventions today. Thank you, too, for the effort I am sure you will make to reach agreement with all the groups, and for this debate of general political direction of the government to produce recommendations that will improve and enrich the governance platform that this Parliament approved on the 10th generation. Mrs. Arrimadas, I will begin by referring to the group's interventions. Surely some of the answers will be hollowed out, because inevitably you have also made reference, sometimes with the same arguments, to the same questions. Surely it was inevitable to do so, but I will try to answer the whole set of issues, regardless of who, with some of the spokespersons, addressed me more specifically or not, even though I touched it. Madame Arrimadas, let'mdir-li', from the entrance, that I grow, with some of your companions who have made use of the word, that today they have erred a bit of debate. Because today they are coming, surely, thinking that I would dedicate myself to what you say in the monotheme, and surely they have thought of their own propaganda. They didn't listen the other day, because it wasn't monotheme either. They have never listened, when we here in Parliament have had control sessions and have worried us with exactly the same intensity as any of the things that affect Catalans. Like you were repeating the propaganda that "these people are only interested in the independence process, you came to make a reply thinking about independence. In fact, they're right, because everything we've dealt with here – social policy, infrastructure, health, business promotion, culture – all of this, obviously, has to do with a state. But in a very different way from how you approach it, because you think, as I think Mr. Turull has now taken very good care to explain, that when we make a claim for a similar state it is because we like that some of the spokespersons, Mr. Iceta, talk about a menu of happy Archadia or the idyllic place in which we are happy to be disconnected from reality and we can see that problems do not exist. As much as they believe their propaganda, things are as they are. And, therefore, today the word "referring" has been said more by you than by me; in fact, I have not said it – in fact, I have not said it. After all, he came to say that he had not spoken of corruption, and of corruption he did not speak; of referring, no, but of corruption yes. Therefore, they come with the least prefabricated speeches, do not put them in the microphone, only to enter here, in Parliament, the thawings to see what they can do, and listen more to what we have to say, because I have tried. One hundred and seven minutes, I don't know exactly if it's 107, 108, 109 or cent and I'm out... but, man, they're asking you to look at them. We've spent a lot of hours preparing it! Of course we haven't touched everything, it's obvious we haven't touched everything. It's not a threat, I'm not going to do the second phone call; we could do it, but we understand. We already know that parliamentary technology says that everything that the government has not said today, because it has considered that today may not be the time to touch it, you will say that it is missing. If we had taken over what you found missing, you would have said that what you found missing was the other things. Okay. We already understand this and I already accept it, but please don't come with a ready-to-wear speech, because things aren't like the propaganda you say. All of it – all of it – you just accused me, or accused me this morning, of triumphalism. Actually, it wasn't the only one, was it? There were other people. But, of course, it's what you accused me of being a victim. Clearly, both things are now... either victimism or triumphalism. That would be as strange as wanting to deal with the PP and the PSOE at the same time... alas, I'm sorry, that you do, that's what you do. [[Some applause.]] It's true – it's true. Yes, yes – yes. [[Pause.]] It's true, I hadn't thought of that ability that you have to be in all the papers of the water, even though it didn't end well between you two. He made a statement..., this, well, I find it exaggerated – not coming from you, coming from who it is – say that "you" refer to us –, we don't know what the real situation is in Catalonia. Miri, we may not share the diagnosis, we may be opposed to the policies, but I will never be able to tell any of you who are... that they don't know what the real situation is in Catalonia. They may be unaware of part of the territory or part of the Catalan reality. But an accusation to someone who governs the country – whoever it is, who it is, who it is, who it is, who it is – does not hold on to this magnitude. He can't hold on... I could just repeat the data I told him this morning about my activity, for example, territorial. But I could give him more than four hundred activities, outside the Palau de la Generalitat, that include congresses, meetings with employers, attendance at acts in chambers of commerce, meetings with territorial lobbies or territorial plataforms that have some kind of complaint... So, he might say he doesn't agree, but he can't say that. Because it's going to be wrong again, as it was wrong the day they decided to make the language a political confrontation element, which today I'm glad you've disappeared from your argumentary – I'm glad – because it was wrong and it's always necessary to rectify, even though it's late and even though some of the damage that has caused us to be the others that we need to correct. It is also interesting, and it would be recommanable, to give rigorously. The data of the twilight – the data of the twilight – show that all this apocalyptic vision is not certain. Look, I'm looking at the latest data from the recorded event, which we all know just yesterday, and as I said... as I said, every September since the year 2008 the event has grown. In this case, a 1.28_per_cent respects August for the finalization, as I said this morning, of seasonal contracts linked to the summer season. As I said, also, respect a year ago, the weather has fallen by 12.1_per_cent. Is that going better or going worse? At my house, the reduction of the weather is going to better, at his house I don't know; but here it is clearly going to better: three points more than the Spanish midwife. Who's better, Catalonia or Spain? It's better Catalonia, you don't embarrass him to recognize it. It's all right, he won't deny it, this time, that the process scares off the investments. But recognize that Catalonia "of the process, which you say, turns out to be three points more than the Spanish medium of reducing the weather. And we're wearing thirty-nine months of year-on-year descent, which is an intense reduction in the atm, with values above 10 per cent since May 2015. The contract has pushed a 14,1_per_cent respect a year ago, much above what the global Spanish has done, I remind you of the xifra of this morning. Do you know how much the contract went to the Spanish global? 6.2. Again, what is the largest 14.1 or 6.2? Here, 14:1. What does it mean to be better? So, 14.1 in front of 6.2. Social security affiliation, which is another indicator that is not to be ruled out or diminished, has increased by 3.9 in annual terms. If we take the latest data from the Active Population Survey, in Spain the weather is around 20_per_cent; in Catalonia, around 15.9. Do you guys compare again? [[Pause.]] All right. We have more occupation in Catalonia: Catalonia, 66,4_per_cent, versus Spain, 60,3_per_cent. And we evolve much more intensely in creating employment in Catalonia, a 3.5_per_cent in front of the 2.4_per_cent the Spanish State has. Atur reduction, second quarter of the 16, annual: Catalonia, 16,9; Spain, 11,2. Second quarter of the 16th: Catalonia has led the reduction of the weather in the State. That's why we want to have a close state – that's why. Because without the proper state, many of the labor policies that you keep us can't do them – we can't do them. We must be able to lay down an agreed labour law with all economic and social agents. We must have a catalysed framework of labour relations where contractual arrangements, labour flexibility, but also the rights of working people, to regulate the minimum interprofessional wage, to avoid pursuing old policies. The vocational training, which I have already mentioned this morning, which the ‘Spanish State is continuing to associate with school children and which, in the case of Catalonia, is clearly a way to succeed in finding work. So..., and let's also remember that, for what it does for employment policies, the State has drastically reduced them; concretely, between 2011 and 2012 a 56_per_cent, and at these times we get a 39_per_cent less than 2011. And since he was saying that the weather is unequal for businesses..., sure, it's obvious, because the region with the most hard we have in Catalonia is the Lower Penedès – it's the Lower Penedès – with a 19.4, you know what the social and economic actors of the Lower Penedès are asking for? So that you solve fears that at these times they belong to the Spanish State and that the Spanish State insistently blocks; for example, the national 340, of everything deficient and for which the mayors, united under the Pact of Berà, have demanded solutions from the ministry, which is certainly insensitive to improve the toll to its inhabitants, to pass the trucks on the highway, etc. Or a territory that suffers in its own by the delays of rollers and regionals, on just stop all the trains, to Sant Vicenç de Calders. Therefore, it is clear that there are businesses that suffer more severely from the crisis than the others and will endure; but do they know who are the elements that would noticeably help to gain competitiveness? Elements that are not at the abst of the Autonomous Administration of the Government of Catalonia. And we want to stop being autonomous to be a State so that we can give the people of the Lower Penedes and the people of all the territories of Catalonia lack competitiveness because the State does not complete those opportunities that they deserve. The question we have to ask ourselves: do you also agree, or not, to reduce, for example, the lack of competitiveness of the people of Baix Penedès? Or didn't you think of Baix Penedès when he was talking about the weather situation? Mrs. Arrimadas, I agree with you that we need to improve. You're right. And I am convinced, in addition, that you can make interesting proposals, and I am saying so, in addition, with the will to arrive at agreements in this sense. And you see, Mr. Turull has said it, and I repeat it: the hand in those things that you are in the condition of helping the government to pull forward for the benefit of self-employed people, entrepreneurs, workers, we agree. Because you're right: there are things that need to be done and that we can do if we get to work together. But we also have to give the data rigorously, and in this concrete case, let's talk about a statement you made and Mr. Iceta reiterated it: "With you as president, there are more barracks than with Mr. Montilla. You don't know if it's Mr. Montilla's, Mr. Iceta thinks he did mean the previous governments. But you came to say, "You have more barracks than you have. He came to say something about this guy. Okay. Let's give him a precise data for the theme of the barracks, which also serves as an answer to Mr.Iceta: it's false that we have more modules than ever – false. At the 2009-2010 course, there were 1,063. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 2009-2010, 1,063. Now there's 1,010– there's 1,010. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, yeah, no, but, uh, I'm saying this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.33.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.34.0	You'll say... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] I didn't say at the moment...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.35.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.36.0	...I didn't say at all when I felt proud...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.37.0	We respect the chorus of words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.38.0	...I didn't say that I felt proud that Catalonia had barracks; I've never heard it say, nor will they ever hear it say. What they won't hear me say is a lie, is that today there are more barracks than yesterday. That's not true. [[Greetings.]] Since the 2010-2011 course – also the Government of the Left, Mr.Iceta – there have been fewer centres in barracks; moreover, until the year 2037 – 2037, eh? – You have to pay for the 241 centres that were built between the years 2004 and 2011. I mean, it's easy, it's easy to make infrastructure trusting the bills to the child and the grandson – it's easy – so you know everybody; you know everyone to come here to Parliament, and to work but forget that things turn out to have this little flaw: they have to pay, huh? And that when it comes to paying for them is the other, it turns out that the thing that takes away the flood, that can't do things, is actually the one that is spending a large part of its money to pay for the debts that were done during its stage. On..., I will then go further into the subject of teaching, because it has been touched by various groups and I think it is worth the thought, above all the light of the Bofill report, which has been brought to light in various interventions, but only, Mrs. Arrimadas, a given, because I would not want it from his words that this Government creates a menu of selection or separation for reasons of origin. As far as we have the best results from students coming from outside, we do not separate the students by origin at the time of evaluating results. I don't know where you come from, but at the time of assessing results, this government doesn't separate students for reasons of origin. And let's say that it has generally increased the percentage of students who graduate to ESO, that we have reached 88_per_cent, and that in basic skills the percentage of students in lower fringes has decreased. What do you mean? So, that the social lift works, that school as a social lift works, and that despite the difficulties – that we have them – the system works. And just an asterisk to a little bit of a page: when you compare situations of autonomous communities to talk about education to school, that they do, if you please, with autonomous communities that have the impact that it has had in Catalonia, with the intensity and, finally, the territorial distribution that it has had, and that they also take into account that it is not the same for an autonomous community that has a very low level of immigration than one that has with Catalonia the reduction from almost zero of the resources of the Spanish State dedicated to these policies precisely. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, this effect should be taken into account. If they're interested, if they're interested and worried, that I think they're honest when they say that, what's the deal with the new students, they should be interested, and now we'll see, if they have the opportunity to make some of these pacts that they make in Madrid again, where they have this priority. I'm charging them: I can... please get back the Spanish State's commitment to all the policies they have to deal with immigration, and it will see how this concern should disappear. I finally, a note on the subject of the debt. On the subject of the debt... I'm sorry, before, about the waiting lists. Waiting lists that have been said... you and Mr. Iceta have also coincided in a period of two years of waiting lists in places of residence, if I have not understood it badly. You already know that the assumptions of the 16th allow an increase of 1,500 places with a endowment of 32_million euros, which would have allowed noticeably to reduce the waiting time to access a place of residence. Still, efforts have been made to reduce waiting time and, at these times, many residents of Catalonia have much less than four years of waiting time and in many cases less than six months or one year. I have the concrete list, residence by residence, name by exact name, month in which the request was made, and it does not hold by place that you say – and it is not decent – that it takes two years to get a place in a public residence. It's not right, that. And I can pass it on from all the residences... not from some, from all of them. You will see the calendar, you will see when girls are the oldest requests and you will see that in an exceptional case they may exceed two, three years, but in the majority – most – they are between six months or one year. What are you? I agree, too. So much good there is immediate response, but let's get back to the principle, equip ourselves with resources. You'll help us to have resources, get us assumptions, these or others, and you'll see that we don't have six months, even two too many serious ones, because when there's a situation in a family that needs to be served..., using a residence of this type, it's that usually this decision cost, is expected to take it, because it's looking for a way to see if it can be reconciled with the family, and when it's already taken, sometimes it may even be too late and, therefore, among all of us we should make the effort to be able to give a quick answer. The deute, as I read it. It is certain that there have been a few exercises in which the payment of interests was the third department, if I wanted to contemplate so, the third department in importance of the Generality, only to after Health and Teaching. Of course, we didn't deny it. They won't find us false data. Let's explain the data when they favor us, and let's explain it, and don't deny it when we're not doing well. But that's as a consequence – it's also true, that, and that's not an opinion, it's a given – of Catalonia's financing problems, which in recent years do not come from an exaggerated expense, because they have been able to prove it to you, but from clearly insufficient entries. It is in this way that a lack of entry leads to a deficit and that years of deficit lead to an increase in the debt. Not at all have we been reducing the growth rate to the point that this year 2016 the rate will be for the first time at pre-crisis levels of 2007. Just as a reminder – also for Mr.Iceta –: the growth rate of the Generalitat debt in 2007 was 6.1; 2008, 32; 2009, 23.2; 2010, 38.8; i 2011, 23.8; 2016, 6_per_cent; 2015, 12.1_per_cent. Therefore, also in time to compare and to want to talk about the debt remain strict and use the data as they are. Who increased the debt more? So, look, it turns out that it wasn't this government, it was the left-wing government that you once treated as an example that they did care about people and we didn't; we don't care about people, something that didn't happen, thanks for telling us, huh? Now we'll worry about people because you said so. Therefore, Mrs. Arrimadas, I believe that you today came with a prefabricated speech, in part, after you actually touched on fears – because you are not so seen – that I had also exposed. But I'm more willing to come to terms with you than we are, and if you want to match things that make this country better, we'll find ourselves. Mr. Iceta, you passed him a little bit of the same, because you started talking about the reference and talking about having made a description of an idyllic picture of the country. I don't know where he saw it. I won't play it again for the hundred_seven minutes, but where have you been in those hundred_seven minutes? Because I've talked about the past, I've talked about youth, I've talked about situations that aren't talkative people, I've talked about job insecurity, I've talked about temporality, I've also talked about improving the need to have the contract in the tourism sector, for example, in better conditions than we have. That's all I've been talking about. I didn't... well, you wanted to listen to it, and I'm sure you have this parliamentary appeal that you want to make things work, so there's some idea for the people, but I didn't describe it as an idyllic country. The idyllic country that I have is going a long way from what we have now. If you wanted to describe an idyllic country, believe that we would surely even coincide. And the only thing I regret is that this coincidence of an idyllic country, which would be very extensive, you don't help us enough to get there and which is resigned – which is resigned – to the limitations that you know you have the situation we have today. And that with the instruments that we have today is very difficult – very difficult – that we can give certain hope, not naive, not illusive, to the people. We can't tell people that with the tools we have right now, we'll improve everything we need to improve because it's fake. I know. Is independence very uncertain? Yes, of course. We've never used it in our generation. You're obvious. If I said to him, "We have the perfect instruction manual. That's never gonna hear me say. Now, to say that in the current situation..., to think that someone believes that after almost forty years of trying everything, with the current situation are solved structural problems – not conjunctural, structural – of this country, this, believe me, is playing with people's hopes. And that's not true and you know it's not true. You know, more than that, with experience, because they governed you and related to Madrid. And lately they've had a lot to do with Madrid, and they know what the limitations are, not for big projects, but for very concrete and very abst projects, which should not be a problem and end up being a problem. This leads him to say an exaggeration that comes from you I'll say he does a little. You literally said I'm leaving people behind. He said: "You leave the people behind. I, the truth is that I disagree, I can hear it, but "let people go back? You think you leave people behind when you don't vote for the generality's assumptions. I will criticize him because he limits me, limits us concrete things, but tell you or any other opposition group that to make a decision is leaving people back, this is a bit of an abuse. It's a little too much. It's more, it's very unfair, because if anything we've done since we took possession without a solution of continuity, it's not stopping to face the problems and try to bring solutions and bring them. He talked about pensions, and I like it so much that I talk about pensions because, do you know when pensions are at risk? , not independence, which still isn't there; they're at risk with Spain. In these moments [[applause]] It is the Spanish State that puts pensions at risk and if something is to be feared today's retirees and above all tomorrow's is that if we don't change, the Spanish State is causing a serious threat to our fellow citizens' pensions. And we have a duty to defend them. We won't be resigned with arms thinking that it's not our competence that they'll fix it or they'll space it in Madrid. "If we have the fate of the PP government, we will have arguments and one day we will be able to govern ourselves, and if it is the Socialist Party that does, look, we will explain, that the global crisis does not allow us to push our pensions. So, look: pensions are threatened now and they are not threatened by Catalonia's independence, but independence is the solution. [[Greetings.]] And I'll tell you something else, because I'll make it clear; I'll tell you something else because I'll make it clear: it's not going to guarantee pensions for Mr. Rajoy the president, you know? Neither by active nor by passive, by voting discipline or by abstention. [[Greetings.]] The main threat to pensions..., [[Funnel veils]] I know, that you share it, but you'll have to see after your company votes when the discipline of the party is imposed and it turns out that Mr. Rajoy has to be the solution of all the evils of Spain. And you'll explain it to us very well, much more – you'll explain it to us very well. You said we had the wrong priority setting. Well, I'm saying you've got the wrong priorities. I must have the same authority as you to say. You have a lot, and so do I; so we're even, huh? I think you don't have the priorities right, and that's it. What I will not do will be so grotesquely reducing the political project that you defend, because to say that we defend independence, that it is very difficult, we are a glue of it ·uses, touched by a magical thought in which there is a magic rod that will fix everything... Home, I do not return it to the grotesque because it is not respectable with so many people that in a very serene and strict way defend this option, as legitimate as the others, as it is, is not laughable. Are you hard? Yeah, I admit it, but it's as respectable as the other one. And, therefore, this idea of associating people who are illustrious, disconnected from reality, people who think we're gonna hit a button the day they're independent and they're done with all the evils, it's not just fake, it's awfully unfair and you know it, and it's more impromptu. Let's hear it from other groups, miri, that's for sure, but you don't. And, uh, I think you should check it out next time when you're talking about this. When he talks about the debt, I've already answered the question of the debt. Just a given: do you know that 70 per cent of the Territory and Sustainability assumption is destined to pay the debts of the time when you ruled this area? That's it. Is it possible to do political things with this? Because I hope you don't tell me that what we have to do is not pay for it. The compromise to pay is integral, absolute. But I think you know the chart, that you're leaning for another band – if I don't remember it badly – on the government's website, where you clearly see the department's reversal and its financing. And do you know when the ravens are separated? When you ruled. Do you know when they're back together? When we rule. And I think it would be interesting and honest for you to look at this gap, because this gap, even though the crows are now pressed, it doesn't disappear, it gets reddened and mortgages the assumptions. A lot, let's mortgage it! Because what causes this is that we don't have, for example, the money that we should have for the maintenance of reelers, which is an issue that almost affects life security, but it turns out that we have an unbearable debt that we have to be responsible for the payment and you want us to be, above all, responsible for hiring it, when you were. Therefore, I speak with rigor and, obviously, I believe that the solution is not – in this sense we agree – that the Spanish Government has another government of the People's Party, because it has not only changed nothing, but has taken everything away from it. I'm afraid you're not trying hard enough to improve the funding model or that... I don't know, I don't remember the expression that you've served, as if you've resigned or been in this debate. Well, you agree with me that the 1st generation of the year you're going to be three years old that should have put the new funding system into operation. He agrees with me, because I have spoken to him, with them, that there have been autonomous socialist leaders who have decided to lead him. Exactly with what results? Can you tell me what results, the socialist autonomic leaders who have said that the need to change the financing system has been achieved? Zero. Is it therefore the fault that the Government of Catalonia has decided that we will not put ourselves in front of this claim that there is no funding system? So no, because your barons when they decided to take responsibility, say: "Now we will fix it. So, look, it's been three years and the People's Party government won't have done the dues it's forced to do. On education, I also let it be given, some data that I think it is important that we take them into account, and in this sense I will also take advantage of to make a more general answer to the Catalonian Group Yes, it is Pot, that it has also touched this issue and that I think it is worth paying some attention, taking into account the transcendence and priority that it is for this Government. Mirin, on the Bofill report, we agree that more resources are being used in the education system. We agree, don't say no. So, first coincidence. We're looking for ways to have more resources for the education system, all right. Now, I'm not measured in terms of GDP. Catalonia cannot spend on GDP as independent states, because we would have to be an independent state to be able to do so, because education in Catalonia does not re-finance it as a function of Catalan GDP. We'd like that. The rep, theoretically, for the population, but, more than that, corrects the bass. What's the matter with you? Therefore, if they want to compare what we do in teaching efforts in relation to GDP, they give us the tools to measure us in terms of GDP, which would be an independent state. While they finance us – because this is the reality – in terms of population and the low, man, they don't give away that we don't allocate the percentage of GDP to education, because it seems to me that this is – you know it – to make a little of a trap. But we agree that we need to increase resources. And, in fact, so much so that the proposal that we presented to the Parliament of Catalonia was already an increase in the significance of the band of two thousand masters that I said this morning, that I announced their contract. But we're going... you, Mr. Albano Dante Fachin, were saying that we don't limit ourselves to the headline, he says: "The headline says that. It's true, the headline is talking about Laos, and he's talking about Peru, and he's talking about Ecuador, I think, if I don't remember it badly, but let's go to the little letter. What does the report say? Miri, say different things, interesting all of them. He says: "Despite the greatest risk of school failures linked to family insecurity and fair-game retailing, primary and ESO outcomes are not as affected as they may seem. In the first place, the Pla March inn for the reduction of school failure 2012-2018 begins to give hopeful results. He says: "For example, in the tests of primary-syses competitions, there has been a significant reduction in the lowest scores levels between 2009 and 2015. In an angled language, the scores have been reduced by 19 points; in the Spanish language, the reduction is 14.5 points, and in mathematics, by 10 points. I don't know if Laos has this, believe me. But it turns out that, finally, the data that this report gives us are closer to what are the behaviors of the countries to which we want to assemble than to the countries with which we have no relationship. The score gap between high and low-complexity primary schools in Catalonia has been reduced, and this is a struggle against clear inequality, also recognized in this report. At ESO; there is a greater number of results in years of crisis and austerity. It must be more related to the retention effect of continuing to study and self-supervising before the excess of time that with reasons of pedagogical change and docent of the same institutes. Another date I think it's important to take into account. The tuition fee for this year marks the 2012-2013 course a new historical tape with a 90.6_per_cent. That's to say, he won 13.4 points compared to 2007-2008. Yes, yes, they feel good: 13,4_per_cent more the 2012 course than the 2007-2008 course. And for the first time, says the report, Catalonia has younger years of schooling, not Laos, not Peru, not Ecuador, than Denmark, than France, than the United Kingdom. Do they look, like, a given good or a given bad? So let's just say it all. We do not try to reduce to absurdity and grotesqueness what is a report that says many things, all interesting, all those that go well and those that go badly, of course it does, when it is said, and does an academic, scientific effort to say very interesting things that are very useful to us. We don't make it absurd because it's not fair. Because people, when they bring the handcuffs to school every day, know that they are not carrying the handcuffs to a school in Laos, with all respect. [[Some applause.]] I know. For many reasons. And finally a data that will also allow them to matish a little bit of this, let's say, imagine an empasifada point that they dedicate to the teaching sector in Catalonia. The real per capita educational expenditure in euro currents in 2013, do you know who was at the top of everything – at the top of everything? Obviously, the Basque Country. Do you have anything to see that I have an economic concert? All of it – all of it – you've got to see it. So is it important or not that an autonomous community collects and manages its taxes? Absolutely decisive in what you all say and say is so important to the country that it is education. So, look, this tall crow is the Basque Country. But do you know what's going on? That Catalonia is not the last. Do you know who's down there? Madrid. And Catalonia is exactly in the middle of Spain. Despite the difficulties, despite the detail, despite an underfunding that is done on a low population, despite this, thanks to the effort of many people – and here I will not point to the Administration that does not approach it – thanks to the effort of many people the education of this country is very much out of the picture that some of you have wanted to project with the comparators easy to hold, but not with a small letter. Mr. Iceta, in any case, after... I'm sure... I've left many things, for example, the Bretxa on the origin; I think I've already returned it before, when I referred to Mrs. Arrimadas and, therefore, I won't insist on it. Senyora Ángels Martínez, de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, I thank you that you have located a literary referent, the Lewis Carroll, Country of Wonders. It was about time that someone varied the references because for many years in this Parliament there was a single reference, which he certainly said a Member of the City who certainly had some problem with the tax issue. I always said this was Matrix. Hey, you remember, some of the veterans? « This is Matrix. Here is a government that wants to present us with a reality, when reality is another and... Home, I was already a little sweaty, and I thank you very much for having sorted out a classic of literature, even though it is to attack us, no, sorry, to criticize us, and it has done so with great respect, to say that, finally, the country of wonders, effectively, there is the other band of the Mirall. Look, I'm talking about the environmental issue, which you have treated as an example of some of the things that we don't do well – then I'll untie another one –, it's true that the cement plant... You think you talked about the cement plant in Sant Vicenç dels Horts, if I don't remember badly, don't you? Cementers cream residue, yes – yes, yes, cream. Two facts: the creams at two-thousand degrees of temperature, which means zero contamination, and the creams with a regulation that the government of the tripartite, for which Initiative for Catalonia was responsible, allowed to give energy value, which seems to me good – which seems to me good – which I defend, which is well done, but we do not pose the body to people in an unnecessary and little documented way. [[Some applause.]] It is not certain that there is contamination from a cream that is two-thousand degrees of temperature and that ensures that there is zero contamination. About, too... you've done one..., re, you've done well, more so, talking about the dress you wore when you came to Parliament to talk about fibromyalgia; the counselor tells me you're all on the way, maybe we've done it more late, sure we could have done it before. I, if I had to tell him which dress would be hard to refer to the chronic deficiency of salvation, would have to go with shorts, to be consistent with that. [[Rialles and some applause.]] Because it goes a lot further, still. Short pants, yeah, huh? But, go on, in any case, I think you've understood what you wanted to say and the years of the crisis have brought us that basic infrastructure and policies have been implemented more late. That's right, we don't have to cheat. The hospitals in the Valley of Hebron would have liked to put them on the market long before; the campus of the Kiss, too. But the important thing is that someone decided that, despite the difficulties, they would do it, that maybe it was better to spend a little bit of shame to say: "We did it later – it's true and they're right, but we did it – not to say: "Look, as there's no resources, look, we won't spend and live more comfortably, we can keep those salaries and things that would cause social conflict, and no one will find it missing. So no, this government in its moment makes a difficult decision, some difficult decisions, and this was one of them. You asked a big question, didn't you? , a question that reminds me, if I don't recall badly, the impression he had I don't know if Josep Pla or Salvador Dalí when they first arrived in New York and saw that illumination, says: "And that, and all that that pays for it? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! Well, so I asked him the same question, because, of course, you're making a series of extraordinary proposals, we certainly all agree, but when I count them, I say, "Oh, and who's paying for it? How do we pay for this? Why, do you know what some of the measurements are worth? And surely in the motions for resolutions we will have some, let's say, joy in this sense. Miri, of course we want to have the welfare levels of the most advanced European countries, it's a country commitment. We agree with you with... I'm sure we all agree, but what would that mean? In order to be in the middle, we would have to increase the teaching assumption by an additional 5,000_million euros, that is, an increase of 87_percent; in salutation, 5,300_million euros, that is, 55_percent of the assumption, and in social protection, 1,100_million euros, that is 53_percent more of the assumption. That is to say, in general, more or less, EUR 11,300_million– EUR 11,300_million–, the assumption of the Generality only for these parties. Can you do it? And why don't we? Of course we could. We could do that because we're generating enough resources. This money, we already have the Catalans, in fact, we already generate them. We're generating more. 11,300_million euros that would allow us to increase 87_per_cent teaching; 55_per_cent greeting; 53_per_cent social protection, we don't have to ask the FLA, we don't have to go looking for the international bank, we don't have to do them or just push taxes, we already have them every year. And get in, and don't come back. And this is the reason why we insist on linking the social agenda to the national agenda, because after forty years of telling us that all this was possible with the State of Self-Government, reality denies it. [[Some applause.]] And every time we try to make changes in this sense, reality denies it. And no way in this direction, there's no way. So, what do we do? So let us give it to Catalans and Catalans, speaking in Catalan, speaking in castle, speaking in another language of the many spoken in Catalonia, having arrived six months ago or having the seven or eight acquaintances of the Catalan notices, it is the same, saying that all of them, each and every one of them, their fiscal effort is not all destined to improve their welfare state and that with our money it is indeed better the welfare state of other autonomous communities and, therefore, we must say, clearly, that we are changing this, or that we are all helping to change this state... It is not a matter of a political party, nor of a government, nor of Parliament, but of the country, of the person who is in this country, or of the people who are in this country, but of the people who are in this country, thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking. That's what we want to do. I don't think there's a more graphic way to say it, why we want a new country. To Mr. Albano Dante Fachin: It is true, there is a Catalonia that is unequal and unfair, I agree. I think we're reducing inequalities, I think; not enough. And it's true that we have a problem because the macro economic growth we have, that there are and that they are supported, is not transferred enough to correct the inequalities, it's true. And so, here we have a repte, which has nothing to do with the TTIP or the paper that has a political group in the European Parliament. Together for the Yes you do not have MEPs as such and Together for the Yes you are faithful to your government program, with which you are running for election. It has nothing to do with all this, it has to do with the recognition of a reality that we don't like Catalonia and that we have decided to put everything we have at the bottom to correct it; everything. When I say everything, I mean everything: political risk and personal risk. Because we could resign and make the song of a point of political cynicism, to say: "We will try, now we will negotiate, there will be an agreement and then... We already know that this does not carry anywhere. And as we already know because we were not protagonists, I admit it. Even the whole game, let's say, which I went military to many years, was the protagonist of this culture. He did it with a very good conviction. Some result, but very little in relation to what you wanted like Catalonia... So, from this point of view, all the self-criticism. And so, too, all the moral authority to say that we already know what this is about. If anyone knows what's going on, it's us. If there's anyone who knows that the Spanish State is a deal failure expert, that's us. If there's anyone who knows this path hasn't gone over, it's us. And, therefore, we are the ones who today have the most moral authority to say that we need to try another way. And that's what I'd like, first, to suggest and move. I know that you... well, you're going to make a motion for a resolution that we can certainly agree on which one is, or may be, the way to define the future policy of Catalonia, because I think we agree that the tools of this state, which are close to one state, we need to be able to take them to make these policies. Then we will discuss whether politics should be more in this sense or more in another, but I think we want to have the opportunity to do so. I thank him... that we can move forward in this line and show that, despite the differences... – that we have and some of them are great, and that we do not need to go too far now, but that they are – that, despite these differences, we are trying, we are, even though they are small sons of agreement on which we can advance the country. I think it's worth it – I think it's worth it – and that, for my band, I already told them in the investment speech... – I forgive –, yes, also in the investment speech, but, in the speech of the question of trust, that we went this way. You say, but..., tanmateix, you say: "There are things that can't wait. It's true. There are things that can't wait. So don't tell us to wait for a day when there will be a political astral conjunction in Spain in which it will make it possible for what is sometimes more difficult to decide to change the things of politics, which will allow us to change the things of the Catalans day by day. If we can't wait for a lot of things, which I agree with, don't tell us now that we wait, that we put in the freezer the demand to make a reference for independence until there is the astral conjunction in Spain that allows us to make it possible. You tell me that I've obvious – I've obvious – talking about independence. No, that's not true. I did not say the word 'independence'. I think I made myself very clear, very explicit a week ago. I don't believe – honestly, huh? , with all modesty – that can be accused of ambiguity, I grow, neither in the proposal, nor in the calendar, nor in the methodology. Therefore, he will understand that today... – if I have already made it clear, if I believe that, moreover, no one has doubts –, that today there is no more emphasis. You found it missing. Well, I celebrate; but now what I had interest in was talking about independence, yes, but in another way. Because everything we've talked about has to do with independence, everything. That is to say, if this country wants to improve its attention to health, education, infrastructure, business competitiveness, or has the very first tools of a state, that many of these states that we seem to have, or will be very difficult to agree on. About the taxation – and also representatives of the CUP have gone this way – I will talk about it in its turn, but there is a principle in which we agree, but it is already applicable, which is who has the most, the most paid. Okay. In fact, fixed's, this is the model of university scholarships – this is exactly the model of university scholarships – which does not happen in other autonomous communities. In this case, who has the most, the most paid, and who has the least, the least paid; certainly, compared to other autonomous communities. This is a model, of course, but we're already doing it. Now, let's put 'em in, you know what the big fortune is, gentlemen of the CUP? Do you know what the great fortune is in Catalonia? It's called the Spanish State. This is the great fortune we have. And this is the great fortune that we have to make, this is the great fortune that we have to say to him: "Look, these moneys, which are resources of the fiscal effort, which is very high, of the Catalans, these, are the ones we need to pull in front of the country. And, therefore, from this point of view, if what it is about is to record this great fortune, here of course they will find us and we will agree. Finally, sir... – in any case, after I am loving your reply – Mr Albiol..., you have started with something that has left me quite – quite – bright. I don't know what kind of information you have, I saw on the day of the investment debate that they weren't really reliable, but I thought that's what I had already checked, because they were making a mistake, but tell him that I'm having a meeting with the president but at the Palau de la Généralita... or is that, where does it come from? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The House of the Canonges, it's the same – the House of the Canonges, it's the same. My house, it's the same. O... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But that's what we're talking about, is it? Because it's clear, it's as simple as asking. See, if this comes out of the CNI, I'm worried. Well, I'm worried no, I'm glad, because I mean the information they handle is very defective. [[Some applause.]] But it's... it's thanks to me, what I want you to say, because it's not just that it's bluntly fake, it's that I don't care. I, with the President But, I speak when I like it, often, where it is. And, in addition, President But, as you know, as expressantly has a formal departure to the Passeig de Gracia, to Palau Robert. Why do you think we should be picturing...? Listen, I, President Mas, have not only a political affection and a political admiration, but a personal affection. But to say that the dilons are gathering together... he will explain to me where he came from, because, frankly, who has come to him this bike or wants him very badly or is very poorly informed. And so, as a source of information, I recommend that the proper information that comes from this makes you pose as a quarantine, it's not like you still have a worse skate that this one. You took the thick line today and said the thick things, didn't you? We've lost our sense of reality and prudence. You're telling us, aren't you? The party of Fernández Díaz, the party of the Margallo, the party of the garden of Mr Wert, the party of the embassy to Rabat that costs more than all the assumptions of the external delegations of Catalonia. You're telling us, what about losing your sense of reality and prudence? All right. Go, I don't know, sure... I'm happy to belong to visions of reality and prudence different from their own. [[Rialles.]] Because if the vision of reality and prudence is what you describe here, that I honestly believe, seeing the electoral results of this country, it is not what most people share, I think we are going for the right path and you certainly don't go that far. His concept of Parliament – when he talked about making a game, he denigrated the question of trust – perfectly describes what his vision of democracy is. You are harassed by parliaments, harassed when they approve of things, harassed when they use an exemplary democratic mechanism, which is when a president loses most of his face in Parliament and asks, "Is there a majority in Parliament or not to continue ruling?" and stops, if necessary, to call elections. This is the capture of our vision of democracy. And you're annoying them. It bothers them that things are coming up; it bothers them so long as, at last, the Spanish government has not ever appeared in the Spanish Congress to give explanations. It's clear that it bothers them, I already understand, and that for you, so for any Democrat who is, let's just say, averse to democracy, it's normal for you to bother him solemnly. So, look, the country we're going to do is going to be much more based on democracy than the Spanish model is – much more. And the accountability and transparency and the fact that Parliament is going to pass as a priority of the system and the politics architecture of Catalonia of the future, much more than we can do now. So he gets used to it, because that's what he sees. I already know that you are a bunker and in Madrid you are trying, either directly or indirectly, to do some sort of thing similar to what someone has said in certain games, to achieve the effects without having to pass through Parliament. But you think that this has gone too far, you have come to say, after all, that we have left the Government of Spain alone, that they are trying to help us. Poor guy! Ostres! I'm sorry for everything! Poor government of Espanya! I've... I don't know, huh? When I went to see President Rajoy and presented those forty-five points to him, after President Mas... – forty-six, if I don't recall it badly, one more, forty-six and one – after the twenty-three points presented to him by President Mas..., believe me, head, head, head. Is that helping Catalonia? Is that really helping Catalonia? Do you think the people, let's just say, are you short? You think that the people, who are seeing a president of the Generality who has twenty-three points, that they are not... even so, let's say, based on the political project of the majority, but that they have the support, and even so, of the business lobbies, some are closer to you than to us, and that they say, "Listen to me, these points should be completed. And that when I went wide to forty-six, and that they're all sensible... because, in part, they belong to promises or agreements or laws that don't apply, and that don't complete, cap, and you have the bar to come here to say that Spain is trying to help Catalans! But what did you think we were? What are we P3 kids? [[Rialles.]] That they don't know how to read things as they are? How would you qualify that, of forty-six points, some of them of obligatory compliment, because they are approved Spanish laws, are not there any at all? Do I qualify to help? So, look, as Mr. Turull said, better that we don't feel very good about it, because if this is his notion of esteeming us or helping us, we already know who the future is waiting for us: black. So, don't... don't exaggerate. I know they're gonna make him a paper that now, when there's government, he'll still fix himself: a government that sure as hell will have Mr. Mariano Rajoy, that even if they can get the PSOE squared, that Ciutadans will come back to deal with you..., that's all. And they have told him, or they must have told him, that the Government of Spain wants to help the Catalans. Look, help is demonstrated with help, and you are unable to put in a genuine help from the Spanish government, which is not leaving us our own money. That's not worth it, that's not counting on the help, don't admit it with the help. Tell'muna_sola help that the Spanish government has placed in the Catalans. I would say that it was the compliments of that, of that announced and of that approved. Fixis, they don't ask for anything else anymore. For example – I give you an idea – the Mediterranean Corridor; for example, the additional provision of the Statute – for example; for example, zero..., the box of the IRPF and NGOs; for example, the scholarships, the management of the scholarships. All of this. I give you examples that you don't have to change your mind, you know, you don't have to touch a coma of the Constitution, do you? You don't have to change the law, do you? You must do one thing that you claim to others, which is to complete the laws. Can you give me some of these examples, why can you believe a little bit more of the propaganda that the Government of Spain is helping the Catalans? Because you know this isn't right in any way. Of the debt, I have already spoken of it; of the financing, too. You said that, in short, he's done a toilet trick, that if I don't know what, that if... and nothing happens, he's gone, and nothing happens. So, miri, yes, it is – yes, it is. It happens that we have government here, you don't. It happens that we have plans here, you don't. It happens that here we recover better than in the Spanish State, as I said, with the data of the twilight, and you don't. It's all over. Can you imagine what we could do to dispose of the tools of a state that we don't have, like at least, against in all these areas? So, I'm sure we'd be doing a lot better and the people who've been through it badly in this country would be grateful. There's one thing I can't admit... two things. You spoke of independence as a form of vagancy. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The power I have misunderstood... – I'm sorry, therefore. Yeah, you said..., if you didn't say "vagance, huh? He spoke of "vagance, I understood "vagance. I don't know, if he didn't say "vaganza..." or, in any case, accused us of being "vaganza, vaja, somehow. All right, fine. Hostia... - Forgive me! [[Give me the applause.]] Excuse me, excuse me... [[Widow's remorse.]] Excuse me, excuse me, because it wasn't my...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.39.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.40.0	...but it's what came out of my heart, because, you know what happened to me when he talked about "vagance"? [[Pause.]] Mr. Mariano Rajoy. [[Rialles.]] He showed up to me, and I said, oysters! I saw the image... [[voice remorse and applause persists]] Mr. Mariano Rajoy at the time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.41.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.42.0	...and got away with it as long as I missed a word that I didn't have to escape and for which I asked...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.43.0	We're trying to keep the shapes, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.44.0	...honestly, without irony.....forgive yourself. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no... honestly, I didn't mean it, and it's already, and no, no... but there's one thing that's more hurtful. Miri, I already admit that you associate with people who don't work, but you said, "Political autism." You don't use, if you please, situations, say, people who go through with it badly to disqualify the opponent. You don't make him serve. [[Greetings.]] Because, of course, when you use these words, you should be aware of the evil that they do to families that have a family, or even all, without being familiar, classmates that have an autistic person in class, or people who are engaged in third-sector ventures, and third-sector entities that are helping one of them, let's say, more difficult situations than there is for a family. When I hear of some political representative banalitizing and using this as an insult, do not raise – do not raise – the category of the country. So I didn't admit it. I know you didn't mean it badly. I know. But that's exactly why we have to try to be curios when we say things. And that we don't... we should eradicate this kind of expression from the vocabulary of politics and toilets. And, finally, you're asking for agreement, asking us to make a proposal, right? , reform of the Constitution. Okay. First, ask us something that we don't bring to the election program. It's worth it, huh? But, go on, look, I'm fine, because I'm going to ask you things that you don't bring to the election program and you can't tell me that it's inconsistent. You ask us one thing that we do not bring to the electoral program, which is to reform the Constitution. He asks us, after all, to make a proposal. Do you know what's going on? It's that we already did it – it's that we already did it. And do you know what they did when we made the proposal? They dedicated themselves to gathering firm opposition to this proposal. It's more, even against Catalonia, explicitly. Because there are documents – there are documents –: « Put a signature here against Catalonia. And that's not what I made up, and that's perfectly documented. We made a proposal, which cost us a lot, of course, internally. I think, after all, that there was a crisis of government over this issue, that we had to fight a lot because the citizens of Catalonia might agree, that we had to fight a lot at the Congress of Deputies to accept, at last, Mr. Alfonso Guerra's revolt, that it was humiliation, and that, unfortunately, we put it to the point and it was won, and, you know what happened, after all? That your signatures were worth more than our votes. And that's what we're not willing to do again. [[Strong applause.]] Don't you? We won't pass, this way – we won't pass. That's the deal, Mr. Albiol! And so, finally, you were talking about being right. Right-wing state, what? The one from Operation Catalunya? The one from the prosecutors who tune in to the government's sound? The one chasing people for their ideas? What brings the president, the vice president and two councillors, two councillors, before the courts for putting the ballot boxes? Is that the right state you present to us? [[Widow's remorse.]] So, let's say no. This state of law doesn't only interest us, but we just want to get over it with a note. [[Some applause.]] Gentlemen of the CUP... I went from Mr Albiol to the CUP; well, we can take a break, huh? [[Rialles.]] Mr Albert Botran, I would like to thank him for his demand for a democratic right, the right to decide, right to self-determination, the right that was ratified by the ballot box and which, therefore, supports us in an unequivocal way so that this Parliament can complete the process towards independence. I said it in a straight line, I say it again: it's our job, it's our job and we won't stray from here. Not just because there's a conviction, but, like you very well said, because there's a warrant. And I am pleased that you have also spoken about exceptionalities, because exceptionalities have also presided over my intervention a week ago, leading us to look for an exceptional solution to the problems of a country that can no longer wait any longer, because I mean that I should wait for the people who pass me worse. In this sense, Mr. Botran, Mr. Salellas, with many of the things that you have said I agree, with others I do not agree; but I do agree with one of the basics, that perhaps I would correct it a little. You, Mr. Salellas, said we challenged the 78th rule, if I don't recall it badly. Plus, I'd say they challenged him themselves, because if he stayed at the table, if he stayed at the table. In fact, today, if I don't recall correctly, the CIS has released its latest edition, and it already places the lack of government as a concern of the Spanish citizens. You know what that means? That the 78th rule was over a long time ago. But it ended alone, it went on to a better life because of inaction, because of contradictions, because of corruption, because of inability to give political answers to political problems and because of disconnection – they did – from the citizenry. Of course, I have said before, in response to another parliamentary group: are we against those who have more pay? We have never been against it; in fact, let's apply it– in fact, let's apply it. Now, I insist, the great fortune there is in this country is said to be the Spanish State. And unfortunately, we don't have a low fiscal pressure, because if we're low, I'd say we could go a long way. But we don't have it, that's because we've come to touch you and because we know that, for the most part, we don't get to the end of the street, because we're dealing with the same reality. These 11,500_million euros I've described, believe me, they can't reach half a point, one point, I don't know what kind of fringe of the autonomic IRPF, no, and we know it. Let us not deceive ourselves: the problem is so big that I have proposals of the same size. Are we discussing the concept? We weren't discussing it, the concept, of course not. It's not just not... it's just that we put it into practice! It's that this country... it's clear that you're right when you say that 70 or 80 percent of people agree that they pay the most, I'd just miss it! Because it means that we've done things right, that we've educated people well. It means that a country that thinks this is a decent country, of course it is. It's a country that doesn't engage in corruption, that doesn't say, "Home, they've hooked the one that's dumb, because they've hooked him, or, "I, if you're in his place, would do the same. No, it's a country that says we have to make a clean country, we have to make a country where there's a well-repercised fiscal effort and those that have more pay. We agree with this principle; but we also agree whether there is a margin or not, and we also agree that the problem we do not have here, the main problem in this country is that it is fiscal. All round, I say. And I say so because I think this is where we have to devote our own efforts. If we want to build a republic, if we want to build an independent state, we need to be clear not how we will manage the wreaths of an autonomous tram, a tax that no longer gives; no, no, how we will manage the resources that make the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans. With two glances: the look on your head, it is to say, as we redistribute it better, and the look on your head, because you also agree– and you have always not spoken to us, and more people in this room– that we do not disengage ourselves from the world, we do not disengage ourselves from Spain, we do not disengage ourselves from the world and the people who pass through it; we are willing to be supportive, we are willing to contribute to the development of those regions, the better, and also from other parts of the world, that need the help of the countries closest to us, as Catalonia can be. Of course we agree, but we have to take a look at them and have the resources to make it possible. The rest, with all honesty, I think it gives us so little room that we don't have to entertain ourselves for too long. Finally, Mr. Turull... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I don't think he's contradicting. [[Rialles.]] Just thank him for his words; I think he's of courtesy, education, and, more importantly, I do it with a lot of taste, because he said... with all the things he said I agree, and, more importantly, I think they help complete the report that Government and parliamentary group..., because this is a government that is raised in a very large parliamentary group, in this Parliament. Yes, insofar as it does not have an absolute majority, but it is a group that more than doubles the deputies of the second group, so it also deserves consideration; that it is an admirable internal management group; that the Government is out of it, and I am out of it; that, moreover, it knows how to do what I call the Spanish State, that it is the management of complexity, and that it supports a government from compromise to the conviction of transcendence and the exceptionality that we have in the front and in a very not only loyal way, but also solidarity. What you say encourages us to continue, encourages us to extend our hand to all groups that can overcome the shame of agreeing with people who might not be able to do other things. I think we should try. This has always been the experience with what I've always seen together for the Yes and I think that together for the Yes is not so, it does politics so and invites the rest of the people to do politics in this way. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.45.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Pause.]] As the president has spoken for sixty-six minutes, we will give eleven minutes for each parliamentary group. In the first place, has the word Inés Arrimadas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.46.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, first of all, I would like to say to you that I believe that a general policy debate requires an individual response to each of the opposition's spokespersons, and I would have liked to have had this debate. But in any case, I'm sure we'll find time to contrast ideas. You talk about my speech being prefabricated. I have many flaws, but I have never read a written speech. I have..., I go around; I mean, I usually adapt it according to what you say. And I sincerely believe that your reply was a little prefabricated, because it has given me conditions that I believe correspond more to the speeches of other opposition groups. Also perhaps his replica, I don't know if it was prefabricated, because it sounds a little ugly, but it was thought, because it has criticized me for telling him that his speech is equally triumphalistic and victimistic, it has thrown it in my face, and it turns out that he has made a replica equally triumphalistic and victimistic. Because that's what you guys do. Yes, yes: they are able to do two things at a time. [[Widow's remorse.]] You are able to vote on one thing in Madrid and present a remedy of unconstitutionality here in Parliament. How will they not be able to make triumphalism and victimism? [[Greetings.]] They're artists of this, of saying one thing there and doing something else here. Triumphalists with the good and victimists with the bad. Triumphalists with good data, as if it were all his work, as if you were the best managers in the world, and victimism with what is bad. It's always everyone else's fault. I have given you..., even the opportunity, almost the plea, to say: please, come out here and acknowledge in something that you have been wrong, something that you have mismanaged. And the truth is that you have missed another opportunity to recognize something, a small apex of self-criticism that makes us think that you, in addition to these abilities of making triumphalist and victimistic speeches, can also do a small part of self-criticism. With regard to the data, you have not beaten any of the data that I have told you; not one, not one. In fact, the few who have been referred to in my speech have given them wrong in order to be able to defeat them. A little has been done, this old tactic of: "I don't remember very well if you told me... Ah! He told me this. No, no, I've told you one thing you won't be able to beat me up, and it's that with you as president there are more embassies and there are more barracks. And that's true. And you've had to go to Montilla's year or I don't know where. [[Greetings.]] It's true. And a lot more information about the education I'm going to give him, because obviously, because we don't have a whole shift, so we don't have time to beat one by one. But not one of the data has been you able to fight back. Then, regarding the tongue, no, no, we don't give up – we don't give up. What is happening is that in a general policy debate we have much more agenda than this. I'm just saying that I'd really love for Catalan children to have the same language skills as President Mas in the future, because when I saw him do a press conference with that release in Catalan, Spanish, English and French, I thought, "That's what I'd like for Catalan children in public school. Well, that trilingual system that Mr. Mas has had and what so good results he has given him is what I would like to implement in the Catalan public schools. I know you disagree, but I honestly believe that studying in three languages is better than studying in one. Then, you seemed to me to understand how it criminalized or ridiculed that we were able to reach agreements with the PP and the PSOE. No, no, I want to claim our ability to reach agreements with different parties, and we're going to continue to demonstrate that. [[applause]] Yeah. Because the new political stage calls for agreement and for consensus and for union, not what you are proposing. And you also know why? Because we always focus the agreements on one thing: not in the distribution of chairs or in covering each other's affairs, as you have done all your life, by agreeing with the PP and with the PSOE in Madrid, not, not, not, but in the content. To me sincerely that you face me that we are able to reach agreements with the PP and with the PSOE, a party that is able to be, until four days ago, agreeing with the PP and that is now with the CUP, so let me be a little surprised, right? [[Greetings.]] Of course, there is one issue that bothers you greatly, and it is that you don't..., you don't want to talk, obviously, about corruption – corruption. Have you said any measures to combat corruption? Fighting corruption. Do not apply the law of transparency, no: fight corruption. What do you think of the ban on pardons to corrupt politicians, who have benefited you and your party? How do you feel about the removal of stumbling blocks? How about we stop choosing the judges of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia? What do you think? I say this because we have been proposing it for a long time, here and in Madrid, and we will continue to propose it and you will have opportunities to demonstrate what you think. Then, the management issue: no self-criticism. He didn't talk about subway line 9, he didn't talk about ATLL, he didn't talk about the Segarra-Garrigues channel. What are you going to do with this? What can Catalans expect? How will they manage it? And then regarding the model, you don't talk about the tax model, you don't talk about the model of active occupation policies. All he does is talk – which is important – about the budget issue. He doesn't talk about how he's going to settle the debt; he's had to go to the tripartit to generate more. Yes, yes, if you did it very badly, but it's just that you're doing it worse! How will you manage this? He doesn't speak, because I honestly believe that they have no model beyond. An example, indeed, that has seemed absolutely paradigmatic to me. You've almost... well, you've been lit up talking about electoral reform that makes voting from abroad difficult, haven't you? , the stolen vote, in the first intervention. Yes, yes, and the problems of voting from abroad. Do you know who I support the 2010 electoral law reform, which put all the impediments? Convergence and Union in the Congress of Deputies, please! [[Greetings.]] It's just that now, really... I think Catalonia deserves another project, because you have no project but independence, and you don't know how to explain it, because you get yourself out of victimism and you don't know how to explain what project you want for Catalonia. I want a serious, sensible and inclusive project for Catalonia. And we – I have told you many times – from the opposition are never going to ask you for impossible things, never, because we know how difficult it can be to govern. But we want a project that raises Catalonia again, not a project that is dedicated to separating Catalonia. We want a project for Catalonia to have a public administration serving citizens, not an ideology or a political party. We want a Catalonia where policies are judged by whether they are good or bad, not by whether you are good and whether you are bad there. We want a project that complies with the European principles of solidarity, union, equality, respect for democratic laws, respect for justice; we do not want a project that breaks those principles and also takes us out of Europe, as you propose. We want a project, for Catalonia dialogue, dialogue with the rest of public administrations, and that generates consensus within Catalonia. We also want a project that will be able to lead the reforms throughout Spain, not that it criticizes what you have been voting for all your life in Madrid. In short, I want to sum it up in one sentence: I want Catalonia to regain the admiration it has always had in the rest of Spain. And I'm going to tell you an anecdote, which now I do think I have time, from when I was little and I saw Catalonia from outside. In the year 92, which I would then be eleven years old, there was a debate about whether we were going to be able to organize some Olympic games, some Olympic games that were held in Barcelona. People doubted: "But will we be able to take on a challenge of these characteristics? Will we be able to stand before the world with this challenge? And I remember that I was at Jerez de la Frontera, but that an older gentleman who was a professor said: "The Catalans will do it. You'll do well. That admiration, that no one has to explain to me, that I have lived it, is the one that I would like to recover for Catalonia. And I am very proud to be a Catalan citizen today too. And I am very proud to have children who will be Catalan someday. Very proud. And they won't have to give up being Spanish or European. And they will not have to embarrass themselves of other identities, as can be Andalusian, as can be that of their grandparents, who are of Castile. That's the project we want for Catalonia. And we so want Catalonia – so much Catalonia – that we are very concerned about what you are doing with it – very much. And that admiration doesn't recover with hordes. That admiration does not recover with campaigns that say that subsidized Spain lives at the cost of productive Catalonia, as you have done. That admiration, that respect that I have lived from the outside and from the inside is the one that we have to recover from among all. And you deny that there is any alternative. You say that the only alternative is to declare independence, a project that does not meet any of these parameters that we think are fundamental. But, this, you are extending it, and again you have returned to the exit box of the referendum and the 9-N. We'll hear a lot of slogans again. But when you are finished with the extensions that you grant yourself, when you can no longer extend the longer, when, as we said today, you have to look in the mirror or even look behind the mirror, there we will have to build an alternative. And I say to you: when you have burned all the ships, when you have broken all the bridges, when you have crossed all the boundaries, that alternative, you will be the only ones who will not be able to lead the. Thank you so much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.47.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. Mr Miquel Iceta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.48.0	Thank you, Madam President. Many honourable President, I hope to be sure, but I wanted to start with two – perhaps the word is very thick, but... – as warnings. One. As you're relatively new to the square, perhaps you don't know that the government is the one who takes criticism of the opposition. And this basic rule should be present, because sometimes it seems like he's angry, "what do I say, these people? No, it's what we're here to do, to control the government, and this is a debate about the government's political orientation. Two. To me, I have the feeling, but I see that I am not alone, because Mrs. Arrimadas also said it..., get used to answering what we gave her, not what we might have said, or what you might have said to her well that we had said for her argumental thread. Because sometimes we can be wrong, and if we can be wrong, the rectification is already my tea; I only said there was the same number of barracks, but no, there are not fifty-three fewer in six years. Congratulations, but we would say it would be good to make some progress. You're right. But I didn't say there was more, no, I said the same. There's no fifty-three minutes, okay. I congratulated him because he says they want to hire two thousand masters. I haven't told him that since we've been in government, we've lost seven thousand workers in the Catalan education sector. But... I mean, it's not like that. And don't get upset if I tell you to let people go, because first, when you say leave, I say everyone. And unfortunately... no, no, and unfortunately, there are hundreds of thousands of people in Catalonia that we have left behind and that have not found the support, the help, the support, the support of the institutions and, also, and in the first place, of the Government of Catalonia. That's it. But it's not that I say it as a criticism, I want to state that the government's main priority should be the social crisis and it seems to me that it is not. And he didn't take it badly. I've seen him a little, I don't know, like you do. Then I thought: "I thought that who had the most problems here today was me, but I see that maybe not. [[Rialles.]] I thought: "What can it be? Shouldn't it be that tomorrow they want to vote on something they know they can't do? And that has to be very negated. Things that went out. Listen to me, when I tell you to put it back, it is true that there has been an economic crisis, it is true that there is a fiscal and economic situation that is detrimental to Catalonia... But, look, the social expenditure per person is frozen at levels 11 years ago, and that's it. It is critical of the tripartite for its expense, but it tends to forget that in very few years we had to start growing the population with almost a million people. And that required a special effort. And that's in the... Now, you want to discuss debt, and deficit, and all that? So, well, let's go to the cartel thing. Debt from the Generality. Intense governments: yes, important growth. Now, as of 2011, so, listen, it's shooting. What do you want me to say? And they made me another one. Average annual increase. entesa governments: 3,528; governments of Convergence, of Junts per el Sí : 6.832. Well, that's it, no, no, I don't say it anymore... Another data that doesn't seem to please you either. Estimated time in number of years to care for people in a situation of dependence: Catalonia, two years, like Canàries. Listen, maybe the xifra, it's not Campalans, huh? , is a state association of directors and managers of social services, the State Observatory for Dependency. Listen, I want you to tell him. Say'm if I'm wrong, and I with a lot of rectification taste. Baix Penedès: You're right, some of the fundamental shortcomings come from the performance of the Government of Spain. Now, there are some who depend on us, for example, the Logis Penedès. The same public enterprise of the Generalitat, CIMALSA, says that it could run between 15 and 20_per_cent, but it is not done and it is done. Well, we have to do it. More things I wanted to say to him. Listen, is it true or is it not true – and surely the counselor does not deceive us – that there are 4,732 places of residence and empty day centers? That's the government's data, don't get upset when we give it to them, if it's theirs! What I would like to say is, another time, because you say: "If you have approved the assumptions... Miri, don't come back to saying that we don't have any assumptions that you didn't want to negotiate with us! The partners failed, and you'll be able to keep them, but that's your thing, not ours. [[Some applause.]] And you're right: « The State, the Government of Spain does not help us, or does not help us very much, or sometimes harms us. And he said to Mr Albiol, "Don't help me any more! Don't help me anymore! All right, now, if that's it, how do we think we change it, what do we think we're doing to have a dynamic of..., I don't say..., finally, of dialog, positive that I can move on in some things? And I would like to say to you, President: with the threat of a unilateral referendum on a fixed date, you will not recover a good relationship with the Government of Spain. I'm just saying, no, no... And, therefore, if so many things depend on a good relationship, try to keep her in pain, so it doesn't seem to me that she's well tuned. Then Mr. Turull gets angry because he says, "Superman said it to him. No, I'll tell you another way: you've set up a program for two years, but the government will last like a lot of months. That's why I look like a superhero, what I want you to say to him, that's it. [[Some applause.]] And I've been worried about one thing, and I'm saying it as a reflection on everyone, and not necessarily projected as a criticism of the government. We have always had a vocation of excellence in Catalonia, and we compare ourselves, and you have done it with pride and certainly with no reference to the schooling of children up to the age of seven and compared with Denmark. I liked it very much. What happens is that the majority of comparisons we feel are with the rest of Spain. And then I'm a little sick, because if our console is to compare us to some that aren't so good, man, we always have to compare ourselves, in this case..., and that's why happiness, for the Danish comparison. There are things that aren't good enough. You talked about the dual PS, that's true. But, for example, to take a very concrete example: it was created a professional center on the car that cost 21_million euros and is practically not active after two years. So there are things to improve. Critics are only a stigma because the government does it better, because if the government does it better, it's not only better for the government, it's all better for the country, which is what actually gathers us here. Then there are some things that worry us about your situation, aren't there? The theme of the emergencies system. Home, there's a risk of collapsing because it asks a lot and it's okay, sometimes, very little. But not just in this one. My culture spokesman criticized me hard because I didn't serve... I didn't talk about culture. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, no... yes, yes, he gave me a file. No, you're not going anywhere now. And the file is a statement from Councillor Santi Vila, and Councillor Vila, in a appearance, asked the Culture Commission for support; he says: "Because it is called upon to help the Councillor to increase the assumptions. Otherwise, there is a risk that the Catalan cultural ecosystem coll·lapsi. I am a little more optimistic than the Councillor because it seems to me that the Catalan cultural ecosystem has a lot of vitality, but certainly there are still things to do, even in those lands as in culture, where there are many points of coincidence. There's been talk of the government's leadership. I don't want to discuss it with you. In fact, you called a housing summit, and a second, and the councilwoman worked a lot, not for her... Now, let's recognize, for example, that it is a summit that was suggested to her by the gatherings. We have often been under the impression that gatherings, such as starting the majority of people's problems in the first line, often feel helpless, and that is why they say to the Generality: "Please act. We ask him to anticipate things. For example, in industrial policy, we are certainly now a little better than a few months ago. But we must also recognise that the initiative has been taken by people who have come to demand this leadership from the Generality and its President. Social policies, too. We were very pleased with the Ple of the poor, because perhaps the presence of entities forced us to focus on the subject; we could not do before their great speeches, because they know well the way they give it. So many things that we do, and not just the government, parliamentary groups too, are others that encourage us to do. Then, you... other fears. Well, the issue of parity in government; we're still with a deficit of women like the other branches of the Generality. And I think it's worth it if we tell each other. In his case because he names them, and the others because we want to help him on this path. And I end up with a theme that someone will say: "Ui! And why are you keeping this? What is this embolism? But, as you have said, I like that the debates are about the issues that are raised... about who should rule, or not, Spain. Miri, the fault was very black and nobody wanted it. This is a saying that explains a lot of things in politics and life. Actually, we may not have done everything we can to change government, but, and the others? And you? What about the ones over there? ; all of us trapped to put in impossible conditions, and finally, maybe, we'll find all the folds with the worst of the solutions. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.49.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. Next, has the words of Mr. Albano Fachin, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.50.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, I want to thank the President for all the answers; I mean, it was interesting. That's why he reminded me of this question from the parliamentary group and the president, isn't it? The good cop and the bad cop. Today Turull is the bad cop, he's usually the bad cop. I don't know anything about politics and sanitation in Turull. If you want to talk about politics and sanitation. I don't... well, today was a day to talk about other things, but what? Do we need to talk about their personal and concrete participation in order to store Xavier Crespo's report on the disappearance of 2,4_million euros? If you want to talk about public health politics, we talk about public health politics, and if we don't have time to continue the challenge here – I take the agenda – to be one hour you and I talking about sanitation, with documents at hand, and we'll see what's more criminal. Aah! Oh, my God, I'm so sorry. , and if you want to know and talk about privatizations, concerts, public and private, I recommend that it is documents, because I need to talk seriously about the health issue. And so, I don't know, you can read the documents on privatization and commercialization of Public Health of the Research Group in Inequalities, of Pompeu Fabra University, which perfectly describes what mechanisms have been put in place to market Catalan sanitation, and its party has a lot to say in all this – or its exparte, or I don't know anymore. About education, public education. It's true, I can come here and say it to Laos, and surely in the report it's clear that it doesn't work all wrong, that it's all falling apart. I agree. But there are things that work very badly. You've come here to tell them to work well and I've come here to tell them to work badly – that's something, isn't it? But it's true that we could go a little further there and say, "Listen to me, in terms of being here messing with parliamentary groups and so on, we could let the same educational community, the same teachers, the students, who debate, with time, beyond this politics, to say it in a way. And you said to him in your speech today: "No, we have implemented a process of participation. Clearly, this process of participation – yesterday I was looking at it – seems to me to be a successor of the ILP who fell together with the People's Party. Since we believe as long as people have to decide their future, we could have let the same educational community solve it and debate it; the PP and Convergence have agreed to say no, but we do have a system of participation. He would have been good – he would have been good – who would have let the people express themselves and debate, who I think... For what he does to pensions, I totally agree: the People's Party is a threat to pensions, Catalans and all state pensioners. But it is also true that all experts say that one of the main problems the pension system has is the enormous precariousness of those who are working and that, therefore, the precariousness makes it impossible for them to provide enough to guarantee a pension system. So, this precariousness, among other things, sees the fact that it was done in its moment a labor reform that, another time, did the People's Party with the Convergence and Union contest. I agree, don't I? That doesn't have to embarrass us with other things, but, well, the story is what it is. You say we have a problem in Catalonia, that we don't have any tools to do according to what. I'm very worried when you're talking so much to the TTIP leugera, so, last time, right? The suspension..., we are talking about a question that speaks of the suspension of democracy, of the suspension of sovereignty, that if the TTIP is not approved, but the CETA, we could already go shutting this Parliament down tomorrow, because this Parliament would not serve anything else. That's very, very, very worrying. And for this question of the sobrieties and the... of course, I also remember when Convergence and Union voted against making a reference about the TTIP, oysters! I can't forget, this is historical memory. And, look – and I'll give you an invitation, if you like – I, for example, went to a demonstration on September 11th where I don't share many things, but share some other things, and I went there, and you also went there. So, miri, on October 15th there is a demonstration to defend the sovereignty, also, of the people of Catalonia, against the TTIP and CETA. I don't know if he'll come... well, let him know; let him know that there's this demonstration on the street. I'm done, 'cause I'm out of time. The 78th Regime. You say: "The 78th rule is ending all alone. No, no: the 78's rule began to fall when a lot of people went out, for example, to the Plaza Catalunya, while Mr. Felipe Puig defended the 78's rule at fucking times. The 78's rule is not alone; the 78's rule also began to fall when people surrounded this Parliament while Convergence and the People's Party ruled folds and approved folds. Therefore, the 78's rule is not alone. And, certainly, and speaking of Parliament, today, the European Court of Human Rights, after the Government of the Generality, a part of this Parliament and Clean Hands, therefore, works because there are convictions for the subject of Parliament, today, the European Court of Human Rights has put all this process into question. Therefore, when we did this reflection before we said: "We are together, we build together, we think what things are that unite us..., all that I have said to him are some things in which, if we debate them deeply and do not look for the data that is best for each one, I think we can build something; if not, no. I finish leaving the Angels... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.51.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fachin. Mrs. Martinez, you have four minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.52.0	Yeah. To thank him for his answer, but to tell him that I know it is hard for him to forget that part of my intervention was for the women. Miri, after analyzing the crisis of the year 29, the effects of the crisis of the year 29, saw that the effects of the crisis had, naturally, class consequences, class biax, and genera biax, and that the women had a great..., they were one of the great sufferers and payers of the effects of the crisis. And when I speak, in addition, of the women I am talking about the creatures that normally are with the women; at the point that, for example, we can see the poor child, but, from the point of view of material need, it is much bigger for the women, because the women first will be left without food that they will not let their children win. Therefore, it seems to me that a word from the President, to Parliament, facing these questions, is to say, in view of having seen that the crisis, to Catalonia that we want, not..., what I have said above all is: it is not to be paid more unequally, especially taking into account this, gender inequality and class inequality. And I'll tell you one thing: not everything can..., or not everything is money; for example, there are regulations. And you have at your side a person who has made the doctoral thesis on regulatory policies, and there are many possibilities to make regulatory policies that minimize the class and generative effects of public policies in difficult times. To finish, look, I don't want to scare anyone, but I read everybody, and so I also read Ecologists in Action and I read, so, the one who publishes the associations of the way, and, of course, takes a doubt of me. For example, I heard Mr. Piqué say: "No, it doesn't happen; let's pull things into Flix's pantage, because, like they're tight and well sealed and I don't know what, it'll take a thousand years..., that this, then, has repercussions. The global change, the global climate change is absolutely, in short, inexcusable, no one can deny it. And if I'm wrong... and I want to listen to everyone and read everybody, and I don't want to scare anyone, but what I really want is that if I'm wrong, what I'd prefer is to always be wrong in favor of the weakest. Therefore, between the Molins López-Rodó family and the people who are in the Vein Associations, I assure you that I personally will listen much more dearly and much more attentively to the people of the Vein Associations and the people of Ecologists in Action. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.53.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martinez. Next, the words of Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.54.0	Yes; thank you very much. Mr. President, first of all, a previa. Miri, when you refer that on the part of the Government of Spain there is maltreatment in Catalonia, I know that you do not refer or think about the women you ill-treat; when you refer that the Government of Spain has a situation of paralysis, you or your government partners, I know that you do not refer to the people who suffer from this disease. Therefore, I would ask you that when we make certain similes do not play – do not play – with the problems of the people. Just as I don't think that you, or your government, when doing this kind of similes think about people who suffer from the problem, I ask you that when I have made a reference to a collection to make a simile, that I don't relate it either. And leave it here. You said – you said – that my sources of information, Mr President, did not know whether they were from the CNI or that if they were misinformed, when we talked about their meetings, their supposed meetings, the diluns, in their office, with the president..., with the president But, no? And that if, so, well, the CNI, that was misinformed and so on. Listen, I don't put it there or pass it; I tell him that here came a news saying: « Puigdemont tries to take away the weekly guardianship of Arthur Mas. I say: "Monday morning Artur Mas comes to the House of the Canonges, official dependence of Puigdemont, dispatches and monitors. Listen, we don't pose, we don't betray. I say to him from where we have drawn the information, which seems – which seems – that the President But, therefore, does a follow-up of his work. Look, I don't know if that's true or not, I don't think the communication media have any reason to fool, but I do say one thing: there's an evidence, and it's that President But the counter-programme, because you, some days ago, made a conference in Madrid and, at the end of the day, there was President But, in Madrid, let's see if you have to tell him anything to correct what you said previously, right? This is a reality, and this is not subject, Mr Puigdemont, it's the same. Other questions. You mean... I'd like to make three or four references to fears that seem to me to be important enough. You and, especially, your parliamentary spokesman, Mr. Turull, have said that the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, textually, "is a scam. So, well, I would say to you, and especially to Mr Junqueras, that he is not allowed to cheat, that if you consider that the Government of Spain is scamming you, that if you consider that with these 60,000_million euros that the Government of Spain has left you are scamming you, what you have to do is not go back to seeing and asking for money from the scammer, because then, perhaps, we would be provoking. And, then, Mr. Junqueras, it seems that in your group..., these requests that you make, among other questions, to pass, therefore, the loans that have been pending..., that you can finance the State, the loans that you like to pass them to long, man, on behalf of the Government of Spain, do not do it, that the banks do it, that they do it the entities financed, because the Government of Spain is truncating them, as Mr. Turull said. So, I'd ask you for a little coherence and a... you don't ask for recognition anymore, but a little coherence. And, man, let's see... there's an objective reality, and it's that, as it is now, the only ones who lend money to the Government of Catalonia... is the Government of Spain. And thanks to the Government of Spain, in the later years, 1,800_million euros in interest, and thanks to the Government of Spain, in the later year, interest to pay is zero. And that's an objective data that can't be discussed. From here, therefore, point out, for example, on the issue of financing... On the issue of financing, you said that they have deceived us; Mr Puigdemont, that the Government of Spain has deceived us; that they do not want to return to it; that there have been twenty-three proposals that have not been complemented by investments... Miri, here, in your parliamentary office, Mr President, I will tell you one thing, to see if you accept my compromise. As you and I, and most likely, follow in a table and set aside the twenty-three who brought the president but see the degree of compliment. And we do it publicly. And if it's like you say, that the government of Spain has not made a king, I, on behalf of the People's Party, will apologize. Now, if the compliment level is high enough, who will apologize will be you. I am at your disposal, on behalf of the People's Party; are you at your disposal? Public meeting and disassembly point by point, both of us, disassembly point by point, see if it's able to pick up the glove, and you'll see who's lying and who's not. Many references have also been made to topics related to teaching at the length of the debate. Here I want to tell you that I've seen a lot of self-contribution from you, from the government. Home, there are things that are fine, unquestionably. But, look, there's a reality: if the year 2009 or the year 2010 were one thousand and fifty barracks and now there are one thousand and two thousand... Well, the comparison of the fan with 2009. The reality is that last year there was a thousand-sixty-sixty, huh? Let's see: if the comparison of the fan, as I say, with the year 2010, is reduced, huh? But there's a reality, and there's a lot of kids, a lot of students who started studying in barracks and finished their training cycle in barracks. And that's a reality. I can talk about, for example, the Agnes School of Sitges, the Les Vinyes School of Cubelles, or the Montigalà School of Badalona; children who start the cycle in barracks and finish in barracks. It means that something has not been done and is not prioritising what we consider important. Then, they assumed a lot too..., and made reference to the quality level of teaching in Catalonia. We're not going to put it in question, are we? We won't put it in question and, as higher as it is, much better. But there are a couple of questions that surprise us. You are looking for comparative elements, but on the contrary, you are unable to accept that there may be external assessments in Catalonia that compare the level of teaching in Catalonia with the level of teaching in the rest of the State. You are not willing to do this type of tests, you are reluctant to this type of tests that allow you to compare levels between Catalan students and students from the rest of Spain. And, listen, there's a reality that's objective, that's not interpretable, and it's that the level of reversal – not the quality level, but the level of reversal, that's objectively measured – of Catalonia is the same as that of Laos or Guatemala. And I've told you what you've been referring to here a number of times, that's the truth. And the rest of Spain the level of investment in education, in teaching, is higher than that of Catalonia, and Catalonia is at the level of Laos or at the level of Guatemala. And this is an objective fact that it is not of the People's Party, that has been made public today through different means of communication and that it is of a foundation that has important credibility. I would also like to refer to some aspects such as dependency. On the subject of dependence, it is a scandal that we must listen to, fully replete, that the Government of Spain does not complete with the dependents of Catalonia, that it does not complete with the payments of dependence. You're simply lying. The year 2014, which is the last of what we have data, the state's contribution to dependence in Catalonia is 55,6_per_cent [[applause]] , 2013 is 57,1_per_cent and year 2012, 50,5. Because you know perfectly well, Mr Puigdemont, that dependence is financial for two ways: it is finance, for one side, by direct transfer via Imserso, and another way is the way of the system of financing. And when you add these two parties, which are final – which are final – to dependency, it turns out, as I say, that contributions are about 50_per_cent. So, they're asking for a little rigor. I'm sure, Mr. Puigdemont, that you have arguments that are real, and you don't need to go looking for data that doesn't fit reality; I'm absolutely convinced that's it. Therefore, use data that are indeed. That, of course, these data are endorsed by the Court of Auditors; it is not that I am saying it, but that I am getting the same Court of Auditors, as I said. And then one last question: ugly reference to pensions. In 2015, if Catalonia had been an independent state, there would have been a deficit in pensions of €5,000_million. And you know perfectly well, they know that with an independent Catalonia it's impossible to pay pensions. And the reality is that with the People's Party government pensions have gone up a little, but they have gone up, and if there is an independent Catalonia, it would not be possible to pay pensions. Why? Because there would be no money, there would be no €5,000_million to be able to make it to the front, so that we could get to the point of balance. Therefore, I would ask you a little more rigorously, asking you to focus your efforts on trying to solve the real problems of Catalans, and, above all – and above all – not to give the picture to reality. With closed positions, with radical positions, and refusing, Mr Puigdemont, to open a door, he is denying the present and the future in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.55.0	Thank you, Mr. García Albiol. The words of Mr. Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.56.0	Well, good afternoon. Before we answer the president's considerations, we'll make two promises. One goes for the Interior, I believe that in thanking that the Interior Advisor has been practically throughout the session and no one has practically made reference to any interior theme; therefore, we do that. [[relays]] We had the guts to touch one of them. And then another one in international affairs. And then we'll get to the bottom of it. In the matter of interior, we cannot let it pass that today is 5 October and that today three years ago the assassination of Juan Andrés Benítez [[applause]] by eight agents of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, in a report that is established in a feeling that it is spreading. I believe that none of the 135 we are here can, in any way, pose themselves - to read them, to read them, or to try to reconstruct the image of that unconscious man with twenty-seven bodily injuries, the fruit of punches, small shots, knee shots, handcuffed with paws at the scene..., well, a situation not only regrettable, but absolutely criminal, that at the time of today we have to say that, as the penalty that they were imposed on them has not been pleased, that 150,000 euros of civil responsibility has paid them the department or the insurer of the department, therefore, we have heard at the time that there was a situation of total impunity, and that we have been in charge of an expedition. Last week we learned – following an argument, we think, that what it does is give in to the pressure of the police unions – that it has decided, the department, not to initiate any type of dispatch to these eight agents. We think that, for the good name of the body – for the good name of the body – it is necessary to expel these eight rotten orchards from the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, these eight murderers, according to the judicial resolution. That said, according to the question: this Parliament, when we formed the Intergroup for Palestine – and it is not Mr Pedret, who is not responsible – on the date of constitution we held as the only point of the order of the day the reception of a flotilla of women from the Dones Rumb initiative in Gaza, which reproduced the intention of flotilla to arrive..., to break the flagrant blockade, violator of the fundamental rights on the part of the State of Israel, and today we have to say that only a few hours ago, therefore, another time the State of Israel has returned to avoid the arrival of this flotilla of women, in this case in the Gaza Strip area. And, therefore, we would ask the Government that in exercising its external functions, so do what we have convinced to prove that this Parliament and that this Government are on the side of human rights and are against systemic human rights violations by the State of Israel. And he says that... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.57.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.58.0	That said, three very quick questions, now yes, answering the president. In the first place, about the 78th Regime and retake the thread of the company Dante Fachin, right? I wouldn't be able to say that the 78_regime fell or stayed at no one's say. The sooner I think it's the other way around, the sooner we've got who's gonna defend the bailiff of the 78th Regime: they're PP, PSC, and Citizens, after what happened this week. And, therefore, I wouldn't need the ability that the 78th Regime still holds, so I don't know what happens to us like it happened in the '70s, do I? When there was that he imagined that because Franco had died in bed, yes, the rule had already ended, right? And then it turned out that this rule still had a lot of rope. Second place, about the prosecution. We will not take up a debate between the fiscal deficit or the modification of taxation. So, we're buying the whole tax deficit speech, and we agree that the great fortune we're going to have to record is the Spanish State. But this is a debate. And the other is if in a situation of economic crisis, where a sector of this country's population is going through so badly, we are not forced to debate and open the melodies of the tax debate. Because we have such important and exceptional social needs that we seem to be, that we have to assess if it is not necessary that who else has paid more, precisely. 'Cause you say who else has paid more, don't you? And we don't agree with that at all. From the start, because in the current model, for example in the IRPF trams, we are clear that on low and medium trams, therefore, there is a very high tax pressure, which is being borne, which is absolutely at the maximum, and that the people of the low and medium trams, which are basically employed people, fill in on time with the tax pressure; but this does not happen on the upper tram. Because on the high tram – which we ask for more pressure, because legally we can still put much more pressure on it – we find that it is not true who has more pay. Because we're clear who has the most pay, but who has the most escape and the most disappointment. And who else doesn't pay, who else generates tax engineering structures to circumvent the tax payment in a fairly clear and majority way, precisely because he has the resources to build the tax engineering that allows him to circumvent the tax payment. Therefore, we complete; if we agree with the maximum, we complete it: who else has more pay and more contribute, precisely in a scheme of redistribution of wealth, to assume the burdens that at this time, temporarily, will assume and that for us, therefore, they go beyond the debate on the fiscal deficit, which we do not discuss, because we buy and share it from the first moment. And beyond, therefore, the tax debate, beyond the 2016 assumptions and whether they are serious, let's say, or not the most social assumptions of history – that we have already said that this debate does not want to analyze –, it is true that you as a government have acted as a government, and you have spent money on some things, yes and no; it is logical, isn't it? And, therefore, when you, for example, continue to pay a contract of 21 million annually to the holders of the motorcycle circuit, the great prize of motorcycles and the great prize of cars of the Circuit de Montmeló, you are making a determined policy, and you are deciding to invest these moneys, which could be invested more beyond these two concrete week-ends... – because it is certain that this generates an economic impact on the territory, but two very concrete week-ends – more than these two week-ends and to insist now on the processing of a PDU to generate a thematic park in the area and, therefore, to reproduce an economic model in the Barcelona World line than we do not share, I would be convinced that these 21 million years of investment in 2009 will result in an annual deficit. And we, for example, are proposing it – in a question that has not come out in today's debate and that concerns us – to put an end to academic exile. We are aware that in this country there is a flight of investigators, there is a flight of talent. The dice are who they are. From the beginning of the crisis, from 2008 until now, we have lost half of the investigators between twenty-five and thirty-four years of the investigators between thirty and forty years. And, therefore, there is a flight of talent, and we propose to make policies active in this sense. Why not? We want these 21_million euros to pay for petrol and cars in Montmeló Park, we want them, precisely, to fix talent in the territory and to avoid the flight of all these people and all that talent. In any case, we wanted to finish our position in the general policy debate... I think we have tried to demonstrate a to construct, a to purpose and a to, somehow, try to look at what is possible a point of finding with the Government in the execution of public policies. And in a way, it's only up to us to quote our partner David Fernández when he once gave this forum so many times that they have their hands cut off by the CUP in everything that is developing the process, building a country and building a public country and that they continue to have a punch closed in everything that is detailed, privatized and serve the powerful. This is the position of the CUP. It was the position of the CUP with David Fernández and continues to feel the position of the CUP today. So, you know, but it's thick and it's stuck. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.59.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. Next, the words of Mr. Jordi Turull, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.60.0	Yes, thank you very much. Anyway, for a few things that have been said, to finish this debate. But I started it one way and I'm gonna finish it another way. And it's that everyone here will have exposed their..., everyone will have been able to make their replies, with more or less engineering or with more or less strength, but above all..., I think it now sees the substantial part, which is the issue of resolutions. And you know that at least the will on the part of Juntes per el Yes will be that except for all those referring to the process, that either you agree or disagree..., the rest, from the conjunction of the spheres, are written, because that you know that it is important, with the will that you can find the most support possible, in the line that is not as important, as I said, that presents it only what is presented. And we would like and invite the rest of the groups..., we know that there are fears that we can't agree, but that there can be a lot of coincidences that there can be, and we would ask that, as I'm sure the proposals are long, they should be written thinking how many groups can get it to vote, which is more than saying, "Let's do it this way, that they can't get it to vote. And that's what we want to stay with. I'll expect you to come back to Mrs. Arrimadas, who had to go out, not to be... but, anyway, if it seems to you, Mr. Dante Fachin, I'll tell you that you came here with... First, you've gone back to lying. He said I did not know what. Know that in this defamation the recidivism begins to be a bit difficult. I would ask you that when you make statements of salvation you do so from knowledge of cause and not launching the fan and defaming and lying to the conscience. This has already happened to you once. I would ask you not to repeat yourself in this matter. I... when we talk about privatization, we talk about the difference there is with a concession and we talk about the difference there is with a concert. All the way, I'm still inviting him to go first to see Mrs. Colau, who will explain it to him like everything you say is a sin she does there. Clearly, they say: "It's different. There is no privatisation, there must be a concession. But let's leave this and talk about it when you want to. [[You want some money.]] We'll talk about it when we're ready. But, listen, you've made a claim from 15-M, from Plaza Catalunya and 15-M, and from all that, and that 78 ended from the fact that it all appeared there from 15-M. What I am surprised at is that afterwards, as it refers to the process that Catalonia saw, they make a speech that here revolution has to be done with the permission of the competent authority. He's the one who doesn't call me. It is to say that you, with the subject of the process that Catalonia sees, are not a more distressed hair, which is the part that I contradict. And the other day I told Mr. Rabell that I don't understand the speech you're making, and I don't understand how you've been through 15-M, in these fears, to stand next to those who don't want to change absolutely king, because there'll be a moment, and you know, you'll have to decide. Mr. Iceta has made reference to the debt. Home! Mr. Iceta, you cheated. I know. You've cheated, because, of course, the debt of these last few years clearly went up, because the debt has nerve ball effects, and so here the debt that went up, because more and more here you have to add the surface rights, the German method... And you didn't make a snowball. You guys made a flood. You failed him. Remember that deity you signed that... that we weren't there, you and I weren't there? But it's not that they're not in this Parliament, no, no. It is they who create evil – they create evil. You 2109 don't know if it's gonna be there. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Jo, my life expectancy, for a long time after the health system... I don't know. But you came to sign debt agreements until the year 2109. So, listen, don't come and make this trap about the debt. And besides there's one other thing. Fixed 'on the contradiction: the State's focus is each time more important and the needs each time are more. You're asking us to do more every time. Somehow, we have to, but we try to reduce the debt. But you know – you know – that your management of it in front of the Generalitat was to leave a Generalitat in failure. You know that, Mr. Iceta. She handled it this way. You know that – you know that – and that's why we had to put a lot of order, and one way is to reconvert the issue of the debt. Mr. Albiol..., and your butllet of the dilluns. If you ever find a photocopy at home, at your desk, talking about Spiderman, you don't believe it. I mean, don't come here with a butlet that talks about Spiderman and make an inquiry to the Interior Counselor. I mean, I think it's the ridiculous one. What's going on is that you come up with this song that there's some news that says the president's meeting the dills with who... No, "I don't know who, no. With President Mas – with President Mas. I'm sorry, I'm not the one who disrespects President Mas. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, but I'm saying... if you... your information is these, then everything you said after that doesn't matter anymore or that we're discussing it. Why did you go to the FLA... did the FLA pay interest or not pay interest? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They paid, of course, because we paid. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah! Now, isn't it? Ah! But what about the other years? The 1,900_million what? Did they pay themselves? Why tell people they didn't pay interest? Nine-hundred-million. Do you know what we could do with 1,900_million? Don't fool the people. What happens is that you treat it one way, let's just say, to trick people. But I told you the other day, we're in a very different mindset. And that's why, when you say we're going to rock... we don't go. I said it the other day: you went about 1812, we go to Europe in the 21st century; we are the ones who want to gather refugees, you are the ones who want to invade Perejil; we are the ones who give subsidies to what you say about the stellate, which is a symbol of citizenship, democracy and freedom, because that is what they defend, you are the ones who give subsidies to the Francisco Franco Foundation. It's the big difference. We're absolutely in my differences. And all of this I didn't hear you criticizing him. And, really, I don't think so much of us – I don't think so much of us – because what you should do, the PP of Catalonia, after what the State has done, is try to confuse it with the landscape, in fact. Why every time, every council of ministers... how can you accuse the government of not acting if you neither do nor let it happen? If a law... lasts longer than you triage to bring her to court! How do you want them to act? As the bar says: "How many laws have you approved? If everything you're dealing with here is brought to the Constitutional because you're suspenseful? But how do they have the bar to say that? Home! You don't do or let it happen, and you still come here with demands. Home! I'd ask you to have a little consideration, because before the president said so, people aren't wrinkles. People aren't wrinkles and people know exactly what they do. And then, Mrs. Arrimadas, don't say: "We want an inclusive project. I said it the other day: if you were born just the opposite! You were born to divide the children in the school, you went to the courts to try to separate the children in the school; you, including, had to force the People's Party, in this competition to see who generates a problem there..., generate a problem including..., paying $6,000 to the parents because they generate, then, a piece of shit with this topic when there isn't. Don't tell us you want an inclusive country. Because you are part, Mrs. Arrimadas, of this great success that is this country, of this « Catalunya, a people's only, which is what brought together very different political forces. I say one thing: you explained your personal experience, when it came from Jerez. And we're glad that you've made the choice for this country to be yours. Now I'll give you an example, ask you one thing. You came to live here from Jerez, and I'm sure that this has led, as it is logical, to friends, acquaintances, parents who came here to visit her. How many have returned to Jerez said that Catalonia had problems with language? How many? How many? Captain. So why did they explain to Spain that here one has to « break his face to speak castle? Why do they do that? You said we're good at doing two things now. And it's true. A lot of things now, it's iron cover. But you are able to say many different things at once. Here and out of Catalunya. If you want an inclusive society, stop generating a problem where there is no problem. President, in the end, we'll make that petition that you've made to us. I insist on how I have started this line: we will look at all your proposals not thinking about who is presenting them, but on the content of these proposals, and we would ask you to do the same. Because, in the end, I believe that the citizens, apart from whether they have been more able in the oratory or less able in the oratory, what they hope of the 135 Members, are actions and are done to the service that they can live better. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-05-2301.61.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Turull. The debate is over, and as a compliment to Rule 152, I would remind you that the processing of subsequent motions for resolutions to this debate will be the next. The deadline for submitting proposals will be today, roughly, two-quarters of an eight. The communications to the parliamentary groups on the Bureau's proposals will be two-quarters new. The deadline for submission of compromise proposals will be one in the morning to one in the middle. I remind you that, as it was agreed at the Board of Spokesmen, this is an improbable term. The communication to the parliamentary groups of the proposals admitted to the Bureau will be made to two-quarters of two. And the session, by debate and voting on the motions for resolutions, will resume tomorrow, you said, from four o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you very much. I think it's been a very profitable session. They suspect the session.
