ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. [[Asking the Government about social addictions]] [[300-00070/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on social addictions presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.2.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Counselor, today we bring you a problem that is already being alerted from different sectors for its harmful consequences, but that seems to have not been given enough attention since the administration. We live in the information society, a society with great changes, which happen at a speed of vertigo and to which we do not know how to adapt equally quickly. Obviously, information and communication technologies and what has come to be called the digital age has much to do with these changes; it was digital that has its own generation, millennials or also called "digital natives, young people born from the 1990s and who from the zero minute of life have been in contact with computers, mobile phones, etc. These technologies have brought us great benefits, for example, by facilitating new channels of communication, by making all kinds of information available to us, or by allowing greater autonomy and independence, especially for older persons or persons with disabilities. And despite the benefits of these new technologies, they have also brought with them new pathologies, which mainly affect this generation I was talking about, because they are the ones that use them most. According to data from the INE and the Idescat, the use of the Internet is a majority practice for children under 10 to 15 years of age, with a 92.3_per_cent in boys and a 91.6 in girls. And in addition, the 16 to 24 year olds are the ones who use the Internet most, 99.2 for men and 97.5 for women. Young people who live stuck to the computer or who consult their mobile continuously, despite not having received any new messages or calls. Young people who don't leave their room or eat, who don't relate to their families or other friends, except virtual ones. This phenomenon has reached its highest expression in Japan. There, this syndrome of social isolation is known as hikikomori. Until recently it was thought that this syndrome was typical of Japanese culture, but a study prepared by the Institute of Neuropsychiatry and Addictions of the Hospital del Mar, from here in Barcelona, has ended this belief, showing the existence and the increasing growth of these cases in Spain. Well, specialists conclude that these behaviors can have a very negative impact on young people, with consequences not only in the future, but also immediate. Compulsive behaviors, which vary the life patterns of minors and adolescents, such as not sleeping at night in order to be able to be more connected hours, or having to lie at home and at school, being able to suffer disorders, where anxiety, irritability and aggressiveness predominate, in some cases. Compulsive conducts that are favored by social networks and the ease of access to them and favored, also, by the lack of information and lack of prevention about the risks that these new pathologies entail. We are talking about genuine social addictions that, although not linked to substance use, have the same characteristics as addictions to drugs or alcohol. Tolerance, withdrawal syndrome, excessive occupation of time, spending of money, loss of social relations and absence of daily activities. According to a study carried out by FAD, 85_per_cent of young people are dependent on mobile, social media and instant messaging. And according to a study on pathological behaviors on the Internet, carried out by the NGO Protégeles, which collaborates in programmes of the European Commission, 21.3_per_cent of young people is at risk of becoming addicted to new technologies, being the average age of beginning twelve years. The catalogue of these new social diseases is extensive and its consequences are even more so. Addiction to the internet and mobile phone leads to behaviors such as, for example, cyberradiation to sex and cyberrelationships. A 30_per_cent of minors confess to having virtual contacts with people who do not know, without being aware, in many cases, of the dangers they face. The lack of information makes them see this way of relating is as normal, even though they don't know who is on the other side of the screen. Also cyberbullying among equals, where stalker and victim are usually the same age or similar, hence the name. What is it? For they are repeated behaviors, which can go from insults, humiliations, extortion, false profiles in networks with vehicular contents, etc.. And also mental disorders such as FOMO, fear of losing something, or nomophobia, fear of leaving the mobile, which generates them authentic pictures of anxiety. The person is distressed by the absence of the mobile, either because of forgetfulness, loss or theft, or because of the impossibility of connecting to the internet, feeling excluded from the group. These disorders not only involve anxiety, as we have said, but also lack of attention, disorders of conduct, social isolation, abandonment of studies, violence and, in the most serious cases, depression; depression which, moreover, is particularly worrying in the case of young people. Some studies conclude that among 15, 20_per_cent of adolescents have suicidal ideation accompanied by feelings of hopelessness and defencelessness, suicide being the first cause of death among young people aged 15 to 24 years. This fact, therefore, highlights the importance of interventions to prevent and treat these new diseases, whose diagnosis is still complicated by being new. And within these new pathologies, related to ICTs, we want to highlight, above all, the game and the online bets for the serious consequences that they are causing, especially in a group as vulnerable as young people are for their own characteristics. What begins at first as a mere fun can end up becoming a real suffering for the sick and their families. According to statements in the media, the president of the Associació Catalana d'Addiccions Socials, Acencas, a 20_per_cent of the applications for gambling addiction that arrive have as their profile users under thirty_y_five years of age and with addiction to gambling over the internet, and also shows that there are more and more parents of minors approaching asking for help. Well, the modalities of the online game are wide, being able to find poker tournaments, poker cash, bingo, blackjack, roulette or sports betting of all kinds. And what's worse, all these games are available every day of the year, the twenty-four_hours of the day. That is, young people can play all day, without any kind of social control. What causes this? Well, this makes the time to develop ludopathy less than in the case of face-to-face play. In the face-to-face game it takes five to six years for this to end up being ludopathy, and yet in the online game it is enough for one or two years. And in the meantime, what does the Administration do? Counsel, what control measures are being taken to protect minors? The ease with which they can access the online game is stunning. Just register with an adult's DNI to access all this online gambling and betting content. In addition, to this dangerous cocktail formed by the lack of information about the harmful effects of the game and the total absence of access control, the effects of advertising must also be added. Let us remember that advertising for face-to-face play is prohibited; however, for online play it is allowed, advertising in which often appear personalities like, for example, elite sportsmen, figures to be imitated by the smaller ones, who receive the idea that playing is like a sport. Ads in which it seems that by betting one will earn a fortune without having to strive, marketing campaigns that are increasingly aggressive and that have a great impact on minors. What policies are your department implementing in this regard, Consellera Bassa? What preventive action is being taken to protect adolescents and that gambling advertising does not unduly influence them? We believe that it is essential to introduce courses for children and young people in schools themselves, so that they learn to make good use of and protect themselves from the risk of falling into an addiction to social networks, online gambling, and also to demystify such games, so that they do not see it as a sport or something with which to earn easy money. It is essential that minors understand that it is more than you can lose, contrary to the general belief that teenagers have about gambling as a way to make money quickly and easily. We also need more research resources. There are very few data that we have for being very new diseases and whose diagnosis is complicated, but understanding the development of pathology and its prevalence rates will help us, too, to be able to design a better treatment. In short, she advises, we need more resources, we need to invest more in the prevention and detection of these new pathologies resulting from the use of ICTs that affect, above all, young people at a stage that is crucial to their lives. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.3.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Social Afers and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.4.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, honourable Member, the truth is that we totally share everything that you have said, and everything that you have said because it is a referent and it is the generic that is going through everything, it is not a subject of your parliamentary group or of this Parliament's parliamentary group, but it is a social issue, it is a general issue and it is a subject that goes further, as you very well explained. In fact, from the Health Department, the health professionals, there is no clear and unanimous opinion as to whether it is dependence, whether it is abuse or addiction, because it costs a lot to segregate one of the three parts, and what we do need to take into account is that one_of_each_four people has behavioral disorders problems and very often is related to themes of what we say, or dependence or abuse or new addictions, which, as you very well have said, are not only substantiation, but also social addictions. In fact, they are dependence disorders linked to any human activity, considered in principle as an activity of the oci, that, therefore, we do not give it much importance, or a communication activity, with the whole issue of the networks, and that development is not properly converted into what we say before, it could be an addiction. It is a question, therefore, not of the fact itself, but of the intensity or the loss of control over these networks or the themes that there is. It is a great difficulty in detection, because the socio-addiction only starts at the first stages, it is not easily detected and therefore it can get worse. We all know that the new technologies of information and communication, what they have pretended and what they claim to be empowering communication, education and information. But when they affect the will to control, when they affect to facilitate an addictive behavior, it is when we have to measure. There are two variables that need to be taken into account: the time devoted to these addictions, and the motius of the use. And these are the two variables that usually work from the world of salvation, but also from the world of prevention. The types of addictions that we have controlled or discovered are the addiction to the mobile, which is on the increase, especially in adolescents; the addiction to the Internet, as well as to a lot more often than not, of the loneliness and the confusion of the real reality with a virtual reality that they want better – a vehicle that goes out into reality and, therefore, fills emotional and psychological needs; the addiction to the videogames, which you have explained very well, that, to what extent these videogames do not influence the violence or violence ducts in young people, and this is the other point that we need to study and see how it goes. And even all the addiction to television, which is often not mentioned, but which is also one of the themes that, although it is important for information, does not stimulate the reflexive ability of children, encourages sedentaryness, stimulates possession of material goods, represses the inclination to reading, and this people who are from the world of education have very clear, but even so can influence the adolescent in the fact of creating harm to certain ethnic and religious groups. Therefore, all these measures that could be at the expense of information and of donating new communication platforms, what it does is that they depend on how it is used, as it used to say to the beginning, and on the quantity, you said very well, can be converted into addictions. What's behind these additions? Also, from the Health Department is detected. Often they are problems of immatureness, of unconsolidated identity, of loneliness, of isolation, of unstable personalities, of disformity, of social or family inadequacy and, very often, of low self-esteem. The first signs that indicate the theme of addictions are the tendency to family and social isolation. So, here, like the department, we can do very little, it's just that the families tell us. Low school income, which here is the education department. Letting go of the usual activities, therefore, a social issue. Let go of the social activities of the oci, where the department has a lot to see. Can't control the fact of performing a certain action, or aggression and bad mood. The majority of people who have social addictions are unaware of the problem, and this is the other difficulty that leads us to detect it. What is it that applies in general? So, peer-to-peer testing, looking for playful and rewarding activities, working on social skills both in school centres and outside school centres, increasing self-esteem for all possible measures, training with relaxation in anxiety control issues, progressive and regular risk exposure in the company of another person – so that there is always a tutor – and creating a new life style. And here's where, like the government, I think we need to get in directly. In fact, it's not just a matter of the department that encapsulates it, it's a matter of the whole government; that's why we have information, guidance and resources in two parts, one for the family and the other in educational resources for the students, and that's because of the education department they have, they're working on it and they're developing it. From Salut, we've had our detection and treatment task. You talked about a hospital; I could talk about other hospitals, for example, the Courtship Unit of the Bellvitge Hospital, a unit that is a referent in these themes and where the Health Department has its own part and part. Since the Department of Enterprise, the Consumer Agency – with Enterprise and Economy – makes the diffusion of programs at the general level, at the level of people, as well as consumers, whose responsibility must be in digital attention. And from the Department of Social Affairs what we do is as much as possible in prevention and follow-up, but when there is not enough prevention and follow-up to the part of young people that you are referring to, therefore, from the Directorate-General for Youth – and if you enter the website of the Directorate-General for Youth you will see all the programs we have developed for young people both for prevention and for monitoring – we also have a specialized unit in return; that is, a good time to Health has been detected and done the treatment, we, from Social Affairs, and in concrete from the Directorate-General for Youth, have different programs so that the return to normal life, the change of social life if possible. So, what we're working on, like government, is for a responsible digital citizen, and, as you said, I think we need to work a lot more than we're doing so far; then, if we go in, I'll explain to you the more concrete programs of each one we're carrying... but it's a topic that's more, and so it's a topic that we have to predict with more intensity and work on more than it's done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.5.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.6.0	Yes, thank you, President. Thank you, also, Constellera Bassa, for your answer. The Administration has a duty to ensure the interests and rights of children and young people in this area and in everyone, and that is what it says to me, because they are doing or intend to do with these programmes that it has told us that it will explain to us. However, that doesn't match what we meet later. Look, I'll give you an example. This is what you can find anyone who goes into TV3 programming on the website of the Catalan Mitjans Audiovisual Corporation. [[The speaker shows an image to the chamber.]] In case it doesn't look good from here, I'll explain it. Just enter, we find an advertising banner that puts « Paf. it is, megabono casino, 1,200_euros, in golden letters and very big; impossible to pass unnoticed. And if anyone clicks here, in this banner, what will be found is a web where the first thing that is announced, I also teach you, is: « Thirty_euros. Bet safe. I want to play. And if we download a little more on this website, it informs us about everything we can play here: slots, live casino, bets, normal casino and bingo. Counselre, is this the type of protection offered by the Generalitat in relation to the online game? , encourage the game on daily viewing websites as is TV3 programming? And we know that online advertising is allowed, we've said it before, but is there really nothing else to advertise on your websites? And besides, I tell you more, I teach you again: do you know what I was consulting here? The programming of the Super Channel3, a channel that is targeted specifically at children. Look, counselor, the Administration has to be more aware of the effects the game can have on young people. While it is true that if responsible use is made of the game this is not a problem, we should bear in mind that children and young people often do not have the tools to deal with situations. There are many voices that are warning us about it. I have already quoted the opinion of the experts, but let me insist that we really become aware of the harmful effects of the game on minors and young people, because in your speech you have told me that the opinion of the experts is not very clear. Well, we, I'm telling you, we've consulted with a number of specialists, and they all agree on the same thing. According to the report Hàbits i practiques de joves de les personnes joves a Catalunya, prepared by the Fundació Ferrer i Guàrdia, where the opinions of experts in youth and games, representatives of associations of players and young people between fifteen and twenty-nine years of age who practice gambling, the effects of the game on adolescents are multiple: sadness, anxiety, depression, irritability, physical problems as a result of the stress caused by lies, isolation, economic problems, legal problems – since there are many young people who have to resort to theft in order to be able to continue betting –, under school and work performance, abandonment of studies, dismissals, loss of labour relations, and consumption of substances such as alcohol or drugs, because it is proven that the incidence rate of alcoholism among pathological players is higher than that for the total population. And all of this I explain to you so that we can see the magnitude of the problem, which can be assumed if we are not able to establish transversal prevention mechanisms and are effective, because we do not need programs hung on a web if then they do not apply or if then they do not have the desired effects. We therefore need to do more prevention. Look, adolescence is a crucial stage in young people's lives – I've told you before –: between 15 and 24 years is when young people make important lifestyle decisions that will determine their future as adults. It is therefore at this stage – from fifteen to twenty-four years – that actions aimed at the youth group and its development as an adult should be concentrated. You have told us before that little can be done by you from your department; indeed, counsel, how can you ‘little?' I mean, does it seem to you that you're a little short on the root problem? I mean, prevention is everything, in this case. Look, it's not enough with a website dedicated to informing about the game or where to ask for help, it's not enough, it advises. Nor is it enough to say that we are working on it or that it is a matter of concern. More needs to be done, more needs to be invested in the prevention and detection of these pathologies resulting from the use of ICT, more needs to be invested in treatment and more needs to be investigated about the causes and prevalence of these addictions, and above all – above all – we need to preach with the example, counselor. The Administration has to be more sensitive and involve itself in the hundred_per_cent so that a child who goes to consult at what time their favorite series or any other web that depends on the Generalitat and that goes above all directed to the little ones, the first thing he sees is not a luminous ad inviting him to play, because this is a problem for the young people of now, but it will also be for the adults of tomorrow if we do not work on it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.7.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.8.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I don't think I explained myself well, because when I told him that there was no unanimity in the opinion – clear and unanimous – on the part of the professionals, I gave him up to what point they talk about dependence, they talk about abuse, they talk about addiction. So, it's not that you disagree, because I gave him a date later that I told him that one_of_each_four people has behavior disorders related to the nine addictions, and that's what the World Health Organization says. So, either I didn't explain it well, or you didn't understand it well, or maybe it's the language change. [[Widow's remorse.]] Second thing, you're talking about TV3; you're talking about TV3, you're talking about the Catalan corporation... I'm sorry, you're teaching me the announcements you've got TV3. I believe that if it is the announcements that you have TV3, the one that you have to make..., first, TV3 must depend – the Catalan corporation – on the Catalan Parliament, therefore, as a member of the Catalan Parliament, you can go 'directly. You know... this isn't about my department or the government directly; so, it's about the department... TV3 can go there. Besides, he's got an audiovisual board from Catalonia, where performances are performed. Therefore, the spirit that if you have detected any problems is directed directly to this audiovisual board because they have resources for teachers, they have reports; even so, there is a penjata report that says The analysis of the presence of contents on online games in audiovisual media and the internet. So, he's not the king who has to see the government. As the government, which is the part that surrounds us, look, I'll tell you, from the department, I explained it very clearly, prevention, follow-up and reintegration. At this time, we have 397 places in the therapeutic community and 141 floors in support of the reintegration of all those people who have had addictions, still with substances, not with substances. At these times there are 1,076 people who would benefit from these spaces that I gave. In the last four years we have increased with 1_million euros..., and this year 2015 is 11.8_million euros which is destined for these themes, which, if the assumption has been approved, was more, as you can see, according to the assumption. Plus, we're working with a day center model for people with addiction; it's a job that started in 2015, where there are different jails. In the field of prevention we are in the social intervention model in addiction prevention; working with families. We have the "Creating as a family so that we can talk about all these issues and work there, which was intended for all young people from six to seven years old. In these moments there are thirty-two workshops with the participation of more than 450 families. But in addition, the Directorate-General for Youth has developed sixty-five programs, with a value of €5.2 million, which are designed to raise awareness among young people about habits and healthy behaviors, to provide training and resources for the promotion of all those themes that are not addictive, what can be done when there is an addiction to be able to get out of them; as I said, it is often in fact, and what suits us is programs because they can develop more than they are doing. Therefore, remove the risk ducts to become solvent activities. We work for co-responsibility with all agents and above all make alert and prevent health-related risk lines. But, besides, as I said, as the subject is integral to the whole government, from the DIXIT we have 500 monographs, 50 audiovisual resources, 250 articles of magazines, thematic files of all types referring to addictions. So, the information, we give it. There is the Pla Director of Mental Health, who knows very well what's going on, where one of the important themes is precisely drugs and addictions and social addictions. The follow-up, the face orientation with young people, the advice by means of the Teenagers web, the prevention of all those social addictions that can allow, together with entities as important as Energy Control and Red Cree, but, moreover, the elaboration of a lot of material. I spoke to him about a hospital, a hospital that was a referent, and I just told him this because it is not a hospital that is contracted for CatSalut, I tell him because it is a hospital that is a referent, it is of the ICS, and there are many others: we have the Hospital, as deia, of Bellvitge ; the Institute Pere Mata, of Reus ; the Sanitary Park Martí Julià, of Girona ; the General Hospital of Manresa ; the Sanitary Consortium of Terrassa ; the Hospital Santa Maria, of Lleida ; Maresme ; Hospital Clínic..., all with epidemiological studies of the pathological game, but also with units of treatment for when it comes to these cases. The amount of money allocated to these items is EUR 698,331. You're right that we'd have to devote a lot more, that we'd have to work a lot more, but that's what we have so far, and I hope that in our own time we can work more, following the addicts. But I recommend that you go to TV3 and not go to the government when you need something from TV3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.9.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the health model]] [[300-00071/11]] The agenda item is an inquiry to the Government on the health model presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. To expose her, has the word Ms. Montserrat Candini.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.10.0	Good morning, President. Good morning, counselors, congressmen, congressmen, congressmen. From the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, we want to talk about the health model and that is why we present the inquiry to Councillor Comín. Allow me, however, to advise, in a very special way, that you make a brief, very brief introduction, that, when at the moment in the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Yes we were to consider that it was absolutely appropriate to talk about the health model, we could scarcely come to think, therefore, that at the end of a few days we would feel, sadly, those statements of the head of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia in which it is drunk to have loaded the health system. I think that few episodes like these can mark in a clear way and visualize in a very clear way as is the decay of a public server. Because, regardless of his profession and the field to which he belongs, it is obvious, therefore, that what he does, somehow or otherwise, is to place him in the field, let's say, of the destroyers. And in this realm of destroyers is where there can be no, no way, space for public servers. And I said this, so I would like to remember how one way, let's say, repeat, we have been born today – because we see it this way and it seems to us that it forms part, let's say, of our DNA – that the Catalan public health system is the result of the effort of generations that have prioritized salvation and contributed to creating the current system. Professionals, workers, citizens have understood and defended the importance of enjoying a public, universal, quality, equitable and sustainable health system. And it is in this same context, in which the introduction about the decay of a public server is made, that it is also important, let's say, to finish framing like all this health system, this health model, is above all armored from not only the law of system order..., health care, of the year 1990, but also for all the different social agents that logically form part as the joint of the country, representing different professional colleges. Social agents, logically, let's say, have reacted before, so, of this manifestation and that..., at the end and at the end, not only manifestation, but even use of public money to try, somehow or otherwise, to misrepresent something that you have to see with social cohesion. And this is where I allow myself to comment, to make my own one of the words... that have participated in a very clear way the different social agents when they said that destroying our health care system is a serious insult and shows a total lack of ethics on the part of whom formula and practice, and it is a direct attempt against the basic right of citizens. All of this, logically, I think that today was to be said, I think that we should be part of it, so let's say it, as an introductory element of the health model, to give it double or triple value to everything that has been done, that is done and that I am convinced, counselor, that will explain to us..., from a point of view of everything that is preparing the advice to pull it forward. And there are three basic axes – three basic axes – in this health system: values. As with all the question that is raised from a point of view of a service of public interest and general interest, logically it is marked with values. And these values, in a very clear way, have to do with fairness, have to do with quality and have to do with efficiency. Why, what are we talking about when we talk about each of these values? Fairness, logically, is fair in access and results, why, to whom is it cured? It cures everyone, regardless of their socioeconomic condition. And, everyone, depending only on his pathology, on the same needs, the same resources. This, which may seem – which is an expression, "the same needs, the same resources – which is an evidence, is a great conquest of our system. I, therefore, must be valued – as is considered, in value, by the Government – but it must be – if 'empermet, councillor' – to subrate and in bold: to equal needs, equal resources. The second element, the element of quality. How do we cure it? What is curated by the health system? So, logically, with a very extensive portfolio of public services, many things are cured. And our results in salvation are, in international comparative terms, and, therefore, with indicators that are not a type of internal cophosm, years against, because in a very clear way we know, in any case, that the indicators are what it is able to give us..., if we do well, if we do well, if we can do better, and it is in this exercise also always to ask ourselves if things can do better..., the internationally comparative results are very good. So he's a good healer. Therefore, it deserves the collection of professionals and all the people who, in the end and in the end, are the ones who are working in this field. Efficiency. Why, with what resources do we do that? So much good, logically, we have more resources. We have said this in a very clear way, therefore, in a repeated way by the Group of Joints for the Yes and that is why we have clear who our path is. But it's also true, and we must remember, therefore, that the whole thing doesn't help at all, to this. But, despite this, with efficiency and resources we are, they are, from the health system, efficient. As much as our expenditure is under GDP, I mean, I mean... like GDP, it's low, I mean, right? So, logically, so, this would be good to improve, but in any case... efficiency with resources that are good. And that's that one of those values is more than the other value? No, all three exactly the same. There can be no equity if there is no quality and efficiency. There can be no efficiency if there is no quality and fairness. Logically, there can be no quality without efficiency and fairness. Therefore, there is no more important than the others and the right to salvation is the umbrella, in any case – as I said at the beginning – which ends up as an axoplugant and which is the umbrella that brings it all together. There is no real right to salvation if any of these three values fail, or say otherwise, the right to salvation is the value that is in each of them. Of each of these values in logically pengen many lifts but which form part of some of these areas. Universality – as we spoke before – has logically, with fairness, financial sustainability and also with efficiency, participation and satisfaction. But apart from this question there is also a very important element that is all that you have to see, let's say, with the diversity of providers, that is clearly marked between the context of the health system. The diversity of providers has allowed us to maximize the results, when we call 'efficiency'. Maximizing the results in relation to these three reasons that we have said because it has allowed us, in any case, to minimize the structural disadvantages that can potentially present each type of provider and, for another band, by reason, logically, of its legal nature. But logically, too, he was able, let's say, to maximize all those abilities of results. Therefore, all this is absolutely important. I used to refer to the Health System Ordering Law, which is a law that this next July 9th will be 26 years old, right? , and I want to remind you that this law, that it was the law that was called, for a long time, "the law of Xavier Trias – it has just been pushed by counsel – and that it was approved by the votes, at that time, of Convergence and Union, of Initiative, of Esquerra Republicana, of the People's Party and of the Joint Group, and that, doubtless, it was one of the laws that has built the most consensus of all that our model of Catalan well-being has sufficed. And, therefore, this Law of Health Order, which is very clear and which explains, therefore, the principle of distribution to which I now refer with the diversity of providers, such as ICS and companies and consortia, such as other municipal publics and private providers. I think it's those laws that -- we're talking about 1990 -- and with that still, let's just say, democracy so young, so I think it's, you know, those laws that, in a very clear way, were framed with a thing..., with an anime. That is to say, all the laws have an anime, that is logical, because if the vocation is the public service, they all have anime, but it is obvious that this, the LOSC, somehow or otherwise, had a very clear anime and had an important factor, not only the principle of universality, but logically also that of social cohesion. That's all I've explained and commented on, from a point of view... as with the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes, counselor, that it's the values, that it's the law of order, that it's the diversity of providers, that it's all that's been done long enough for so many years... but that, logically, you, counselor, now has the responsibility..., and it's more of us, therefore, its passion to be able to pull forward, despite the context of the difficulties involved at the international level and, logically, also at the country level. That is why, counselor, we would like to know a lot of first-hand how and in what way we can still stimulate more, give, say, come out to all those things that, of course, always – because the realities are very dynamic – always need to improve. And that, of course, with the LOSC's experience, with the resources that we have with the same values, you, as a counselor, and the next, so let's say, of a group of professionals that you direct, let's give, let's say, the greatest possible servants and the best instrument for the benefit of collectivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.11.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Greetings from the Councillor, Mr. Antoni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.12.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Candini, friend, our system of salvation for the last five years has had a tough situation that adds to a situation of structural infra-financing. Therefore, it is a system with problems. The problem of infra-financing that has been noticed – and the last few years more – in the form of salary breakdowns to professionals, that has been noticed in the form of a change in investments and that has been noticed in the form of an increase in waiting lists. We are very well aware of what impact our health system has had during these thirty-five years of infra-financing, but this does not prevent us from asking a question that is: okay, under-financing, but the model is good? The Catalan health model in what is specific, in what is different from other health models beyond its underfunding, is it good or is it not good? I've sometimes answered in a provocative way and all that if we were to invent our health model, we'd probably have to do it back the way it is, because it's a good model. How's this model? What does he do specifically? What's the difference? Diversity; diversity of providers. The diversity of providers in relation to what? To his title; in relation to his legal nature. When we say that the Catalan system is diverse and that this is what makes it different from the others, we say that, the providers, some of them are public with statutory staff; that others are public but that they are public enterprises with professional staff; that others are private suppliers without a desire for work; that others are private suppliers with a desire for work... That's what makes it specific. Is that good, this catalyse-specific health model? Congresswoman Candini explained it very well. How do we value a health system to know if it's good or not good? We have to value it based on three values that are irreducible between them. A frequent error is not to think about whether a system, whether a health model pleases us or not, is to judge it on the basis of only one of these three values, and the three values are irrevocable: equity, efficiency and quality. They're different values; they're irreducible, so we're talking about a triangle. They can't reduce one to the other. That there are compatible values between them, however, does not mean that there are harmonic values. Balancing these three values well is not easy, there are trade-offs between equity and efficiency, and so on, if there is trade-offs between equity and efficiency. There is trade-off between efficiency and quality, oh, and so much, that yes, between quality and equity too. Therefore, compatible but not easy to harmonize. And at the time of evaluating a health system, what we need to see is if it's capable of satisfying all three well. And our health system has been able to satisfy all three: equity, efficiency and universality. And the question we have to ask ourselves, with all the indicators we have of subjective and objective types, that it is one of the health systems with the most indicators in Europe..., the internationally contrasted conclusion, OECD, etc., is that it has met all three values well. And the question we have to ask ourselves is: do you have something to see this specificity, do you have something to see the diversity of providers, this catal model, do you have something to see with the internationally contrasted fact that we have a good enough record of the three assignments? And the answer is yes. Why? For a reason, I think, easy to hear, that it is that each of these types of providers, each of these titles, each of these legal natural ones, if we think about them abstractly – after each concrete actor has his own history and his own case, that I will not enter there now, however – from the social sciences [[the Councillor riu]] We have enough knowledge accumulated after two hundred years as to know that each of these titles presents a specific balance of risks and strengths in relation to equity, efficiency and quality. And that a public actor with status staff has a balance of equity-like, unlike that of a private actor without a desire to work, etc. And that an actor with a desire to work has a balance similar to the efficiency of what he has in relation to quality. So, if we look at all types of providers, and all types of providers look at three values, what we find is that each one of these providers has its strengths, has its weaknesses with regard to these three ages of this triangle, and this is the accumulated learning of two hundred years of public administration, with its pros and cons, of two hundred years of accumulated learning about private business law, with its pros and cons, and we're too much to ignore that each of these types has drawbacks, just as it has strengths. Who was the grace? It would be in an ideological prejudice that it would not help us to deny the disadvantages of the public administration right, just as it would be in an ideological prejudice worse still to deny the disadvantages of the private actors built, configured in the mark of the private business right, who have as their motivation the desire to work. It's two hundred years of social learning that can't make you see that it hasn't happened. Okay. What's the grace of our health model? The reason for our health model is that the diversity of providers has allowed us a good balance between these different providers, in these different balances, of advantages and drawbacks, which has made the combination of all of us, in the end, make it possible to draw a good note in the three assignments. That is to say, we have a good student in equity that may not be so high in quality; we have a good student in efficiency that perhaps it is not so high in fairness... In the end, the medium that takes the sum of all the students, which is what would shape the joint of our health system, is good thanks to the fact that the strengths of some are offset by the strengths of others, the weaknesses of some balance with the weaknesses of others. But that's not all. This serious, we could say so, the benefits of getting out of the fact that we have built our health care system according to this diversity of providers, but there are some advantages that we could say, so to speak, that it is really the ones that explain the success of the model, or the bonds of the model. What's that? That this diversity of providers in which each is strongly related to one value or another, to one vertex or another of the triangle, has allowed, the fact of being together, a reciprocal learning. Therefore, if public-type actors have natural advantages in relation to equity, but natural disadvantages in relation to efficiency, the fact of living with the rest of actors has allowed them to learn efficiency, as have private actors, if they have natural advantages in relation to efficiency, but they have natural disadvantages in relation to equity, to set an example, the fact of living them has allowed them to resolve, improving their inherent disadvantages in relation to equity. What are we talking about? That, in the end, all providers are doing well, all have a good record in all three assignments, but this has been possible in the measure that there has been a reciprocal learning in which each has made a tractor of one of the principles, and without the public actors in the public health system, who have made a tractor of equity, we would not have the level of general fairness that the system and other actors today do not have the capacity to properly satisfy this principle of equity. And without private actors in the third sector, we probably wouldn't have the performance we have in terms of efficiency; they've done efficiency tractors and helped the system's actors together to solve the efficiency objective well. Therefore, the sum of all the actors has allowed everyone in a learning process to remain as good as possible in relation to everything, which has allowed the sum of the actors, which is the system, to offer what I give to the principle, which is this good performance in international terms, in comparative terms, both in results, both in efficiency and in fairness. I'll just complete this reflection on the second part. In any case, I believe that it has, in some ways, made our health system, if we say so in terms of financial theory, it has continued to diversify risks. Aware that each provider generates risks per reason of its legal nature, that they are structural, that they are inherent, what our health system has done has been diversifying these risks by diversifying the type of provider. Where did he do that? This was done to LOFC, this was decided by the Members of Convergence and Union, the Members of Initiative for Catalonia, the Members of the Republican Left, the Members of the PP, the Members of the Mixed Group – I don't know if I'm leaving anyone – and later the Socialist Party also added, with a law of great consensus that allowed from the PP to the Initiative to be voted together from the consciousness that diversity of providers could be a virtue of our model. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.13.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. There's the word Mrs. Candini.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.14.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor, for your explanations and also, therefore, logically, to give all those elements of reflection that end, let us say it, appreciating... You have said many interesting things, but of the interesting things that you say, logically, "the system has structural problems, and one of them, logically, is the infra-finance that we suffer like the country. I think it's so important, logically, to look at the whole system, and from the point of view of the system, what is that that could always be better? This obliges us all, places us all and all the questions that could be better, as well as – as well – looking at what we are starting from and, in this case, an underfunding and a structural problem accumulated over the years – over the years – which, logically, makes it much clearer. You said, the model is good – the model is good – and therefore the model can throw it away – can throw it away. I insist that this does not remain or escape from everything that falls from a point of view of the best that can represent any plantation that, logically, like that reality is very dynamic, that is, in any case, it is always finished, let us say, to complete and give results and answers to the needs of our fellow citizens, and in this case also serious, logically, our patients. I believe that one of the questions that needs to be looked at and talked about when we talk about the health system and health policy is, above all, to combat ideological harm. There are questions that I believe that dogmatism, on the one hand, for one thing, and on the other hand the ideological damage, curses everything that in its moment is pulled forward, and it is pulled forward with a great consensus. We would not strengthen the health system if we were to block certain questions simply because of ideological prejudices, or to block certain questions simply because what we are dealing with is to go and reaffirm in a dogmatism that what it does is to block what it is to give an answer. What do you mean the defense of everything that we are, let's just say, going forward is absolutely true? I'm sure you don't. Sure – sure – that in all contributions from all political parties we can improve on what is the health model with the 1990 law. We are sure that contributions from the different parliamentary groups and, in a very special way, from those Members of the Health Party who know, have knowledge, that some are part of the profession, of course they can improve it. But I would love to be able to insist very much on these two elements. No dogmatisms, no ideological harm. Dogmatism blocks; what is some blocker, of course what it does is not move forward. And, logically, the ideological prejudices are equally harmful to our health model: the one who considers that what is always inefficient and that the only factor of efficiency is private management, or the one who considers private initiative to be always a factor of injustice and that public services are only capable of guaranteeing full social rights in an equitable way when they are publicly owned. Honestly, we believe that this is an overly closed and overly rigid vision that will not help efficiency, equity and quality, which is what everyone – I am not convinced – wants. For all this, thank you so much again, counselor, and only one last petition, huh? , which is a petition that, logically, doesn't fit, because I see it day by day, but I do have the obligation to say it - there. In any case, wait for him, counselor, we want to wait for you because you once more lead the defense of the sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.15.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Counselor Antoni Comín responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.16.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. As for what you're saying now, who's one of the LOSC's thanks? Maybe one of LOSC's clearest thanks? All right, diversity is a vantage point, but it'll only be good if we get it right. It cannot be a chaotic diversity: "Now, all providers of all naturals come and organize themselves as they can. No, LOSC doesn't do that. LOSC orders our various model, based on what? Based on a principle of preference, which I defend today that it remains valid. Actually, it's a double-preferential principle. And what is the principle of double preference that those deputies decided on year 91 of all the parties? That public providers have a preference for private providers. That's not what Councilman Comín says, that's what LOSC says, in Article 5. They got it right – they got it right. And what's the second part of this preference principle? That in private providers, suppliers with no desire to work have a preference for suppliers with a desire to work. Is that what Councilman Comin says? No, that's what the LOSC says. And they got it right, that's what Councilman Comín said. They were right, it's thanks. Therefore, principles of preference, which is not a principle of exclusion, no one is excluded. In a principle of preference we do not say: "This type of provider we do not want. No, we'll want it if we need it, according to the preference criteria that mark the law. But neither is it a principle of homogeneity, a principle of preference. All the same, no. There's everybody. Therefore, this is very important for us to be clear. From here, we have to hear a couple of questions that come as a logical consequence of what we have said. Is the title relevant to the time to think about providers? Yes, it is, of course, if it is the LOSC that ranks them; the first that ranks them, the providers, depending on their title is the LOSC. When you say: "The Català Servant of Salvation will be composted by a, b, c, d... How does the providers identify that article 5? Depending on your title. Is it possible to monothetically become obsessed with ownership? No, I wouldn't feel it. Now, can you ignore that the title matters? No, the title matters because, if not, the LOSC could not have been built. From here, conclusions of what we have said. Public enterprises are not a problem with our health system. ICS is not the problem with our health care system, and as long as it doesn't. The ICS makes contributions that only the ICS can make in our health care system, and so it recognizes the same LOSC. Does the ICS need reforms and improvements? Totes. We'll have all the months they come forward to talk about it, I'm not sure, but the ICS makes essential contributions. Now, is diversity a problem? No, diversity is not a problem with our health system. To say that diversity is a problem can only start from harm, as well as to say that ICS is the problem can only start from the opposite harm. No, no, We have a fleet, that the grace of the fleet is that it is diverse, that there are "boats of many kinds. Now, the grace of this fleet is that at the middle it has a sign hole, because a fleet that was not different would be worse, but a different fleet without a sign hole would also be worse. And what's the hallmark of our fleet of hospital providers, etc., healthcare? The ICS, public enterprises. And as long as it is. Why am I saying that? No, because the LOSC said it – because the LOSC said it. And that made our health system good, this ability to build from diversity. From here on out, all the policies that the department's fan of adhere to this preference principle. We are in favour of public-private cooperation in accordance with the principle of preference that LOSC has, but we are also in favour of depriving management of agreement with the principle of preference that LOSC has. If we can talk, by the way, about the terminological debate, if we can talk about public-private cooperation, when we let private providers in and it seems like it's good to say so, we also need to be able to talk about depriving management when we get private providers out, because if the name goes on a case also goes on the counter; if not, we would be in a legal contradiction. And let no one act, let's say, if it's about depriving management, because technically it is, just as technically it's public-private cooperation the opposite. We are still doing this for public-private cooperation, such as the depriving of management in accordance with the principle of preference established by the LOSC. I believe that the most important thing, now that I am lucky enough to walk through all the hospitals and primary centres in our country, is to be aware, Members and Members, that probably the main element of social cohesion that has been present in Catalan society, the main element of guaranteeing equal opportunities and equal citizenship that has been present in Catalan society, is our health system. It's a gem, it's done with the effort of many generations, we can be very proud of it, it makes our country more just, and I tell them not to destroy it. I can assure you that. Thank you, Madam President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.17.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the working conditions of teachers]] [[302-00052/11]] The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on the working conditions of teachers presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word María José García Cuevas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.18.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to welcome all the trade union representatives who are with us. Honourable Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, as we explained yesterday among the opposition, the situation in the public education system in Catalonia is very difficult. Years of cuts and abandonment by the government – first of Convergence and Unity and then of Democratic Convergence with Republican Left – have placed the system on the verge of bankruptcy in stability and quality. These two governments have for years failed and harmed Catalan teachers, subjecting them to workloads, wage cuts and unfair working conditions and without comparison in the rest of Spain. From the People's Party we raised a question to the Councilwoman, based on four key aspects to improve the working conditions of this body, basic for public education to work: call for objections, repeal of the decree of staff, return of extra wages retained and return to the ratios and school hours prior to the crisis. In short, we ask for stability, independence, consideration towards this collective so punished that patience and resignation are being exhausted and with all reason. The councillor told us of other things: of pilot tests that are not used, state decrees that are not applied, of the LOMCE or of the ideal application of the decree of templates, decree that with its current drafting is not at all justified by the autonomy of the center, because it circumvents the controls and limitations that two years ago we have already posed unsuccessfully to the then conseller Rigau. She was talking to us about the profile logic that she asks for in English, unless the person chosen by this profile later, because she doesn't have to give the English class, as is happening, but she's a person close to the address. Finally, so many unanecdotal examples of the arbitrariness that is allowing the decree of templates, some that we know from the press and many that were handed over in writing, by a union to the department without being answered or acted upon. And it is that the norm cannot depend on the good faith of the one who applies it, because then directly would not need the norm. It is not a question of doubting or blaming anyone, but of seeking fair and balanced rules, which does not seem to be very foolish. The repeal of this Staff Decree, in addition to other issues worked with the various representatives of the professionals concerned, are the points that we are putting to debate and vote today. In short, we propose to adopt measures that guarantee and encourage the independence, motivation, recognition and excellence of our teachers, as stated in paragraph 1 of the motion. In particular, in point 2 we call for objections before June next year, so that they can be met with stability, publicity and capacity and merit guaranteed all staffing needs in primary, secondary, VET and special regime education, returning to pre-crisis ratios the next course and logical levels of interinity in 18, which should not exceed 5_per_cent. Point 3 calls for the repeal of the Staff Regulations Decree. Point 4, return before the end of 2016 all outstanding extra pay of 2012, unjustly withheld. They are all aware of the Supreme Court's ruling that it has ratified the injustice that it entailed retroactively applying this cut to the first six months of 2012. Point 5 sets out a three-month timetable for the repayment of the extra payments withheld from 13 and 14. Point 6, return to teachers older than fifty years of age the possibility of reducing their teaching hours in two hours; a right that they had recovered and that now the Generalitat has again cut them off without explanation. Point 7 obliges the Government to pay the substitutes in July, because they are in their right. Point 8 asks to return the next course to the pre-crisis school hours, which guarantee the quality of education, eliminating the time overload that teachers have assumed during the crisis. As well as ensuring the coverage of school leavers from day one, in point 9. Finally, in point 10 we call for the recovery, before the end of 2017, of all the other unmentioned labour rights that have been cut off from teachers. We extend these requests for rights and pay to the rest of the employees of the public sector of the Generalitat, for a question of justice, although initially the motion was confined to the educational field, and we set deadlines at each point, which will facilitate verification and control of the compliance of each point we approve. We call for support for this motion, because we sincerely believe that it is a matter of justice to resolve the situation facing our teachers and teachers. Because the students deserve teachers who are prepared, motivated and excellent and who, to a large extent, already have them. And because the teachers do not deserve the overload, disregard and tension to which the current Government of the Generalitat is subjecting with its opaque, contradictory, partisan and qualified actions, from the sector, as very little serious. In our hands, ladies and gentlemen, it is the solution. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.19.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, Ms Esther Niubó, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.20.0	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. A greeting also to the members of the educational community who accompany us. First of all, I would like to thank Congresswoman García Cuevas, the initiative to present a motion to address a better number of the working conditions of the teachers; a collection that is never tired of recognizing that it is the fundamental pillar of the education system, but that, in change, since 2012 is carrying on its spaces, and patint-ing them, very important details that end up affecting the quality of education. We think that it is a particularly opportune motion, taking into account, therefore, the principle of the course that sees and that deals with important questions for the teacher, such as the summoning of objections to the body, both at primary, secondary, FP and special rule teachings. And, therefore, we would celebrate that this point, therefore, is approved, but that it is also complicated, because we already know various motions that in the last months make reference to the summons of objections and follow pending, therefore, of this summons. We also share the need to return the teachers' pending payments; a claim that seems to us to be just and that, moreover, would allow us to stop being the only autonomous community of all Spain on the 2012 payment has not returned fairly, nor the external ones of 2013 and 2014. That said, we also want to state that, in some cases, it is a matter of issues that have been negotiated, have been granted to sectoral months, and we also want to recognise that. For another band, therefore, we find it uncertain, opportune, that it is asked the Government to rectify in the decision of the department to withdraw the reduction of the two teaching hours available to the teacher of more than fifty-five years; to suspend the payment of double pay to the substitutes of more than six months that they have right, that they are detailed that affect 21,000 of the 70,000 existing masters, and that it has been used, as we said yesterday, as the currency of change in certain negotiations claus as the reinforcement of the model of inclusive school or the support of the centres of high complexity. It also seems fair to us to recover the teaching hours of the teacher prior to 2012; it claimed that we have collected on various occasions to the Commission of Education, as well as to ensure the replacement of the lower teacher from the first day, from the course school, as yesterday we put out of manifest to strengthen, precisely, the attention of the student and improve the quality of the public education. But I want to stop in the decree of plants and provision of teaching places: to the PSC we are in favour of ensuring that this configuration of plants, the provision of teaching places, is realized respecting the principles of objectivity of the merits, the abilities of the aspiring people, as well as their transparency and publicity, in a consensual way with the educational community, ensuring the highest quality of education, the improvement of care and respect for educational projects and the autonomy of the centres. We are aware that the execution and deployment of this decree may have distorted the objects that lay the law and that there is great dissatisfaction with certain perverse or unjust practices that may be generating. In fact, we have not spoken to various unions, teachers on many occasions, and at the last few hours we have had the opportunity to know the opinion of even more sectors of the educational community. We think, indeed, that the dialogue between the educational community and the department on the application of the decree and its better, and that it would be necessary to review this decree, that it is done with the participation and the consent of the different social agents involved, of different representatives of the educational community, with the aim of ensuring, precisely, that its implementation guarantees the principles of publicity, information to the centres, objectivity and merit that we incorporate into our agenda. We think that the repeal of the decree in itself does not bring any solution and that is why today we will abstain in point 3, but we will propose in the next days the creation of a working group, the revision of the decree and its application. In short, we agree, therefore, to insist on the Government that it cannot continue to give the schematics or to mistreat the professionals of education or the joint educational community, that it is necessary to prioritize the fact of reversing the details, that they have been pressing the system and affecting quality for years. And that is why we believe that it is essential that the Government makes use of all the financial instruments available in the context of the presuppositional prorogation to dispose of those resources necessary to make effective the measures that we hope will be taken today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.21.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr. Josep Maria Forné, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.22.0	Madam President... deputies and deputies, members of the educational community, this is a young woman who in her intentions can be very good, but in the results, I, or we, consider her to be a young woman of disproposals. Beyond that, I'm talking about intentions, results, misproposals. Why deproposals? For various reasons. The first, because it is a young person who proposes better working conditions but disconnects them from the faculty, but completely disconnects them from the conditions or proposals of better pedagogical. For example, it does not take into account, therefore, the complexity or proposals for pedagogical innovation in the questions of the timetable – for example. Or, for example, as the previous Member put it, the issue of the plant law, which is a very powerful tool for the better of educational activity, in change, therefore, wants to repeal it and to move it like an impotent tool that we have. This disconnecting the working conditions from the pedagogical conditions is a hard mistake, it is a first deproposal. A second disproposal is to look for proposals, such as the payment of heavy payments that have been made as a debt, but to propose it..., a form of payment that fails to complete agreements that have been made today; agreements that have been made to the General Negotiating Bureau of the Public Employment, of the Administration of the Generalitat de Catalunya, agreement of 9 June, that those who today will vote yes to these proposals, therefore, do not serve those pacts that have been made, and politics if it is not done to serve the pacts, it is indeed a great disproposal. Thirdly, what we see is that it is an inconsistency, it is a misproposal to ask Catalonia and the Government of the Generality for what is not required of the rest of the State, and which, on the contrary, is not exercised or not carried out. It is, moreover, the incoherence of having to apply the measures of the Royal Decree law of urgent measures of rationalization of public expenditure in the educational field, which the Government of Spain makes, and, in change, is that way of offering and asking you to breathe, and it remains applauding. That's a big mistake. That's what I..., no rule what it does is a..., policies that somehow tighten the working conditions and, in change, you do them not by will, but by obligation. The fourth demeanor, who is it? It's all the measures that have an economic impact, that are an important bulk of what's in this place. They are measures that have an economic impact, of a quantity and a volume that at this time cannot be done. Yesterday the vice president was perfectly explaining how the measures of credit, of request of credit, have an abst: they serve to buy apples, but not pears; but here neither apples nor pears, but we are doing an impressive macedony of what we are asking for. Therefore, it is an economic disproposal that is not possible. In this sense, we are deceiving a sector that is very important, such as the faculty sector, and what we do not want to do, we are deceiving it – deceiving it – with promises that will not be fulfilled. We understand – because we have done this in private, and in any case, someone may do it in public in their position of opposition – so we are aware that we will not be able to apply these things that will be approved today; but, in change, we will apply them..., we will approve them. That's a trick. And cheating and lying isn't lying, but after that it costs a lot or it's impossible to trust again. And that's what we're not gonna do: cheat, because what we're responsible for. And, finally, if I may, an anecdote. It is explained that Alexander the Great, in the desert, with his companions, was already at last, he had only one canteen left, the acafa and the empty one. And his companions say to him: "But what do you do? He says: "The last thing to lose is dignity. So, the last thing we lose together for Yes is dignity and responsibility. And by responsibility, not by good intention, not by bad intention, by responsibility, we say no to those proposals that are not viable and that lead to deception. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.23.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.24.0	Okay. Good morning, everybody. Counselor... thank you, president, for the verse. Mrs García Cuevas, surprised, surprised and glad that the People's Party has presented a motion in defense of the public school. I was surprised that everyone here has their own lobby, and until now the defense held by the patron of the concerted school had been his..., his flag, which rose every day, but I tell him that I am glad that he has seen the light because they are already more in defense of the interests of the workers and the public workers of the teaching. Miri, your motion is a retreat of union demands that demand the representatives of these workers, and, therefore, tell you, from the outset, that most of the points – most of them – we will vote in favour of, in coherence with this representativeness, this attempt to defend those lobbyists that we referred to earlier. Actually, that's what we do many times by Members and Members of this chamber. Now, it's good that when you pick up requests from others, it's good to know what they think, what we're doing, and what point of negotiation you find the requests you're making. And here, I think, Congresswoman, you've missed a little belt, if I may. I am saying this because, in no case should this Parliament and these Members and Members seek to replace collective bargaining, which is key for us. And, I'm sure we don't want to, that nobody wants to, I don't think we should vote on some aspects that have been negotiated, and this negotiation has already come to a good end. And that happens in a couple of points, which I'll specify later. But as long as I have time, let's go to the station. Miri, some are rhetorical, like the first one, "guarante independence... – the fourth word you have put is the word "independence, take it into account" –, "independence, motivation, the recognition of the teachers. We agree. We agree. It's a rhetorical point, but it's a rhetoric we share; we'll approve it. On the second point, on the other hand, we have some reticence. It's obvious that we want to summon opposition, it's obvious. But it is also obvious that there has been a negotiation here and that it is intended to be convened on June 2017, not before, as you have here. There's already an agreement for the date. On the other hand, you can't call oppositions to the maximum rates per class because they're two concepts that aren't related. I think there's a confusing editorial here. Surely, my mistake of not presenting you with an alternative essay, I apologize. But, look, we'll abstain. We will abstain, because we do want opposition, but not with this wording, which we believe is confusing. Point 3: Repeal the plant decree. Well, okay, I suppose it's about the current decree, which has been very much contested by the faculty, and so I understand that if we repeal this we will recover the text from the previous one, which incorporates many of the lost working conditions. In this sense, we'll give you support. Points 4 and 5..., we agree: return the foreign payments. Oh, so much so that we want to return the foreign payments. I suppose he remembers that we were going to approve motions for all the public office that they gave that same. But we have the same problem that in the 2nd, there has already been a negotiation here, you are already discussed at the table, with certain timetables granted, and it does not have to be the Parliament that is moving the plane, or it seems that it wants to move the plane, to the agreements of the sectoral table. So, here, although we obviously agree to return the foreign payments, we will not abstain for the same reasons I said before. The rest of the points, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10, are specific requests for the recovery of working conditions that are already held before: reduction for majors of fifty-five years, the July charge for the substitutes, the recovery of pre-retail teaching load, the coverage of falls, and, finally, the rest of lost labor rights. Aniria in consonance with the withdrawal that of the current decree of plants that we have previously given. It is a condition that the Rigau Government has been retalant, that it has not yet been granted its return, and that, therefore, if we approve them, we send a very specific and very clear mandate to the Government because it negotiates the mechanisms and the timetable to recover these conditions. Therefore, these points we will vote in favour. There are also the points that you have accepted... – it seems, he did not say, but, for what you have passed us, it seems that you have accepted, from the CUP –, all that we have to understand that they are, because the writing is ready for interpretation, and I think that in these fears we should be a little more curious. However, we do not want to generate doubts in our position. We will rely on the good interpretation and vote for it too. We've just introduced a piece of paper. To thank him for having incorporated it. It is a theme that makes reference, precisely, to what we say: how to pay the best I hope we approve. Because there is the storm – already seen in the previous intervention – clear from the government to accuse the opposition of an ineptness which is the government's own, that it is that it has not been able to bring some assumptions to this Parliament that were valid for the rest of the groups. How is using the mantra of "I can't, because I have extended assumptions, is a point where this Parliament does, and therefore authorizes it to use all the mechanisms of change of credits and extraordinary credits to deal with these expenses. In summary, therefore, we ask for a separate vote from point 2 with its subpoints; point 4 and point 5, which we can vote together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.25.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word "Mrs. Pilar Castillejo", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.26.0	Good morning, President. Members, councillors and trade unions who accompany us today with this motion to return to talk about teaching topics, as we spoke yesterday in the PR which was finally approved jointly and which I believe we should congratulate ourselves on. We're talking again about a subject of teaching, in this case only of..., it's a very concrete topic of labor rights. We'll talk about labor rights. There's a part of the motion that we're fully in agreement with, that's the... – I'll mess it up a little bit depending on how it was written–, that's with the repeal of the plant decree and provision of seats. We, from the first moment that this decree was passed, have already announced that we did not agree, that it raised serious problems of equal access to workers and that, therefore, it seems appropriate to repeal it and try a more consensual wording among all of us. We believe that in order to gain access to the teaching public service, an objective, transparent and capable process must be put in place, which in any case can be done. We can select the staff in an arbitrary way, by means of a curriculum or by means of a personal interview. We also believe that all the workers who develop the task, the work at the educational centres must depend on the Generality. It cannot be that from Education we hire many companies and have many subcontracted companies with lower working conditions than they have many teachers. In this sense, we have also presented a..., there is one of the points that goes in this line, which is that of the topic of substitutions, which we asked to paralyze the pilot plan of substitutions to the IDP, which is currently developing in four territorial services and which by October had planned to extend its remaining territorial services. Penja, this model of this replacement pilot board, of the plant decree, but it is not shown that it improves neither the academic performance nor the knowledge of the student. We believe that teacher replacements... well, they must be covered by full-time or substitute faculty from a work bag and that this scholarship must be ordered according to objective criteria of training and experience. Therefore, it seems very correct to us that it is pulled back this decree of seedlings. Then there is another theme that we have presented, that we say: « Return... – well, that's correct what the deputy of Catalonia was commenting Yes, it is possible to..., respect the writing of our theme; I think it may have lost a little bit the concreteness in the translation, because we did it in Catalan and in this young man appear in the castle, and perhaps in the translation it has lost a little bit the feeling. « Returning to real negotiation with representatives of public education workers is a theme we have presented. What do we say? Every time we talk to the unions, they explain to us that since 2005 the months of negotiation are purely informative. The unions sit up the Administration and explain to them what..., "this is the decrees that we have approved, this is what we will do, this is what we will stop doing, with very little or no bargaining will. We have presented here a theme that is perhaps a bit rhetorical but which points to this direction: to return to real negotiation with the representatives of public education workers. And it's in this line that we think we're voting for this young man, because it's true that there are points that have already been granted at this negotiating table, there are points that may be difficult to compliment because the money is not to put them all on the table, but we believe that with this reason we are giving a support to the teacher, is to give them a boost, is to give them strength to vacate with these proposals, with a broad Parliament rally, to be able to negotiate them at this negotiating table. If really at this table there is a willing negotiator, which is what we want, then we want this young man to give strength to the sector of the teachers to be able to push them. And that's why we're voting for these points. It is true that some have already been granted and that here they are presented again and with other conditions. With this feeling, to give support to the teacher, to give support to this teaching thing, which is what is giving impetus to our public education, is what we will approve these points of the young man. Also... we can't help but say that all these proposals are written only from the point of view of work, that they don't contribute..., from the point of view of the better of the system are clearly insufficient: we don't talk about school map, construction planning, derogation from the decree of directions, nor center autonomy. It's a very concrete point, we focus only on this topic, but we think it's important to work it out. Obviously, she's a young woman who also has her point of cynicism, because when the PP rules it doesn't apply, but we vote for things that they don't put in the way. We know it's a little hard to vote in favour of this motion for this reason, but we think that it must also do even worse to vote for the PP when they voted, for example, against the ILP for education, and well that was done in this Parliament, for other groups. Therefore, we have already said, we will vote in favour of the points of the motion and hope that it will be a point of strength for the teacher workers in negotiations with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.27.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The words of Ms. Susana Beltrán, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.28.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, will advise... well, we, from Ciutadans, will vote in favour of this proposal. Above all – above all – we have set ourselves at the first point of this proposal, which is: "Guarantee, promote independence, motivation and recognition of the teachers so that they can perform their function with excellence. We are at the end of the course, the teachers... I think it is also time, therefore, to recognize from Parliament the work that they do so, so important and that they can rest and start the course with better conditions and with a recognition of this Parliament. And from this point of view, already the first point, so we think you deserve to be pale in the if of this Parliament, because it is true that in the later years the highest rates in the schools, the most teaching hours, the lower wages brought to a teacher's discomfort, which has affected his work and, therefore, has also affected our educational system. And we believe from the city that teaching is a key piece in the whole education system and it's a piece that needs to be taken care of. You have to take care of the many perspectives. I, therefore, the one who is here presents, in this proposal, right? , which is mainly to improve working conditions and, from another point of view, to return the money that is owed to us – as it cannot be in any other way – seems very good to us. But we also believe that this proposal must take into account the object, the ultimate object of caring for the teachers in Catalonia, right? I mean, why do we have to take care of the teachers in Catalonia? Obviously, therefore, because they do their job the best they can. But why else? So, why are you taking care of a jewel, huh? , who are our infants, because they have better prospects in the future. Clearly, that, to this congresswoman, made him think, huh? – not just with the deputy of Ciutadans, but with the sea, right? , of a child who is in school and also as a teacher in a public university, and in a family environment, therefore, surrounded by teachers, who vote for more different political ideologies–, the importance that teachers have in our children, in our children, right? And it's not the same as a teacher, a master who recognizes his work, that a master who has spread out to work and who, more than his personal word, so what we do from within the realm of administration, from within the realm of politics, is still carrying an added discomfort to this master, who must be with whom we consider most important, who are our infants, huh? And that they are the present and future of our society. Therefore, from here, therefore, reinforce and recognize the work they are doing. Besides, I can't help but say it, but, like the mother, there's a moment, I don't know if it's transitory or permanent, when teachers have a lot more importance than the same parents or the same mothers, right? More reason why, then, from here we make the import clear, right? They have, as I said before, in our children. Mirin, this proposal..., it was also said that it is possible to retaliate and it is possible, therefore, to retaliate in other parties, to modify the assumptions; for example, it is possible to retaliate in separatist propaganda. We think or believe that the best ambassadors will be our children, formed and alone, who will explain, therefore, the things that their masters have taught them here and around the world. And finally insist that we gather this young man and others that we have also promoted, to the Commission of Education, or that we will do in the future, that wander in the direction of improving and recognizing the conditions of the masters and the teachers that are here, in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.29.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Maria José García Cuevas – two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.30.0	Thank you, President. Well, our aim is that this motion serves to obtain a just and useful parliamentary resolution with which most groups identify themselves. That is why nothing better than voting for a text incorporating amendments from the other groups, to which I am grateful for their interest. We have accepted the amendments of the UPC which spell out issues of concern to many teachers. We have not accepted your amendment on LOMCE, because, beyond partisan issues, we honestly do not believe that LOMCE prevents this motion from being carried out. We have accepted the Catalonian amendment Yes, it is Pot, because it must be noted that credit extensions can be proposed, and more so there is new revenue not included in the extended budget. But for that, of course, we need the will of the government as a whole; a new draft budget could even be proposed. With regard to your comment on the opposition and extra pay, nothing prevents us from being maximalists in our political action and demanding from the Government what we believe is fair. One thing is the negotiation of the sectoral table and another is the parliamentary sphere, and we believe that one should not limit the other, they are complementary areas. And what you have said, we defend the concerted and the public, and to great honor; it is that they are two compatible and necessary systems, provided that they are, logically, defended from a non-ideological point of view. We have negotiated with the PSC its first amendment, to incorporate the deadline agreed at the sectoral table, and we have not accepted its second amendment, because, having submitted to us a text consistent with the Constitution, with the LEC, also with the LOMCE, we believe that the proposal to repeal the Staff Order cannot be replaced, because at the moment, the issue is that the current decree, in its current drafting and implementation, has led to unfair and very undefendable situations, so we believe that the first step is to try to repeal this decree. We announce that, although this is not approved today by the hesitation of some group, we will continue to struggle to amend this decree in order to avoid the perverse application that is being allowed. In fact, we have already tabled, registered, a motion for a resolution in the Committee on Education, which we can always negotiate. In relation to Junts for Yes, I was going to thank you for your bargaining effort, but as you say everything is a misconception, for I will not say anything, only that you do not confuse not wanting with not being able, you lack more will than power. Finally, remind the Government that its obligation is to comply with all parliamentary resolutions passed by majority, those that negotiate and vote Junts for Yes, and those that do not, too. If the message that was conveyed to us yesterday by his spokesman is that this Government does not intend to comply with anything that I do not vote for, I believe that we have a very strong problem of talent and democratic quality and that it must cause more than one to reflect. Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.31.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Granados?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.32.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.33.0	Point three?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.34.0	Point 3. [[Long break. Josep Maria Forné and Febrer ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.35.0	Mr. Furné?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.36.0	It is for asking for a separate vote from point 1–1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.37.0	Mr. Coscubala, you have asked for separation of points 2, 4 and 5, which you can vote together, have you said, no? Is that it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.38.0	Perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.39.0	Thank you. Mr. Vidal has already said so. Anything else? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, I thank you, Mr. Coscubala. [[Pause.]] A separate vote has been requested on '1', '1', '2', '3', '4' and '5', but '2', '4' and '5' have said that they can vote together. Can you vote together, points 2, 4 and 5? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] So, now we'll vote on point 1; then we'll vote together on 2, 4 and 5; then on, 3, and in the end, the rest of the vote. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's start by voting point one. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes to none, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote the points... together on the 2, the 4 and the 5. The vote begins. It was approved by 62 votes to 60, with 9 abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He forgave; yes: 61 votes in favour, 60 against and 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number three. The vote begins. It was rejected by 55 votes to 60, with 16 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 71 votes to 60, with no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into policies for large people]] [[302-00053/11]] The 14th item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on policies for the great people, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Mr. Raúl Moreno. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please leave the room quickly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.40.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the representatives of the Consell Consultiu de la Gent Gran del Baix Llobregat, who are accompanying us today at this plenary session. In the question we made on 8 June, we gave an extensive account of the reasoning behind the presentation by the Socialist Parliamentary Group of this motion. And I will make a very brief reference to it from the motion that we will approve today and from the papers presented by Junts for the Yes, Catalonia Yes it is Pot and the CUP. We have to say, from the outset, that we are very happy with how the motion presented by my group has remained and that, finally, after many negotiations, both with the deputies and with the members of the government, we have been able to agree that Catalonia will have a law of the great people, and that it will be a proposal of law before the first half of 2017. It has not been easy; this is an important law, which wants to go beyond the one presented to Andalusia and which will be done from the consent and participation of many social agents and representatives of the 1,400,000 people who today form the collection of the great people in Catalonia. All groups have clearly seen this need. And I'm pleased that Junts for Yes added, yesterday, at a later time, accepting a new time frame to process it. But other aspects of the motion and the papers presented can also be highlighted. We urge the government to make more expeditious and more transparent the dependent shippers, because each person knows at what time his/her demand for performance is found. We will recover the universality of the Law from dependence in relation to services linked to residence in a term of six months; it is to say that they can dispose of those people who need it, recovering the order of 2007; something that should serve us to reduce the 6,742 places of residence and public day center without occupying Catalonia. Thank in this sense the accepted CUP message that clarifies the wording of this point. It will be necessary to make public the existing orientated waiting times to occupy the places of residence and day center, the same way that we will know quarterly in which situation the revaluations of the IAPs are found. We are committed to signing the Pact for the Safety of Large Persons in the first quarter of 2017, as well as establishing different educational awareness initiatives and communication media, in addition to a youth volunteering program in the residences, as proposed by the CUP at the presentation. It will also create a consultation phone specialising in maltreatment of large people; the development of a specific training plan for professionals, and that social welfare offices may also specialize in caring for victims of maltreatment. In addition, during the drafting of the law it will be necessary to talk about the need to allocate specific aid and benefits for abused people who require medical treatment. On the issue of housing, large people, victims of abuse and those who suffer from lack of mobility, could be relocated to abandoned housing for the entities financed by the Government of Catalonia. Donem solved a problem more common than it seems: large people who can't even get out of the house to live in housings where they can't place an elevator or just aren't adapted. Real solutions to concrete problems. And, finally, it respects the subject of mobility, a valid booklet will be implemented for all public transport in Catalonia, which will also take into account the entries of the beneficiaries. These are some of the agreements that have been possible to acquit thanks to the deputy Gabriela Serra, of the CUP, to whom we have accepted all its considerations, as well as the one presented by the deputy Gemma Lienas, who refers to having the resources necessary to carry out the initiatives envisaged in this motion. And I want to thank, too, the deputy of Junts for the Yes, David Rodriguez, for his willingness to reach agreement until the last moment, and also the deputy Carmen de Rivera, of Ciutadans, who, even though he did not submit papers, also participated in the debate of this young man. We have said this on many occasions: the Socialists, starting with the dialogue, the negotiation and the pact, want to pay the maximum allowances for the benefit of the assembly of citizens and citizens of Catalonia. We believe that with the approval and development of the points of this motion the future of the great people in our country will move from assistanceism to recognition of rights. It is certainly the best way to recognize his contribution to the construction of Catalonia that we know today. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.41.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. David Rodríguez, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.42.0	Well, thank you, President. Members, deputies, members of the Council of the Grand Gent of the Lower Llobregat, who accompany us today, the motion that occupies us still a very important issue in our society, both for the specifics of the collection to which it refers as for the volume of citizens to which it affects. Although this is already an extensive movement, with a staple of points, it cannot fill the totality of needs and differences depending on various aspects that affect large people in their conjunction. But it seems interesting to me to point out that, despite the fact that we treat people great as a homogeneous whole today, it is obvious that the needs of the great people of Baix Llobregat, in order to pose a case, are not the same as those of a municipality of Solsonès, with a population especially enveloped, with cases of people who see alone at their homes, relatively far from any urban nucleus, and therefore have difficulty accessing the social resources that they may need. And we could talk about other questions of different nature. Addressing such an important collection would take much longer to fill in the totality of its needs. As long as time is right, I'll go to the top. We will give a clear support to the vast majority of points in the House. We believe in the need to resolve the questions raised and there is a willingness on the part of the Government to do so. It is important that all folds continue to reach great consensus in the sensitive areas of our society as we deal with here. At some point we cannot vote in favour, even if we oppose it on account of government responsibility. I understand that from the opposition everything is easier, but the government and the group that supports it face daily with the reality of managing resources that are unfortunately scarce. In the first place, it is necessary to make a law of the great people of Catalonia. It means that there are no cases of laws of this type in other countries and that the only case we know is that of an autonomous law with some results, let's say, a little practical. That doesn't have to be because, yes, therefore, it has to be very clear in the abst and what must be the objectives of this law. But we take the repte, although the term is just, if we want to make a law worthy. We agree with the objective that it pursues point 3 of guaranteeing the economic benefits linked to the residential care service, but we find it difficult at these times to acquire a presuppositional compromise in this sense, and that is why we will abstain. But I appreciate the inclusion of the term of six-months in case it is possible to include it in the 2017 budget, because, as the Member of Parliament who is proposing the motion very well recognizes, without the budget, the totality of the proposal cannot last. On all fronts, in dealing with the future law, you can also face this issue. The young person is also asked to publish the waiting time to access a residence or day centre. I think it's important to note the difficulty involved. That is why we have asked to include in the motion the fact that these times are oriented, otherwise it would be absolutely impossible to predict. First of all, because many people stick to the waiting lists with anticipation and when they don't need them yet. But it's also especially difficult for complexity at the time of forecast when there will be vacancies. We all understand what it means to have seats in a big people's residence, don't we? How can we expect when we return to having free rooms of a residence? I'll leave it here. Another of the delicate points of the movement is that it refers to the availability of housing to cater for large people who have suffered abuse. It must be borne in mind that very often, one of the greatest mistreatments that can be inflicted on large people is, precisely, to remove a person from their surroundings. For this reason, we have asked to include in this point the need for an advance report and a requirement on the part of the social services that endorse the desirability of being able to remove this person from his or her surroundings before inserting him or her into the Valuation Table so that he or she can access a pee; otherwise, instead of producing a benefit as he or she claims, we could cause him or her an added gain, despite the fact that we intend to follow the best of them. In the penultimate point of the young lady, we shall abstain. We share the need for a specific public transport record for large people for various issues, but the most important is the need for an economic valuation that allows us to quantify the resources needed to meet this demand and how to provide them. The Department of Lands and Sustainability is already planning to develop it, but within the deployment of the tariff integration project, which is obviously subject to presuppositional availability. And that's why we don't have the heart to take a major compromise at these times, despite the fact that the will is all there is. Finally – and I finish – we will not vote in favour of it because it wants to create a great lie, which is to say that it can work the same with a presumption that it does not. In point 3 of this motion a time limit is set, because the PSC is aware that it cannot be fully developed without an approved premise. Therefore, an extension of the presumption is not innocent. We won't vote against it because the government has the will to do everything possible to bring this young man forward, but we can't vote in favour of this as long as what he claims is perverse. It is curious that the present Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, contradicting the fact that the month of fever gave its spokesman in this very Parliament when the current assumption was extended. Deia, complaining of the prorogation: « The prorogation that makes..., causes us to swallow the assumptions of 2015 aggravates. And he said that they were worse because he meant that social needs had increased at that time, and with extended assumptions they could not be satisfied. Now they want us to believe the opposite. The fever is said one thing and now the contract is said. On all fronts, I think that today we must congratulate ourselves on our prayers, and we approve of an important motion in which the great people of our country take on the role that corresponds to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.43.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.44.0	Thank you, President. Rita Levi-Montalcini, a very brilliant Italian neurologist, who won the Nobel Prize in Physiology in 1986, despite being a woman, who, moreover, was a person who fought a lot for social justice and for gender equity, when she had more than ninety years of age wrote: "I think that old age should not be seen remembering the past time, but planning its own activity for the time that remains, one day, a_month or years ago, with the hope of being able to realize projects that had not been possible to finish during the young years. I'm sure a lot of great people in Catalonia would agree with this way of focusing on the final trajectory, but sure, too, they would say that in order to be able to holler so alone, they'd be able to lay down some decent living conditions. And it is here, in Catalonia, that we still have much left to make our own the Resolution 46/91 of the United Nations, which says: "Great people must have access to the most basic needs, have the opportunity to work, participate in the decisions of their own life. And I add: "And all those who make reference also to his death. They must be able to access educational and adjunct training programs, live in safe surroundings and adapted to their abilities, and reside in their home as long as possible. That is why we would vote in favour of the motion submitted by the Socialist Party of Catalonia on policies for the great people, because we believe that it is in the sense that it is just. We would have liked the young lady to have a little more ambition and, for example, to make great women. Great women, a collection he saw in the poor, many times, because of having..., or because of having devoted many hours to the family, to taking care of the family without pay for change. Or, after all, having had some paid occupation, they had to ask for a reduction in the hours of family reconciliation, which would not be necessary if men were jointly responsible for the home and the family. We also think that we could have been more incisive in the abuse of big people, since in our opinion, and based on the report that on this topic the Third Social Sector Entity Table was edited, one of the categories of abuse can be attributed to the Government, to the Administration. I quote them two, so see what I mean. Neglect. The example could be to make someone live in a building where there is no elevator, and therefore to condemn this person to not being able to get out of his piss. Another: economic abus. In this case, the example could be co-sponsorship. And it's that co-opting is a cruel administration practice. It's making you pay for something you've already paid for, with the aggravation that if you're rich you're subsidized. And I'm saying that expressly because of Mr. Homs's dirity in the subsidy culture. An example, because it's all clear: for a residential square, the topall price of which is 1.800_euros, a person with an income of 1.000_euros will have to pay 882_euros, which represents 88_percent of his income. In change, a person with $2,500 in income will not have to pay 1,800, which is only a 72_per_cent of his income, and with this he will already have reached the topall. What if, besides, these two people have assets? So, the person with the lowest income will have to pay until he reaches the topall, while the rich one, who is already at the topall, will not have to pay anything of his..., nothing will be left of his assets. They get where the subsidy is, don't they? We have only made one single point to the motion, and it is to urge the Government to use all the mechanisms for modifying the extraordinary credits and credits provided for in the 2015 Law on Presuppositions and the Catalonia Law on Public Finance, in order to be able to have the resources necessary to finance the measures and policies approved in this motion. I'm telling you this before they don't let us know that we didn't approve the assumptions, which we remember – and so much! – but it seems that you do not remember the possibilities provided for the law to deal with expenses arising from motions such as this or other contingencies. Finally, I would like to point out that, despite the fact that you sold the assumptions as well as the social ones, we could actually say that they were assumptions arranged only because they seemed to be. They were presuppositions made without transparency; for example, when they barred information as own, concerted and deprived places without distinction, or when they included services that are not for dependent persons; or when they were based on traps, as they included in the indicators concepts that do not have anything to do with the Law of Dependence, for example, places in residential assembly centres for persons with mental illness, but I would like to remind them that not all persons with mental illness are dependent, and make assumptions that are unrelated, many times, activity and assumption. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] But I have no doubt that the government already knows that. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.45.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word "Mrs. Gabriela Serra", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.46.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone and everyone. Above all, thank you very much, Raúl Moreno, because you have made a great effort to try to articulate all the different proposals that have come along and because you have done so patiently and won. And that's always nice – it's really nice. Thank you. I think we have a good..., we think we have a good proposal, and that, obviously, as it has already been thought, we could have added many more things, but I think that precisely point 1 of this proposal, which is to present a bill of law of the great people, is what will allow us to incorporate all the things that have still remained in the way and that are still in the way. I think it's important because, above all, if we were to make those who are the most satisfied with us, I would say, apart from all those who have to see the maintenance of life, all those who have to see the essential and indisputable material part because people can live in full..., I would highlight point 7, which is the promotion of awareness and prevention of educational policies; I would highlight implementing a young volunteering program in residences, and I would highlight communication media campaigns, also, to promote respect and value. I think it's important; it's very important, because everyone... – and the great people are people, despite the fact that the policies of the free market have instrumentalized, crucified, and when they no longer serve the shooting to the paper, as if the great people were to use and lenght – but, I mean – and returning to the driving thread that they had – people, all of us, have three basic needs: the maintenance of life, dignity and freedom. And therefore, it is important that our young man, who in a world where everything is valued for what he has, not for what it is, where everything is valued for the novelty, for the "newness, for if it is new, the "old" word – the "old" word – today we are all talking about the great people, but for a long time we have been talking about the "old people". That's what it's for, that's what it's for, that's what it's for, that's what it's for, that's what it's for, that's what it's for, that's what it's for, that's what it's for. I remember perfectly well when a few years ago, there was..., for labor questions we had to bring a lot of people, people from the Americas, from Llatina America, and they came to Barcelona and said: "How lucky you are, how many grandparents you have! You're going to die, with you! , and it was true, because when I went to these countries– Colombia, Guatemala, Salvador, Peru –, you say : « I do not see, of great people. And they looked at us with envy, and said to us: "How many grandparents do you have! Why? Because for them, the grandparents and the grandmothers, or so on, the great people – I was in a time – they were respectable, esteemable people, people who deserved tenderness, who deserved to be careless, that the wrinkle is beautiful, that they deserved to take them into account, that they deserved to ask for advice, that they deserved – that they deserved – to consider them well and well. On the other hand, here, disjointedly, this commercialization that we have of our society, this absence, sometimes, of values, that we have lost, of the great people, more quickly, in general, we have not made a pes, we have not made a charge, we have not done something that is not much in the day; it is no longer there to ask it to the bird, what will tell you, now we ask it on the internet, eh? He's not there anymore. "Let's go to Google, go and go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, Therefore, I think these points, Raúl, I thank you, that you have included them – two already there – the one you have posed, because it seems to me that it is important. Our great people, not only, and essentially, need accessibility, not just good" lives, not only a good deal, not just..., but they need, above all, affection, tenderness, recognition, and I think that all this will be fears that we will have to discuss when we discuss the project of great people. Because it's not just a money problem, it's an attitude problem, it's a recognition problem, it's a problem to keep in your fair measure what our great people represent. And to end, say, simply, perhaps, the day that we stop seeing the great people as a load, as this merchandise, this instrument that is no longer useful, that no longer produces, maybe that day we have advanced a lot and it will be when we can say that simply the world is composed of a lot of people– of a lot of people–, among them, the great people. "Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.47.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mrs Carmen de Rivera, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.48.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members of Parliament, people of the public who accompany us, first of all, to say and announce that Citizens will support this motion, which is a necessary motion, is a just motion, and therefore also a timely one. We want to thank Mr Raúl Moreno for presenting this motion and we have the opportunity to discuss – to debate – with calmness on the problem of the great people. And what does this motion propose? For one very important thing, that is that a law be made, that the great people have their own regulations, that it collects all the regulations that is dispersed by different texts and legal bodies and is based on what will be the law of the great people of Catalonia. That is, that older people have their own status, as do young people, as do many other groups that have been given the importance, the prevalence to discuss their specific problems, the issues that affect and interest large people. Naturally, this law will require the consensus of all parliamentary groups, which has been present here in all these interventions. We all agree on the need and the importance, and this proposal also brings to the fore the mismanagement, the bad administrative practices that have been carried out so far and that will be remedied thanks to the commitment that has been obtained by negotiating this motion among all groups, of all those files that have to do with dependent persons and also with regard to how are waiting lists to go to residences, where there is less waiting list or where you can go before in a residence, in one locality or another, because the council has undertaken to publish a list disaggregated by centres and by populations of waiting time that there is to access and has also committed to publish on the web the stage of the files, of course protecting all kinds of right to privacy, but that the people who process a file know at what stage they are at and when, at least, they will begin to collect their benefit. Also something essential for the collection of large people, which is to end waiting lists. In the economic sphere, something as necessary as it is to put the order of 2014 out of order and that many people who need it regain the guarantee of access to the economic benefits linked to the residential care service. And what is more important, by providing it economically, making it possible for this in the current budgetary circumstances to be possible. But what is really important about this great group of older people is the need to form and raise awareness of society in general and young people in particular about recognition, gratitude and solidarity towards our older people who have played a fundamental role, especially in the crisis that we have suffered and that continues – and continues – to play a very important role. Finally, and it is very important in this motion and which will also be addressed in this future law, it is to take all those preventive and protective measures against abuse, encouraging empathy, solidarity, we have said, since..., and of course, the volunteering of young people, since only from an ethical perspective and of political and legal commitment can one plant face and curb the abuse that many of our older people suffer, whether in the form of negligence, physical or sexual or psychological abuse. The adoption of this motion is a great step, it is a start, and we hope that the Government will comply with what is proposed in this motion: to present the bill of the great people in the terms of the agreement that has been reached today. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.49.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, there is the words of Mrs. Marisa Xandri of the Popular Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.50.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members, Members, Members of the public who are with us today, well, we all know that in Catalonia, like the rest of Spain and Europe, we have an enveloped society, basically because the birth rate indexes, so it is the ones who are and because the hope of life grows more and more. And this is the reality that we have now, today, and what is expected to be in the medium and long term. Therefore, governments must be aware of this reality and apply policies that respond to the situations we find ourselves in. And for what he refers to this young man, he supposes to make life easier for more than 18_percent of the Catalan population who are more than sixty-five years old. With this young man there is a series of problems that in the last legislature a servant has already exposed in this Faristol, but two years later you see that little, therefore, has changed or advanced. Therefore, to thank the Socialist Party for putting the table back on the table, to discuss these questions that directly affect this collection, that it has also suffered and suffers the consequences of the economic crisis, although it is true that in many families, in many cases, the thought or the students of the greatest have implied a breath for the child and grandchildren. Therefore, the effort they have made and continue to make the greatest of our society, from an economic point of view, but also in the transmission of values, has already been said here, right? We all learn from his experience, from the good advice of our opinions; therefore, to say that this effort deserves the utmost respect on the part of the whole society, and above all the support of the administrations in the different areas that we will now vote on in this motion. That said, I take this opportunity to lament, to lament and denounce the anti-democratic and intolerant attitude of some who, after seeing the electoral results of this diumenge, wished the death of the old people who voted for the People's Party, through the social networks. I'm sorry and I reported it. Let's hope, for the sake of all of us, that people like this never get to rule our country. Fortunately, in democracy a government gives citizens votes and not disqualifications and insults to Twitter and Facebook. Going back to the young man, like I said, right? ,continue without solving'selves' problems that had been there for years. Waiting lists to access a residence or day center, and there are still thousands of empty places in the territory. Let's see if Congressman Moreno is able to withdraw the Juntes compromise for the Yes because, as point 4 says, a timetable is set for the occupancy of the current public and concert day and public places that exist today, with the aim of reducing the current waiting lists. Only a schedule of occupation is required, not so alone as to be occupied. Therefore, we will see – we will see – what is Juntes' response to the Yes. Another question; another question which is also fundamental and which the Socialist Party has negotiated with Junts for the Yes, the issue of speeding up the administrative processing of dependent shippers that allows the dependent who has a right to a benefit to know the term in which he will begin to repress it. In Catalonia there are several thousand people who are expected from the department to value the degree of dependence. And that, sadly, in some cases this delay supposes that great dependents never get to know it, because they live before. It cannot be that what should be determined in three months ended in years. Another question, the subject of maltreatment, basically to end this sacre that we talk about very often when it comes to women or children, right? But it's a question that we have oblivion many times when we talk about great people. Maltreatments that they suffer between the family's own nuclei, to the residences, and here there can be no red lines and all are to be activated is mechanisms of prevention and action. Zero tolerance in this sense. And in this case, and in the wake of the future law of the great people, which is supposed to begin to deal with 2017 and which we are glad that this is the case, Congressman Moreno has made a deal with Juntes for the Yes that he says "will study the need for compensation, aid and special economic benefits for the great mistreats, such as, such as... He will already explain to me, Mr Moreno, which compromises – that is, because from here the law comes, so many days, many months, and when we talk about mistreats I believe that this cannot be delayed. Therefore, this point which seemed to us to be of use has been diluted with this transaction. Well, I just said that the People's Party will give support to the movement, which – I still have to say – I think it has lowered a little bit, so its initial proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.51.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Mr. Raúl Moreno. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.52.0	Thank you, President. Well, since it's only two minutes, I'll be quick. Many thanks for the interventions of the group and parliamentary groups. To Mr. David Rodriguez, on the subject of the law. He knows that we have been talking about this motion for a few days and that the problem basically came to accept, on behalf of Juntes for the Yes, the fact of having a law of the great people, and the fact of keeping it in the terms we set, and we were able to negotiate that the term was the semester of the year 2017, but, for other proposals, surely two or three years from now we will start the law's journey. So, I'm glad you finally could be that way, as well as the last hour. On the subject of services linked to residence, you said: "No, it is the Member who recognizes that there is no way that there is a new presumption. If we want to recover ENPs it is necessary to have a presumption, because the current one is insufficient. If there's no presumption, it's because the government didn't have the capacity to approve it, it didn't have the necessary recovery, but, still, we do admit Catalonia's emena. Yes, it can because they're right, because it's true. Because the Government, with the instruments it has at its disposal and the capacity to grant it the decrees of extension, can extend the tickets and devote resources to social spending, giving response to the needs existing. Other topics: waiting lists. We only ask that if a relative of any of us has to enter or go to a wise residence what is the waiting time of that residence. Are you complex? It's complex, but it would have to be normal, to know if the family member could put him to the residence that I have next to the house or I have to go to Vic, because he'll surely be able to get there in a short time, won't he? On housing issues, it's been a long time. On the issue of public transport, of course it's complicated, and that's why we don't have time limits. We have to study this subject, but it is high time we had a common public transport target in Catalonia. And, finally, Mrs. Lienas, if you find some things missing about women's issues you might have made the move, but these points also come from the record of the third sector table and the document that we did after this act. And, therefore, we would be open to these new contributions in proper motions. Thank you all. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.53.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] [[Marta Rovira and Vergés ask to speak.]] Mrs. Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.54.0	Vote separate from points 3, 15 and 16.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.55.0	The separate vote on points 3, 15 and 16 was requested. Can they vote together? [[Pause.]] So, if it seems like it, we start voting these three points separately and then we vote the rest of the vote, okay? [[Pause.]] So, we are voting together now points 3, 15 and 16. The vote begins. It was adopted by 72 votes to 60. We'll vote for the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. Adopted by 132 votes in favour. [[applause]] , head against and head abstention. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the local world]] [[302-00054/11]] The 15th item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on the local world, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. In order to expose her, Ms. Eva Martínez has the word. [[Pause. Widow's remorse.]] I pray to the deputies and deputies who come out quickly, please. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.56.0	All right, thank you, President. Members, Members, Counsellor, well, first of all I want to give thanks to all Members of the different groups with whom I have had the opportunity to speak, enrich the House and reach agreement; I want to give thanks. And I also want to thank the call I got yesterday from Constellera Borrás, with which she apologized for her attendance today at this plenary. I had a lot of hopes of being in this Moció on the local world but he's in Brussels. Well, I really appreciate the call. The motion presented is a clear opportunity to advance in the gathering and recognition of the work done for the local world, and to alleviate the lack of resources that the Government of the Generality has had in the last five years with the assemblies of Catalonia. It is an opportunity to demonstrate that the fact that our President of the General and the Economic Vice-President have been mayors – like many deputies and deputies, that they are also mayors and mayors, and directors and directors, or that they have been, like Councillor Borràs – is a differential fact, and that in this way progresses towards a real autonomy of the assemblies, which can lead democratically, in the framework of broad competitions and with collaboration and institutional loyalty to other governments. Collaboration and joy we haven't found in the last few years, in the Government of the Generality or in the Government of the State. It is necessary to allege the debt that the Government of the Generality has with the assemblies of Catalonia. A debt that's not just real, but it's a moral debt. I have already explained in the question, that there is a real debt, which has to be paid in conjunctions, but also a moral debt of all the resources that have not been activated in the last few years. I don't have to repeat it. It is the PUOSC that has been approved but it has not stalled, the reduction of the plans of occupation of the SOC, the paralysis of programs such as the Law of Barrels, the policy of urban rehabilitation, the Law of better urbanizations, etcetera. We have to think that in 2010 the Generalitat transferred 1,922_million euros to the joints and that in the presupposition of 2015 this dropped to 1,193_million euros. Therefore, the download is brutal. We need to remind the deputies that Catalonia is a vertebrae and cohesion through its municipalities, and we need to take over and provide resources for 948 assemblies. The motion presented wants to place the municipalities at the center of the agenda and we believe that this shared objective must be translated into resources for the local world, which can be articulated in many ways, as reflected in the motion in points 1, 2 and 3, with the recognition and payment of the outstanding debt; in point 4, with the commitment of new grant calls, as necessary as the Barrel Law or the Urban Law. We did not talk about the Barley on repeated occasions and, in fact, a new call had been announced for the councillor, but the Urbanization Bill had her sleeping in the dreams of the righteous. And we think it's a good opportunity to wake her up and get the best of many territories. With point 5, we are increasing local and regional cooperation and also for decentralised municipal entities. Point 6, with a new plan of works and services, which is the tool to allow the reversal in all municipalities. That's why we've accepted Catalonia's motto Yes, it's Pot that makes the criteria change and that these adapt to the needs that have expressed to us many together that the criteria prioritize the investment related to social and urban cohesion and equip it with a contribution, with a minimum of 600_million euros. It may be thought that PUOS is a program of legislature – well, of a normal four-year legislature – and that it is paid when certifications take place. Therefore, we believe that a contribution of 500_million is realistic and that with good financial management and, above all, the priorities of Catalonia can be achieved. Point 7, equipped to collect employment promotion and economic activation actions. Therefore, more resources to the local world and less presuppositional victimism. More resources, because I insist on the idea that local administrations manage well, they manage so well that they are now able to generate surplus in municipal accounts, but this surplus cannot be spent on improving services for the existence of unfair standards such as the Law of Stability approved for PP and Convergence and Union. In this sense, the motion calls on the Government of the State to repeal the Law of Stability and the Law of Administrative Rationalization, but it is also necessary to finish the dues here in Catalonia. The State approved the year 2006, two years later we have not been able to approve a law of local governments and a law of local finance. Other autonomous communities have passed laws that have protected local entities from the decentralizing attack of the PP and LRSAL government. Well, I can't wait; we put thread in the needle, we listen to the local world, the professionals, the municipalist entities, but let's do it now. We are making proposals and making the debate concrete. Finally, we must also work for the best of the efficiency of the Administration and, above all, gather together with less resources. Well, we work together, we improve cooperation in the local world and we approve measures to support municipal investments and, above all, we increase transfers to the local community in a decisive way. Local autonomy with resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.57.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, there is the words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.58.0	Thank you, President. The truth is that she is a young man who is known to be presented by a mayor and that the people we have government responsibilities in the municipal sphere, so we share, almost, in their totality. Eight years later, there has been a huge conflict between administrations over the lack of resources. Brussels "squeezes the Spanish government, the Spanish government "squeezes with the deficit limit the autonomous communities and the autonomous communities have also tightened the joints, in some cases more than in others. Even so, there have also been relations between different levels; for example, the assemblies have very well rejected the supplier plan that allowed them to pay suppliers who were two years old, two years old and a half, who did not collect, on behalf of the Government of Spain; and this action was well repudiated. It is true that the LRSAL and the law of estabilisation have raised difficulties at the gatherings, but – then I will explain it – we believe that it was necessary and that it was positive. With the materials that are needed and can be defined, in the future, a different mark, but we believe that in the years we have lived, it was necessary. The head of the autonomous community, however, in Spain, has such a complex relationship with the assemblies as the case of Catalonia. And that's what they've been studying to prove. What's going on? Look, I have the feeling that the parties that the government collects, that they have a huge implantation in the countryside and interior and that they have very many difficulties at the moment in the gatherings of more than thirty or forty thousand inhabitants, with some exceptions, have been parties that have had a certain allergy to municipalism; to municipalism as a way of hearing politics in Catalonia. When you're in a national construction process, as you say, you're refractory to any other alternate power you're shadowing. And this has caused constant payoffs, tortuous relationships, and, I repeat, the ones we are ruling – in this case, my own – a provincial capital like Tarragona..., absolutely Kafkian situations have been experienced. So, I think this young man, who will finally have the harvest at most points by Juntes for the Yes..., I think it's a good thing they do, and so much good can be a change of attitude. We've submitted a couple of papers. One has not been accepted, where we asked for a greater capacity of the joints to manage the resources of the tourist tax, it was considered to be another topic. There's absolutely no re. Yes, another one has been accepted, from the Chambers. And, therefore, the rest of the motion practically – except for two points, which I said I would comment on the final part of my intervention – is impeccable. Reconnaissance of debts? Of course I do. Payment calendars at the joints? Of course I do. Transparency? So much. More local inversion? Of course. And, in its initial format, what gave the motion was: "Negotiate with the Government of Spain changes in the LRSAL and the Law of Stabilization. And we, these points, which are 10th and 13th, were willing to pick them up. But, of course, it has become, that, abrogation. And here's a problem. I repeat, everything can be negotiated. We are not locked either in the Law of Stability or in the LRSAL, for a reason: do you hear that the Government of Spain is legitimately trying to renegotiate the deficit with Brussels? So, yeah, it's legit. It is also legitimate for autonomous communities to seek to renegotiate the deficit with the Government of Spain. And, therefore, it is totally legitimate for the assemblies to seek a different _mark, now that it is beginning to emerge from the crisis. But, of course, this habit of repealing, of repealing it all immediately... plus, when the ballot boxes have said all the contrary, we understand – we understand – that it is excessive and that it does not contribute to generating a better_mark for the assemblies, but all the contrary. Therefore, collecting at the 90_per_cent of the motion, and at points 10 and 13, to the text that has finally been processed, we cannot give them support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.59.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.60.0	Thank you, President. Well, it's always nice to be able to manifest in this room what is happening in the local world and who are the priorities that we have each of the political organizations and parliamentary groups respect local policies. And, as you know, I suppose, on behalf of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, our priority is especially social policies, and these are developed especially from the local world. And, therefore, what we need is to demand all the support and most, from the higher administrations, in this case, of the Government of Catalonia, not to these social policies of proximity that are fan of the local world. The other of our priorities, at the same time as the circumstances of the last years with the local world, is that the Generality recognizes all the mistreatment that it has done to the local world. On one side, with the debt; that, as a minimum, it recognizes this debt, the formal recognition of this debt and the realist commitments of payment; therefore with a calendar, of this debt. You see, not only direct support parties to the local world, such as the PUOSC or the Local Cooperation Fund, but especially the Generality's competitions, many, precisely social policies, which are then exercised from the local world and are not being paid. And another of the priorities, for our part, is that we do not forget that there is an architecture to build, in this case, structures of state, better said, due to pending, as to this construction of institutional architecture in the local world, which continue to hang for years. And I speak precisely, concretely, of the law of local governments and the law of local finance. The law of local governments, if you recall, made a proposal to us by the government but to the last legislature, so badly that it was necessary to move from up to down and ended up frozen in this Parliament, and from the law of local finance we carry many and many of the accumulated promises and complacent. So, it's still hanging. And, besides, we also need to manifest that we are not enough and we are sick of the liquidity problems of the higher administrations in the local world being centrifuged, of the problems of how to respond to the needs of the citizenry and of never being centrifuged of resources. But yes, we also need to talk about the State, those points that we have already seen clearly that the People's Party will not, obviously, not support it; these points of ours that have been incorporated into this motion, to demand that no funding be given to the local administrations and, therefore, that those laws that have made this offence to the Generality, but also to the local world, is derogable, but also that the horrific ARSAL that is still alive and trying to carry out the local world's competitions is removed. All this because municipalism continues to feel the guarantee of social cohesion, equal opportunities, innovation, sustainability policies and because we want the assemblies to continue to lead these public policies, can be strengthened administrations, both in competition and in resources, as in size, as in political paper. In this sense, all the ideas that we have presented in this motion that were trying to enrich a text that already satisfied us..., we appreciate that some of these ideas have been incorporated, both directly as transactions, to prioritize, therefore, this social reversal, to defend these local powers again, to boost the Generality of Catalonia, from this Parliament, that this construction of the institutional architecture of the local world in Catalonia, but also to ask for it to the State that derogates..., to the new Congress of Deputies, that derogates those laws that have committed so much in competition with resources in the local world. Tell him that we will support all points of this Socialist Party movement, except for a point they have incorporated and a transaction with Citizens in which we will abstain, basically because we understand that he is not close. It is a point in which it is asked that a study be made of administrative duplication and the efficiency of administrations. This, precisely, must be the object of the law of local governments and the law of local finance, and we ask that this is done urgently, in the processing of these two laws. And so we put it in these two points that have been trading with the PSC at a much faster time than the one that puts the built-in Citadans puzzle. And, therefore, by consistency with what has been incorporated from our point, in point 12 of Ciutadans we will abstain. We therefore call for a separate vote, Madam President, on this point 12 of the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.61.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr. Marc Sanglas, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.62.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, in any case, I add to the clarifications that have been made previously in the sense of putting in value the work that is done to the local world. It is very important that women and men work in this country, day by day, these nearly eight thousand people who work with the will to improve their environment, to improve the quality of life of the community to which they live and belong. And, therefore, from this point of view, the recognition..., a recognition that has already made the advice during the inquiry, and, therefore, put into value this work that has been done, day by day, and which is done, day by day, at the gatherings. At that first entrance of the majority of the city, their access to the Administration and, therefore, why these men and women pose face and pose family names to problems. And, therefore, they are not just problems, but they are people to help. And, therefore, from this point of view, the local administration understands that it is the most... area, better, to give solution. And, therefore, from this point of view, we understand that the more we can give, the more autonomy we can give to the locals, the better it seems to us. Miri, I would like to clarify some..., also, and placing this motion in the political and economic context that we are in, someone was talking about "presuppostary victimism, So, listen, look, I would talk about" economic choice, which is what we really have in this country respect the Government of the State, the figures that, let's say, are appreciable, from the point of view in the sense that the Government of the State has offended, has systematically incomplete the agreements that have been reached with Catalonia and, therefore, from this point of view, has tended to a situation of economic concern. And I don't have to go too far. We had a few statements last week from someone who said that they had sunk public health. Therefore, this is not the fruit of management, but the fruit of bad intent. And, therefore, from this point of view, there was an active plan in the will to deepen the Catalan economy, and, therefore, also to rebuild, obviously, its joint ventures. Therefore, there is no presuppositional victimism. To say that the Juntes per el Si Group holds most rural mayors seems to me to be a lack of absolute knowledge – absolute knowledge of what is the municipal reality of this country. Therefore, statements of this type seem to me to be about or basically unaware of and demerit the will, let us say, that the men and women, both of Convergence and Republican Unity and Left, who govern many together, most of the assemblies of this country, of very small size, but also of very large size, from the point of view of the number of inhabitants. So it seems to me that it would be good to look at the city map. In any case, and entering directly into the movement, we have presented a sequence of messages in an attempt to improve this movement. In many cases, we share this; in some cases, technical improvements have been made. We think that in the sphere of the debt, that it is one of the areas that this young man has, in recognition is paying himself, surely it is not paid the fast enough that we want, but that in any case, he is paying himself, he is facing the debt that we have the joints, there has been an exercise of transparency and clarity indicating – and the web of transparency clearly indicates – which is the debt pending with each of the joints. In any case, what we can't deal with is a calendar... so from this point of view, we can't support this proposal to make a calendar, as we're limited by the FLA. First, we don't get the money, and then the same FLA sets a set of limitations that places the joints at the bottom of the entities to be charged. So, when we, when the generality has enough resources, that's what it does. And, therefore, in an attempt... – and the councillor explained the last day – in an attempt, above all, to help those gatherings with major presuppositional difficulties, and, in any case, this plan has been evaluated and, therefore, from this point of view, it is working. We have come to commitments – and, therefore, let's say, from this point of view, it seems to us that it is satisfactory – in the year 2017. So, if there is..., at the time of the 2017 presupposition, we could also include some of the forecasts that were already planned for this 2016 presupposition, which did not have the chance to continue its parliamentary processing in this Parliament, but which, in any case, we commit..., the Government is committed to working to make it possible in 2017. I'm already saying, from the start, something that we don't agree with and we can't agree with because we seem to be inverse that at these times there are 500_million, when you're talking about the government of the generality's debts in the joints that claim a local investment plan, that it's certainly not what they require, at these moments, the joints, do not require investment in the local area, but help, certainly in the area of development, let's say, about the social aid area, that it's what it's been looking for, and it seems that it's what the government has done at these times, and so it's working there. For what it does to all the technical support..., forward. I mean, all the proposals that go this way, we've tried to improve the reviews that there are, and therefore, from this point of view, this. The political support, which also claims through the statements of the repeal of the LRSAL, of the elaboration of the law of estabilitation, forward. And, therefore, they have our support. The government has always stood at the side of gatherings in this sense. And for what it does with the law of local governments, which we believe is necessary, from this point of view, we understand that it is absolutely necessary, but it seems to us that the terms that are marked in the same young man are inexhaustible. Therefore, this point of view, want to show our support in the need to approve the law of local governments and the law of local finance, we will abstain because we think that the quarter..., establishing the first trimester of 2017 is distressed. We think that it is necessary to make the convention of municipalities and from the convention of municipalities to elaborate a draft law agreed together with the municipalities so that we do not feel...., let us say, that there are drafts of law that have not been previously worked with the local world. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.63.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Joan García of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group will continue to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.64.0	Yes, President... MPs, MPs... Mrs Martínez, agraím – agraím – your proposal to talk about the local world. We are grateful to be able to talk about the local world..., a local world that is patenting these last years of crisis, but I have already commented to you, when we have not spoken, therefore, that this young man – all that is an opportunity – is still a little short, because in the end he is only dealing with a part of the local world. Basically, you are talking about the instruments that can be used to fill the funding gap of local administrations, but they do not go into the structural resolution of this deficiency, nor in measures that could imply a point of inflection for this harsh reality. As we have announced, we agree to defend the recovery of instruments such as the Barrel Plate or plans similar to PUOSC, or the payment, obviously, of the debt that the Generality has with the joints, and that, therefore, we have already indicated to it that we will give support to a good part or a good part of the proposals that they make, basically because we have also defended ourselves at the joints where we have representation, that they are many in Catalonia. But of all the measures referred to, I want to talk – because everything has been practically talked about – about three aspects. And I'll start with one of them, I think it's the most important. To us, it seems especially difficult the debt that the Generality has with the assemblies; a debt recognized, in response to this parliamentary group, of 700_millions – all that there are figures that give in that they are superior to these 700_millions, but I will take the answer, only, that the Government has given and that the Councillor of Governance has given – ; a debt that supposes, for example, that there are joints that can not reach to help parents and seas that do not have sufficient resources to bring their children to a school in Bressol, or that we have a public space in many municipalities of our society, of our community, a public space in a state of very important and unacceptable degradation. In fact, this supposes that the Catalan assemblies have difficult problems in exercising their skills and even more so than the Generality itself gives them the irresponsibility to do so without adequate funding. She was talking to the counselor... and I know it's hard that you're not here, because I'm gonna ask her a couple of times, but I think it's important that I've told her. The councilwoman spoke to the question before this motion about the need for us to look at another place– to another place– and to forget about this extreme situation, again seeking in the theory of the external conspiracy what is an absolute incapacity, what is an absolute inability to manage and a hard depriorization of the needs of the local world towards the obsession, we could call that "patriot", of the Lady Borrás to use the local world as an instrument of confrontation and division more than the process. In fact – in fact – in one of the points that we have made, and that the PSC has not accepted, we proposed ending one of these, say, political colonizations of the institutions of all Catalans. And I'll comment because I think it's important. We did so through the petition for the change of management of the School of Public Administration of Catalonia, a school that forms the local civil servants; it also forms the local civil servants. Well, this proposal that has not been accepted is inspired, in fact, by a few words that he made and brought the lady counsel to us in a committee and in response to this Member. In response to this Member, on the election of Mr. Colomines as head of the school, he simply commented that he states that through the School of Public Administration what he wants is to give tools to build a new state is not something that only Mr. Colomines says, but is also a priority of this Government. We think it's an impressive view of how public school, which has to form values like political neutrality, is assaulted and occupied ideologically for this government. And, therefore, it blushes a lot with this vision of what must be a government and some institutions of all. Therefore, for this moment, we believe it was important to comment on it. We also need to comment, and I will do so very quickly, that we believe it was a good option, so to present the creation of a commission where it can be moved or, at least, discuss the duplications that we have in our community, administrative duplications. He's already told us about Catalonia. Yes, he may be abstinent. I think it was a good option to discuss this, beyond the law of local governments, which we also believe is necessary, and so we don't really understand how sometimes a series of regeneration speeches can be made when, when they have the opportunity to vote in favour, so they don't vote, in principle. In short, we want to open a debate, we believe that we need to be radically reformist about the local world, we believe in the autonomy of the local world, we believe that there is a series of reforms that need to be made, and in this we will work both in Catalonia and in the rest of Spain. We simply offer the possibility, beyond what has been adopted today, of being ambitious on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word Mireia Boya, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.66.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. It is together its age of being more valuable than it is. And I think that, in this, you are as independent as you are not, and you will agree. And, therefore, we need to protect them, we need to provide them with the necessary resources, and we need to avoid the current centralizing, bureaucratic offensive that being a Spanish State is pulling up these joints. We recognize that and a debt; we all know that the debt is not being paid, we recognize it, and we want it to be recognized that the debt is being made unlawful and that it is being taken away together. We want, so much so, that it is appreciated that it is lacking in financing to the consequences of all the services that are of municipal competence. As far as parliamentary groups are concerned, they still do not want to acknowledge what was the cause of it, what was the basis of it, what was the root of the acute problem of lack of funding that caused the warning of our assemblies. That is why we want to denounce here some of the attitudes that have been repeated in different parliamentary groups and that we are already starting to be tired of denouncing them here. In the first place, we want to condemn ethos cynicism, which we have said many parts: condemnation ethos cynicism of desire that in any case it is responsible for all the aquero, all the decisions that affect with its great form now local autonomy, joints, even the Generality of Catalonia; it is responsible for the economic uplifting of these joints, it is responsible for the impossibility of even inversions to municipal level, to invest in the services of people, it is responsible for the worse she who has never written herself before, that I was LRSAL; and if, we want to derogate her. We condemn, too, political opportunism of those who speak of a theme of great sensitivity, of your nauta sensitivity, that they detest it was problematic, but that they are unable to recognize which cause it was, it was the basis of this problem, that he did not know that it was action of the Spanish State, that it was not necessary to resort to what was the Generality can pay and that it owed joints. We were denouncing, so much so, that he was co-responsible for fine political formations, who want to apologize to a "who can't do this," and that I blamed the demons for the CUP, who didn't approve of it. Well, there's a lot of guilt, but they're doing it; it's years before it was CUP I don't think there's any incidence in municipal debt. Therefore, it is our responsibility to denounce it, because they are still political accomplices to many of the imposed policies of the State. And when we had come to the end of the year, we did not accept it. And you went slightly: "So, while we do not have a proper record, before the intervention and economic of the Government of Catalonia on behalf of the Government of the Spanish State, this Parliament urges the Government to demand from the State the resources, now manifestly insufficient, necessary to meet the needs required by the finances of the Government and to guarantee the quality of the public services that lend to the citizenship of our country. How can you not agree to an acute analysis, it seems reasonable, of the causes, then the basis of this problem? How can you not admit that being apart from guilt in debt of joints? And how can you not agree that there is a basic need for joints to be managed? We do not understand, and therefore it was the only cause that we can tell him that, apart from his enormous irresponsibility, he intended unconsciousness of which he was the basis, was root, problems. And there's no such thing as this. When it comes to urbanizations. Yeah, and a deuteronomy, for what? Because many joints have apostatized for urban doll: built, built, built, and now it turns out that basic services that fit in here do not only have to pay them. So, we didn't have to build so much, we didn't have to apostate for real estate doll. I'm done. We agree with many points, but we are voting against or abstaining from any questions that are neither realistic nor responsible, because we think that it has already been for the policy of such a sensitive and important issue in the municipalities. We do not want to promise which moon we do not have, and it was the only way we have to have this moon and give it together legitimately and it was unilateral disconnection and it was our own exit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.67.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Eva Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.68.0	Well, I want to come back... thank you, President. I want to thank again the predisposition and the gains of all the deputies to bring this young man forward, and that, really, then, there was a lot of agreement. Together for the Yes we've been able to... well, we've accepted item 3 and we've traded items 1, 4, 5, 7 and 9, that's, like, 60 percent of the vote. I think that this is a step forward, and that we regret that we did not agree, so, in very important points for us, as it was to make a payment schedule for the meetings – all groups have also expressed the problem that it represents for the meetings not having this payment schedule – and, then, the reversal that people and cities need, and that for the last five years has not been made. With the other groups, with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, we have accepted items 1, 2 and 8, and we have traded 5, 6 and 7. We also traded item 3 of the PP and the 4 of Ciutadans, which we believe reinforce, and much, the good efficiency of the Administration, and the better. I believe that there is presuppositional victimism, and the government has not had the capacity to approve a presupposition for 2016, but it does have the capacity to make modifications. This is demonstrated every day in many gatherings. But, at the level of the Generality, I think that, well, this victimism is being abused; it could be advanced, and, I'm saying, I think you should take a step forward so that you can make this payment schedule. And after an investment of 500_millions to four years seems realistic to me; with a good management of the public resources of Catalonia, improving the tickets, reviewing the expenses, it can be achieved. We've already said, there's a real debt with the joints, but also a moral debt of everything that hasn't happened in the last five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.69.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Call it a vote. [[Marc Sanglas and the sewers ask to speak.]] Mr. Bloods.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.70.0	Yes, President; for a separate vote on points 2, 6, 12, 14 and 15.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.71.0	2, 6, 12, 14 and 15. Okay. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.72.0	Yes; to ask for a separate vote on points 2, 6, 10, 11 and 13.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.73.0	All right, all right, all right, all right, all Mrs. Marta Ribas had asked me about 10th and 13th. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He lost, 10th and 12th; yes. [[Miss Boya and Busquet ask to speak. Pause and voice of the background.]] I see it, I see it. Miss Boya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.74.0	You're the one who thought that in the vein, president...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.75.0	I was just looking over there. Say it, say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.76.0	Vote separate from points 2, 6, 12 and 15.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.77.0	Okay. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.78.0	I want 10 and 13.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.79.0	Okay. [[Pause.]] Repeat: separate vote from points 2, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15. Right? [[Pause.]] So, we'll start by voting these and then the rest of the vote. Well, the rest of the young man, frankly... yes, there are some – there are some. Okay. Okay, so, we'll start..., let's start the vote by voting point number two. The vote begins. It was rejected by 63 votes to 69, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number six. The vote begins. It was rejected by 63 votes to 69, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number 10. The vote begins. It was approved by 96 votes to 11, with 25 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number 11. The vote begins. It was approved by 108 votes to 24, with 24 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 12. The vote begins. It was rejected by 52 votes to 61, with 19 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 13. The vote begins. It was approved by 95 votes to 11, with 25 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 14. The vote begins. It was approved by 70 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 15. The vote begins. It was approved by 63 votes to 61, with 8 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Some applause.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into its inaction before the situation of social emergence]] [[302-00055/11]] The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on its failure to act before the social emergency presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, they're quiet and in a hurry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.80.0	Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.81.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.82.0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our motion, if you will recall, comes from an inquiry which was made to the Government about the government's inaction – inaction – in the face of the social emergency situation – I see that I have drunk the water of the previous Member of Parliament. [[the timer riu]] - No, no, no, Well, this motion we have divided into five parts – into five parts. The first is that we attribute the inactivity of the Administration, first of all, to the constant questioning of the legal framework that we have. It is clear that a Government that is more concerned with creating state structures, getting out of the legal-political impasse in which they have entered, that they know that they have no way out and, despite that, they are throwing the ball forward, for it is clear that this Government is not a government that deals with the things that concern Catalans. Every time you disconnect the phone to mobilize society in the aspect of building a new state, every time you do that, you stop taking off the phone to make a management so that there is one more hospital bed, so that one dependent's problem is solved, so that there is one less barracks in schools. Time is limited and any time it takes to build state structures is a waste of time to attend to a state's social emergencies. Therefore, the first of the points goes on the establishment of a stable and legal legal framework, within the legality and loyalty to our State. This is like the basic premise for talking about everything else. The second part is to undertake the reforms of the Administration. This has an obvious quantification in the quality of the services provided by an administration. An administration full of chiringuitos, of deficit public enterprises, of organizations that do not serve, of duplicity, has an economic cost that makes it impossible to devote public flows to solving the problems that must be faced. The third block of proposals is to deal with the urgent social problems that we have, and among them, we once again call for compliance with Motion 40/XI, which is an emergency in housing, to really fight against exclusion and poverty, to finally determine the number of people and families who are in need, to be counted to know exactly who are the people who need energy poverty assistance and, finally, to pay attention to local governments, to the municipalities, to ensure that this super-effort that the municipalities have had to make, that would correspond to the Generalitat and that by its inaction it has ended up falling to the municipalities, so that they will finally be compensated, even economically, for the expenses that they have had to face. Fourth bloc: transparency measures. We still do not really take transparency measures, for example, on waiting lists. On the waiting lists..., the first thing to do is to get rid of waiting lists, but in the meantime we have waiting lists, let's give the public confidence that real proper management is being done so that those waiting lists, no one is left behind without criteria that are clear and transparent. Finally, policies for the care of minors. Minors, who are the future of the country, must have priority attention. It is not good for us to conform and remain inactive by saying that we have an educational system that is a model of success; with that we will not move forward. We need to put in place measures to prevent child abuse in schools; we also promote the free use of textbooks to help ensure that there is no social inequality among children who have to work hard every year, their families, to acquire textbooks. Here we have accepted some of Catalonia's amendments Yes, it is Pot that we will then talk about them at the turn of the amendments. So, as has been said, there are also issues of the preservation of child abuse. All these five blocs that we have proposed seem to us essential and urgent and that deserve the dedication and priority attention of the Government; and in all cases we believe that we can greatly improve this management that is occupied in other matters that are not those of social emergency that we unfortunately have in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.83.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word of Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.84.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will advise, Vice-President, before entering the detail of the motion you would like to make two preliminary remarks. The first has to do with the time we had to negotiate our discussions with the Ciutadans group, the proposing group. Yesterday at 6.30 p.m., a proposal came to us where some of our papers were traded, and we believe that it is a short time and that we have certainly not been able to bring or make the contributions that we believe to be appropriate with the time we believe to be necessary. The second consideration has to do with the diversity of the themes of this young man, some of whom we think do not have much to do strictly with social emergence and that they may be caught with clamps and seem, at last, in their analysis, a certain bar of themes, right? Now, this young man speaks in his first part of the competitions, of the pressure of the public administration, of the remunerations to the public offices..., fears without any doubt important, but also seized..., surely they do not have much to see with the concept that we usually speak in this Parliament of Social Emergency, but they are important fears. And on this issue, our group agrees with the total deployment of the powers attached to the Statute of Autonomy and the Constitution, a deployment paralyzed over the past few years for lack of permanent dialogue between the Government of the Generality and the Government of the State, which has caused the citizens to be the main victims of this situation. It is not understood that the two governments, in these four years, have reactivated as the Bilateral State-General Commission. We also believe that it is necessary to complete the Law, 2/2014, for which it makes the wage limitation of the upper ranks. We have already approved the month of April in this Parliament and months later, and today this decree is neither complete nor contemplated in the project of failed assumptions. Apart from social problems, the opinions of our group urge the Government to complete what this Parliament, at the instititudes of our own group, has already approved earlier, as the compliment of Resolution 70/XI, which urges the Government to put the Basic Sub-Government Fund at the disposal of the joints because they can be used, which, moreover, is a fund which has not been used by the Constitutional Court, but which has not been put to the day before at the disposal of the joints. Therefore, in this block, what is required is to complete what has already been granted. Therefore, no novelty respects the proposals. As far as the transparency and efficiency of health, social and health services are concerned, we agree with the content, but it also does not bring anything that our group has defended in this very Parliament and in other resolutions that respects the need to publish the lists of expectations, the criteria of priority or the updating of the portfolio of social services, which has already been approved in parliamentary committee, on the proposal of our group also with the recovery of the Group of Citizens and other groups of this chamber. And with regard to childhood policies, our group again asks what was approved last month in this plenary: three-hundred and nine places of CRAE and CREI which, however, were not included in the draft assumptions that the government was unable to approve. Regarding the free text books in Catalonia, we don't just agree, but we already apply it to some of the meetings governed by the PSC, as is the case with Santa Coloma de Gramenet. Agreed to claim that the State Government restores the corresponding contributions to help them acquire textbooks. But it is not less certain that we could put free text books out of the way if the same government does the millionaire debt to local administrations. Therefore, it is not a new proposal either, since, at last, I can find examples in Catalonia of assemblies that already do so before the government's inability to do so. In short, our parliamentary group will give this motion a lift, among other things, because it asks to complete what many times we have approved in different committees and in this very House. Now, yes, we would ask him, in any case, to try to make some more concrete motions, and we would thank the efforts to ask for the compliment of what has already been approved, that not to approve things twenty times will be done sooner. Unfortunately, we have accumulated experience in these years of this fact, and, please, review the mechanics for the negotiation of motions: it does not turn out well if it is time, even more if it is about issues as sensitive as these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.85.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.86.0	Thank you, President. All the dear ones, Mr Carrizosa, but let us take off a lot, let us take off a lot with your questions and your motions. And with their resolutions to the committees, because they're coming from some possible motions, that they touch it all and they don't touch anything, like this case, to resolutions or motions of super things, super concrete with very concrete points that they're not..., aren't they? ; it's like..., they're looking at the saying and not the moon, and they never just hit the background themes. It is a young man who bears the title: "On the inaction of the government before the situation of social emergence and neither in the inquiry nor in the motion we see, for example, an analysis of what is being completed and what is not of a plethora of social emergence, a plethora of sensibly specific that we have done on social emergence in this chamber and which, then, does not? We don't think it would be the object of the inquiry and the motion; what is to be complimented and what is not, and what should be complemented by respect for everything approved. For example, huh? It's clear that we're different groups and we think different, but I have to express it, I couldn't shut up. It doesn't seem like it... we think it's different, I've already said it, but it doesn't seem like it's really the object of a social emergency motion and what's going on, so you're about to push the Administration. We don't think I'm going this way; or how public names do. I don't know if that solves social emergence. We don't have mass... it's not our way of doing it, is it? That we are dealing with a subject, such as that of poor energy and housing, that we were not just dealing with the Social Emergencies Plenary, but that we were dealing with the Catalonian Group in a very large House Yes, it is four days ago in another House, and that we are now dealing with it again in a very superficial way, in the initial points that you exposed in this House. Or that they intend to deal with the issue of attention to minors and how to deal with situations of social inequality in childhood and... Obviously, they are elements of unequal rights, textbooks, family hours, but stay here when we are now facing a time when there are many infants in this country who will not have access to activities of light..., and this is a situation of brutal inequality during a 25_percent of their time of year. The other day I expressed it in Carles Barba in a very good article in the daily Ara. I don't know, ways to hear things, right? Certainly different on the part of Catalonia. Yes, it is Pot and Ciutadans, and, therefore, we have to say: they have surprised us with this motion and with this inquiry. As it goes, obviously, we've assessed the points they've presented, we've done some research, and I'm saying that we'll obviously support the points of this later on about childhood and inequality, we'll approve all these points. We will also support, of course, all the points of better management and transparency in waiting lists of various public services, even though they are points that have already been approved in previous motions and resolutions, but, of course, we will support them. For example, and important, and we wanted to highlight, the need to update the Social Service Portfolio, a point that we also put to the vote in the March Social Emergencies Plenary. We'll support a few of the points that talk about housing emergence and poor energy. But, I have advanced, we will not support point 3.c, for an element of contradiction with that already approved in our motion, to which the ugly reference a while ago, from Catalonia Yes that is Pot, more extensive on this subject. And we will support him, too, at the first point of this young man. I do, though, in the second place. Look, even though you have incorporated Juntes' statements for Yes that they may be a little more concrete, it is so ambiguous that you speak of the administration's insistence, of the names of the tasks and of how they should be remunerated, so ambiguous that coming from Ciutadans makes you suspect that you are among the same march that you defend that we must carry the local councils, or that you defend that we must introduce more criteria of business management to public management, as when at this point you are..., in the past, say that you can pay according to the actual quality of the services provided. Look, we have..., I think we're in the antipodes, sure; we're in the antipodes of Ciutadans, like the People's Party, respect how we understand the management of public administration, respect how we understand the role of public administration, respect what we understand as the competitions of each state of public administration, and respect what we understand as double competitions. And therefore, as it is a point written by the hands of the City so, so, so generic and ambiguous, because I continue to feel its mark of thought, we will vote them not at all.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.87.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The words of Ms. Anna Figueras, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.88.0	Well, well, thank you very much, President. Councillor, Vice-President – forgive me, Councillor –, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, we find ourselves in front of a young man who could say that he is a lençol, more of a general policy debate than, therefore, a regular debate in plenary session. Mirin, twenty-six points, in total, camouflaged in five separates, which Mr. Carrizosa will tell us, and they will understand that with the time we have, therefore, we cannot enter, let us say, at the detail of all. And, therefore, the extension, let's say, of this line, of this line, of this line does not facilitate us, therefore, the debate, which we assume is not the object, because the object..., let's say, speaking of the objects of this line..., remains a small piece rolled over all folded. Mirin, for example, if we look at the title of the motion that says: "Motion on the government's inaction in the face of the situation of social emergence. You don't know what the point is, do you? Whether the alleged inaction or social emergence. But it's that I look, reading, for example, the exhibition part, and actually hearing it speak to you in your intervention, someone may think that the object is neither the government's inaction nor the social emergence, because, listen to me, to expose a dramatic load of lack of resources to face social emergence situations, they also talk and relate the increase of abuse to ideology and language: you are here! You, Plerere Ple, get to show off your obsession with language, the unit of Spain, confrontation; that this certainly is the object of your political project, which has little to do with social emergence, obviously. [[Widow's remorse.]] But, look, let's analyze – that I see they're nervous – the content of the device, which is what we're going to vote on and try to re-evaluate what this young man's objective might be. Is this the supposed inaction of the government? Mr. Carrizosa has told us yes, possibly. But look, today we'll show them that when you serve from the white-on-black chamber to the approved final content, they'll probably propose to change the title to "Government Action Before Social Emergencies." Twenty-six points, of these twenty-six points, the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes will vote in favour of coming to one because they either accept the statements that the Government is already doing what you propose or we will vote in favour of what the Government, let's say, is already implementing. As Mr Moreno said to them: "Res again. For example: "Reform the Administration so that it is more efficient. Remember, of the omnibus laws? It's been a few years since we've had it. For example: "Primify Administration and allocate more resources to citizens. Oh, so much! Mirin: From 2011 we have not reduced, from those you say, 113: a 22_percent of those that existed. « Establish a fair remuneration system for public authorities. It's going through Law 2/2014, of 27 gener. For the moment, as you can see the honourable Members, you can see with social emergence. Come on, point three. The only one who really, and you have recognized it, has to do with social emergence: "To take measures so that people can cope with basic sub-administrations or the use of solidarity fund support of basic sub-administrations. They know perfectly well, and, moreover, they have remembered it, because it was approved in this chamber, at the proposal of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, that necessary measures are being taken because it is possible to face the payment of the sub-administrations more quickly. That's right: with collaboration between administrations. « On tax measures to encourage social loguers. The law of measures has been, listen'm, a great occasion because you have made all this rule of proposals you have, but more know that there is the Law 14/2015, on empty habitats, which encumbers the failure of the social function of the property. In Decree 183... – certainly, appealed to the Constitutional Court, that until September 25th, let's say, we are waiting, whether it raises the veto or not, and to these maybe we could ask for a little more celerity. Therefore, proactive action of the Government, all, clear, one more time. Point 4, about transparency, little to see with social emergence as well. Make public the waiting lists of health, social and health services and dependent status. Hi you know that you have approved the Comprehensive Plan to improve the waiting lists and that you publish periodically in the department, on the department's website. And the website of the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families also publishes the evolution of dependency. Therefore, transparency all and a little more demonstrated, therefore, the action of the Government. If your objective were not, then, this social emergence, you could, let's say, not veto assumptions and approve – or, in any case, debate – assumptions that offer them 800_million euros, escort'm, in order to fight against social emergence as well. I'm telling you, your priority is certainly not this social emergence because of the twenty-six points only a 12-per-cent has to really see with this social emergence. If you really believe in or want to fight against social Emergency, another year does not see the debate of the assumptions, they make their proposals, their arguments, because with their veto in the assumptions or in the debate, not in the assumptions, in the debate of the Law of assumptions, you have not improved the action of the Government, nor have you improved the situation of social Emergency that we imagine is one of its objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.89.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.90.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, at the beginning of this legislature we showed our perplexity, because the former councillor of Benestar, Social and Family had converted with a menu of macro-counselorship where there was absolutely everything. I mean, it's the council of social matters, family, great people, migration, work, benefits, etc. And as I said, it was easier to say all that I wasn't in the councillor's office than the one I was in the councillor's office, wasn't it? And we, at the time, said and asked ourselves: "Is this institutional architecture of the government going to work or not? And we were wondering. And I think that today, counsel, it has been proved that this architecture was not the right one; it was not the right one, because the months are passing and it is proving that the principles of the wise popular Castilian that "who covers a lot, little tight, therefore, feel reality. And I do not doubt in absolute, counsel, of his will to change things and to transform reality to better, but what I can tell him is that this will is not translated into concrete action, nor with transformative action. And we have a paralyzed council – paralyzed – and... at least that's the impression this congressman has. And if this congressman, who follows the advice of the council, has this, I don't know who should hold the advice. You can say, "It's a communication problem. Well, I don't know. The point is that I have this feeling that "whoever covers a lot, little squeezes. And we have a consulting firm that's all there is to it. Now, what are you doing? What steps are they giving themselves? So, we haven't just met them. And there's a lot to do, and this young man raises various issues that we subscribe to. We are talking about reducing the superfluous expenditure of the Administration, and Mr Carrizosa said: Catalonia has a lot of bodies, agencies, subsidies, "xiringuitos, which is very remarkable. And I understand that you want to put some friends and acquaintances in, but you could be a little more sober or discreet in the manger – let's say it somehow, right? It does not mean that Catalonia's upper ranks are the ones that cover the most from all of Spain; it does not mean that so much money is spent when there are so many people who do not have the needy covered. And we could start, and you could tell me it's populism, so look, I'm telling you, we don't learn much from you. And when a_he said and when a_he put a populist speech in Catalonia, as you have done five years ago, that is the process of independence, that is pure and hard populism, so in the end this can turn absolutely against like a boomerang. And that's what happens, for example, with the theme of poor energy, that's what happens. Because, look, in Catalonia for many weeks it seemed that the great problem, that the great drama, which is, moreover, the question of the poor energy, which is a vital issue. But, fixed's, the Government of Spain appealed to the Constitutional against the Law 24/2015, and did not appeal against the party of the poor energy, and in this something there was to see the People's Party of Catalonia. We didn't run. So from that day on, the poor energy has disappeared to Catalonia. Have you read in any newspapers that you're back to talking about poor energy? Have you read again... to the generality again to talk about poor energy? No, no, He hasn't disappeared. Obviously, he hasn't disappeared. Obviously, Mrs. Ribas. It's a tough problem, it's a vital problem. The only thing you say... is that here you see the Catalan concerted system, which, suddenly, the pilot returns to the Generalitat, the pilot returns, and it stops talking about this issue. And it's that, besides, you keep it easy. Listen to me, they have a lot of friends with the great Catalan electric companies. So I'm talking to them – I'm talking to them – and they're trying to reach an agreement once in a while for these families. Now, if you look at it, it's funny, because, by the way, this law is no longer the law of energy poverty. They've even changed his name because he's not talking about this thing, which is now up to you. Here, in this young man, he asks me to use his tools. Because, of course, it is very easy to take the tools of the old saying: "We will solve the problems with the tools of the old saying. So no. You have tools, and you have to apply them, and you have to take advantage of them. Because what they've done these years... that's to say, you're talking to us all about this time and this place that we have in front of us. But, well, we have a "while," as you say. And while, people don't, they study, they get sick, they get sick, they get sick, they die, right? And you've forgotten, as some people like to say, life, and you've put your entire government in the service of an absolutely partisan ideology, and you see that and you just work for it, and you forget this life that affects people, and that, for example – and I finish – you also have to see with the hourly reform, which is how this young man ends, which we will also vote for. Therefore, Madam President, I ask you to vote separately on the third, third point, and the rest of us will fully subscribe to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.91.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr Sergi Saladié, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.92.0	All right. Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. We find ourselves, this, before a young lady who has many points, that it is a bar, a pot, of questions that if we grab them one by one we could agree with many, but that we understand that they are packed and come in a way that distills, we could tell us, and with all respect, a certain demagogy, right? , in the sense of facing a process of independence that we have started with a complaint of an absolute inaction of the Government. And, while we do not share many of the measures of the present government, above all from the past, that advance towards the privatization of certain servants or social inattentiveness in some aspects, that is not true at all, either. Besides, if we take every one of these different points, we'll see that they don't even come up with the depth that would warm up every one... and, above all, from our point of view, they don't go to the end of the problem. That is to say, for us there is, at present, a double situation of, we might say, financial oppression. For a band, we have a European troika that "austerically forces to make some details and a suppression..., which implies a suppression of basic rights. So, if we don't face this superstructure, all these other things are very difficult to complete. And also a financial oppression of the Spanish State. Let's remember that more than 90 percent of the tickets we have to the current Autonomous Community of Catalonia are controlled via Madrid and with iron control of all the expense. So if we don't change this structure, which we want to change absolutely, we can't deal with... the solution to all these social and economic problems. Therefore, we must go to the scene of the problem. These measures that you are putting forward here, that is, a care model, in short, can solve some questions, and must be solved, but at the same time it is unsustainable for the public system, because if we do not fix these superstructures, we do not fight them, nor change the model of the European troika, nor change the model of territorial organization, which we want it to be through a formula of an independent republic, we will hardly be able to change these problems. Why? Because we don't have enough resources to do it. If every time there are more people who will suffer misery, the state, whatever it is, will not be able to deal with..., guarantee the assistance of all these basic resources. Therefore, we propose a model change, a social model change, an economic model change and a territorial organization model change. And that's why we build a republic, an independent republic that is based on this guarantee that everyone has access to a minimum of entrances through a division of labor and wealth. Because what we can't do, and this is also the distillery of this young man... is that you do a segmentation of different types of poor, right? They're talking about poor energy, they're talking about poor energy, they're talking about poor energy, they're talking about poor energy, they're talking about poor energy, they're talking about poor energy, they're talking about poor energy, they're I mean, the person who's poor is poor, and if he's poor, he can't pay according to what you serve and he can't deal with what he needs. Therefore, we need to start talking about the poor in a broad sense. They cannot speak only of a type of poor or of different types of poor. So, we're not in favour... of this model of care alone, which is obviously to be dealt with when this assumes an authentic emergence, it's obvious, here we would all agree... also because some of these proposals you're making here to try to reverse this seem absolutely light, right? That is to say, if all this is to be solved through the reform of public administrations, then no; I mean, that loses. We would agree, with some of these aspects of reform of public administrations, so that we can speed them up, make them more efficient, etc., but the student who would assume that could not face up to the burden. So what we're planting is a structural change. So, as we can't vote against many of the points that you raise here, but as voting for them would mean obviating this part that we are fighting because we can achieve this social and economic transformation to free ourselves from the troika and free ourselves from the Spanish State, what we are doing is a abstention to the totality of all these points, and, in any case, if in different committees these points have been dealt with in a way that we can perhaps go there to understand in some of these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.93.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, Mr. Carlos Carrizosa has the word to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.94.0	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, thank the Socialist Party, Catalonia Yes it is Pot and Junts for Yes the amendments with which they have enriched the original text, which have accepted many of them and many of them have been negotiated. This motion has been accused, on the one hand, of being a sheet, and, on the other, of being very light, or that addresses few things and that there is much more to address. It's true. That is to say, on the one hand, we cannot put here a whole program of government, obviously, this is not a program of government in an investiture speech, but you can also not stop including some concrete things, and this does sometimes cause the extension of the motion to be extended. Entering into the four most relevant things that could have been said, well, first what I wanted to specify is that the CRAE, the three hundred places, is one of the issues that we already had in the motion, one more example that we could have put more things but that we really couldn't put them all. It has been criticized by Junts for it Yes, well, it is actually here that there is an attack on the issue of the process and all this, and that there are things that are not of social emergency and waiting lists are not. Well, waiting lists are. Waiting lists are also a social emergency and we must take care of them. Questions of language have also been seen here, as if there had been here... If nothing is said of language, at all..., of social emergency..., nothing is said in this motion, I don't know where you have seen it! The obsession is yours, like that of Constellera Bassa, by the way, who has also taken it out without coming to my partner's account saying that if I didn't understand him because I was talking to him in Catalan, right? [[Some applause.]] So, I think the obsessed are you. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.95.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Call it a vote. [[Marta Rovira and Vergés ask to speak.]] Mrs. Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.96.0	In order to ask for a separate vote from item 1; at 2, paragraph a, paragraph 2.a; 3.c; 3.d; 4.a, and 6. [[Marta Ribas Frías asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.97.0	Mrs. Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.98.0	To ask for a separate vote from point 3.c. I think maybe it was already asked...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.99.0	It was already in demand, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.100.0	...and point two all the way. It could be en bloc, so call it, huh? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.101.0	As you can see, a separate vote has been requested on item 1, item 2, item 2, item 3, item 3.c, item 3.d, item 4.a and item 6. Right? [[Pause.]] Start with the usual. We will vote first point 1, after second, after all 2 and then continue, and at the end the rest of the vote. Okay? [[Pause.]] So now we start voting point one. The vote begins. It was approved by 63 votes to one, with 68 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 2.a. The vote begins. It was rejected by 51 votes to 71, with 8 abstentions. Then, we'll vote for the whole point, the second, all the way. The vote begins. It was approved by 113 votes to 11, with 8 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on the third point. The vote begins. It was approved by 114 votes in favour, against and 18 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 3.c. The vote begins. It was rejected by 52 votes to 72, with 8 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 3.d. The vote begins. It was approved by 63 votes to 61, with 8 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 4.a. The vote begins. It was approved by 63 votes to 69, with 69 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 6. The vote begins. It was approved by 62 votes in favour, against and 70 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. It was adopted by 124 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the VISC+ project]] [[302-00056/11]] The point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the VISC+ project, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. To expose her, has the word Ms. Marta Ribas. [[Widow's remorse.]] And, as always, we ask the deputies to come out quickly and quietly, please. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.102.0	Well, thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, I said clearly in the question that has given fruit, beginning with this motion: the object of this motion, the first objective of this motion was to leave the VISC+ project in the background; a project, a concrete example of how we tried to market all the juices and which can give economic root to our health system. In the past few years, this has unfortunately been too often: attempts to negotiate with our salvation; in this case, with the management of the data of our health system. And with this young man we'll leave the VISC+ project in the back of the story. But, obviously, this is not the only object of this young man; it is not a parliamentary group, that of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, to say "no and it's over, but to say" and yes, other things can be done in another way. And, therefore, we want to take good advantage of the opportunity to reuse the data of the health system, and therefore to establish a system to use, yes, the data of the health system, but with a limited use of data, only for medical research and evaluation purposes of the same health system. We want the beneficiaries of the use of these data to follow the owners of these data, the citizenry, the 7_million users and users of the system. We want it to be done with public management, with strict public control, without mercantilization, without mercantilization. And in this sense we make very concrete, viable proposals, we believe, to exercise this control, to ensure this public utility of the data, because, for example, the only search centers that can use these data following the accredited search centers; one of the formulas – surely the best we have found; there could be many others – by power, right? , to control in some way how many types of search centers there can have access, and, moreover, also, the posterior control, if any, of sanction to those who do harm to these data. And, therefore, this public accreditation tool like the Search Center is one of the most useful tools we have found to be able to do this control. We also set out ethical principles that would complement, and also how to control them, both a priori, from an ethical and scientific committee that assessed suitability, as well as assessing conflicts of interest. And, obviously, the need for transparency of the whole process, of the results, also of these searches, and of the possibility of sanctions to those that have not made good use of these ethical principles or of security; data security, too, to be able to make an auditable anonymization process, with public leadership, to be able to follow up on the processing of data throughout the process of a search that uses the data of our public system, to be able to make risk assessment reports, so that there is an obligation of these reports, and also because the same system allows us to improve the current security of the data of the public health system, which is also deficient and much better. And, so, this one-stop-shopping thing we give, don't you think? , that all the centers of the Siscat must use this only beginning of the exit of the data, or that there are elements of security in the anonymization, of forecasting of sanctions, such as the goddess, for the practical evils, or the right of opt-out, or then, of exiting, of not being used the data, on the part of the citizenry that wants to make it serve, this right. And, obviously, we will also reiterate what has already been approved in the last legislature: the need to hold a political and social debate on the suitability of this project and on the terms of this project; a debate that has already taken place, which will be from the coming week, in a first session, and with an open session the following week. So, well, we've tried to move, now, a lot of work already done on the VISC+ project, leaving, obviously, still a lot open so that it can be debated in these sessions that will be done in these very weeks. Today, therefore, we can stop the opaque and negative page of managing key elements of our public health system, as was this VISC+ project, and start a way to try to do things right – try to do things right –; it will take a very strict control because they are really good girls and this corresponds to all of us, who are here and to the citizenry, who is a user of the system and who is outside. Not to be the first country to make a treatment system, taking advantage of the big health data, it was also mentioned in the inquiry, but as we try to be, if any, the first one to do it well. And we have the opportunity from this point of view, which, for the points that have been made and for the talks that have been made with the other groups, I understand that it will have an extensive support, but especially for the control that we can make of the execution, after this new project of the management of the sanitary data between all the folded ones, which is really, isn't it? , an example project for other countries that can also come later to copy it, to imitate it, and, if it can, therefore, allow us to have real public utility of the data of our health system.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.103.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.104.0	Thank you, President. Much in line with what Mrs Marta Ribas has just said at this time, our group shares the feeling of the young man, shares, too, as she has expressed herself, and indeed the discussions have gone a long way, only with the desire to improve the same text and to achieve some of the things. At the time, we could have raised whether this young man was necessary, after the Councillor's statements, for the meetings of the new director of the Aquas or for the same agreement of the board of directors cancelling the competitive dialog or, at last, according to the call of the participative day. To our understanding – and here we also agree with Mrs Ribas – calia, because it is a firm decision of this Parliament that will finally end the project of marketing the data of the health system. Since 2013, when the use of health data was given commercial value, the willingness to negotiate with the data of our own system has been very present in the previous government. We can't get Mr. Argimon's words out of our heads when he said VISC+ is a project to market the use of data and benefit the economic and industrial fabric. I think the intentions were pretty clear. But we share above all the fact that this young man is a good young man to continue pushing the search and to create a big health data management program with the maximum agreement and consent. We want to create a big date of the centers included in the Siscat because our researchers have all the tools to carry out their work with the best conditions, but we want it to be clear that it is not commercial. And above all we want to be supportive; the Councillor said the other day: we must not give up being supportive of our own data, but we do not want to be part of a commercial bank, a commercial data bank, and I think this is the difference. This means – I think it is the content of the motion – an exclusively public management; it means that the Aquas is the guarantor of the data, it is the cribratge of what is needed for each search and it is the one that guarantees the anonymization of all of them, the great theme and the great debate. Therefore, the Search believes the centers and searches, and the proposal to create a clinical research ethics committee in some way is to ensure that this can be. I think it's all right to incorporate the Junts for the Yes message, creating the governance committee and the advisor council, since if we join together good governance, transparency and guarantee all the ethical criteria, it may be much better. We say, these criteria, more evaluation, based on public criteria and published beforehand to be able to narrow down the use of these data. The guarantee of citizens' and citizens' rights, users of the health system, that their data are not part of the big health data if they so wish. But I think there are two aspects here: we need to work on the information and dissemination with all the guarantees because anyone feels protected, but we need to encourage anyone who wants to be a part of this project. And, therefore, it is very important that the idea of breaking through with previous schemes and promoting the awareness that this solidarity is, is also part of our efforts in favour of research and the better quality of care. In this sense, a little more to add. We've incorporated into the puzzle..., a theme in the sense that all searchers arriving at the ethics committee incorporate a technical report that assesses the risk of data de-anonymization, assigned the risk level and proposed limitations, if that's the case. And just to finish, they say that if Aquas has to be the guarantor of all this and has to take responsibility and transparency control procedures, it will have to have material and human resources that allow it, and, moreover, specialized resources, biostatistics, bioinformatics and many other professionals. Therefore, it is clear that the government will have to deliver the economic memory, the calendar, and how it expects this to go forward. Let us hope, as Congresswoman Marta Ribas said, that this text of the young lady will also guide the participative papers that you are creating or are already convoking during this month to bring the project forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.105.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Escarp. Next is the word of Mrs. Alba Vergés, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.106.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Members and Members, well, I have been preceded by two Members who believe that they have very clearly expressed the sense of the motion and the sense not only of the previous project, but of that consensus which we want to use and which will become evident in this Parliament today, in this vote, which I believe will be very extensive, for a new program of management of the big health data, under some premises in which there is an obvious majority in this Parliament, which is really important. Let me express the satisfaction that we actually come from a project that was named VISC+; that was born on a bottom basis, only one part; that was tried to pull forward for a previous government; that did not find consent to Parliament, and on various occasions, more; that had different modifications; that was object of much debate, not only to Parliament, but also to civil society, in the bioethics committee, in the Catalan Data Protection Authority, in the observatories of the University of Barcelona; that was pending, also, from public papers asked here, in this Parliament, with constant complaints of transparency. And we've gone on to work with another paradigm, with a new project, with a new program, considering that everything that we've done in the past legislature has served and served to make us all aware that a person's data, that every clinical history is personal and sensitive, and that it must always be considered that way, but they also see the opportunity that a project gave us, because of the brutal power that our data hold not in each of our personal carpets, but in each of the sets of data that can be created from these. And here come our papers to concretely and to reinforce what is very important, which is the anonymization process, the guarantees of security, the follow-up – the follow-up to the whole project is very important – on the data that are essential for each concrete project, the governance system – also clau – because we want a project that is obviously exclusively publicly managed, in which the Aquas is who the leader, limiting its use for research, as Mrs Marta Ribas has explained, and with absolute transparency. This is what we have in agreement now, which we have achieved among all; this is what the Government is working on; this is what has made available to us, and this is what we come here to reaffirm, to the Parliament of Catalonia. Therefore, we are definitely tanking the VISC+ project folder – this is defined – which put a lot of emphasis on data potential, which I said before. The competitive dialogue has been closed, but now we are putting in place another programme, another project, which is based on this consensus that he gave the same, the sign of hardship, when he came to intervene here in accordance with the VISC+ project, which he said: "A big health data project is a strategic project for a country. Therefore, this opportunity I believe that we have all read to build this new project now on the basis of these consensuss, but also that it includes – this new project – not only the focus of the data potential, but also that it is so much more important that it is the focus in the consideration that we will deal with data that will be protected, as recommended by the Catalan Data Protection Authority, the focus that we want a public leadership, that we want to assume, this responsibility to guarantee anonymity, to guarantee security, and also to ensure ethical guarantees. That's why the governance board, that's why the Clinical Research Ethics Committee, that's why the external advisor board, because we also need to ensure that everything that refers to personal data and ethics in the treatment of these data is not only transparent, but is treated rigorously. We recognize, therefore, the work of the Government – in this case, starting with the Councillor – but also of the Aquas; of the proposing group, which has explained it magnificently well, the Marta, as we want this new project to be, and as we want it to be consolidated here today, with the different groups that have also made contributions, because we have been able to grasp what is good, where this consensus brought us, this opportunity, and translate it into a new thing and close a definitive folder. And what is this new project, will be these nine days very soon, July 5th and 12th, and also put emphasis on this change in point 1 that is very clear to all researchers and all the people who are dedicated to the search of our country, that it is certain that the VISC+ project is finally completed, but that we believe in the search, that we want to use the data in a responsible way, because they can make the social return that this Parliament believes it is calling for citizenship, that it is, as Martha has said, the ownership of these data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.107.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vergés. Next, has the word Mr Martín Barra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.108.0	President... Deputies, deputies...., the VISC+ project was born a few years ago as a big health data project, but it had important defects in its origin; it is not that we only saw the lame point, it is that the lame was fundamental. The idea behind the project is certainly very interesting. It is...– now that we have the technological means to deal with large quantities, massive amounts of data–, it is about being able to use the data that the health system has to improve, to make them available for biomedical research. And this represents a very important, very great opportunity. We all understand that having as large a database as possible will make it possible to draw better conclusions from scientific studies and the greater the progress that can be made to society as a whole, the concept of solidarity that has already been expressed here by other Members. But as every new opportunity also presented new and great challenges. The main challenge you have to address – because you have had to address all the big health data projects that have taken place around the world – is that the data are from users of the health system. The owner of the data is neither the health centre, nor the Siscat, nor the councillor, nor the Generalitat, nor this Parliament. Therefore, as has also been mentioned, it is very important that the necessary channels be established to have the consent of users to use or not to use their data within this system and to ensure what is called anonymisation. In other words, the data used for the investigation cannot be identified. Last week took place in this..., here, in the same Parliament, a day organized by the Catalan Authority of Data Protection to which I had the opportunity to come and on which special emphasis was placed on the issues of anonymization given the new regulation on this matter that is being launched. In addition, in the case of health data, it was not intended to be anonymized at source, but to be able to identify the subject in order to be able to provide health care with all his or her history and background available. Fortunately, we have the means to anonymize them and we have to be very careful in this regard. Managing entities and those using this data must be particularly careful, because we are dealing with very sensitive data. And that is the main problem that the project had at its origin: it was intended to hand over data management to a company, to which it was chosen, well, and in addition to its possible commercialization, which was possible, the whole process was opaque. And that was the main reason for criticism. Not only in this Parliament, also by professional entities, by civil entities, almost all over the world. Fortunately, the direction of the project today seems to be different, and we are pleased. Councillor Comín, in response to Catalonia's inquiry Yes, it is Pot in the last plenary, gave assurances – and we trust it will – that the project will not be outsourced, but will be managed and controlled only by Aquas, and we think this change is right. And also announced, at last, the day that was pending from the previous legislature – it was pending – there was still the project, which was not seen from where..., but good. As has already been said, on Tuesday next week we will have the first session, then we will have the second session and we hope that it will provide us with all the information and all the answers of the questions that arise to ensure the correct development, from now on, of this project. But although things are evolving favourably, and as Mrs Escarp has also said, we consider the motion tabled by the Group of Catalonia to be very timely Yes, it is Pot, and which is in line with other motions already adopted in this Parliament, but which further deepens in some specific aspects. Our group has tabled two amendments: one, which has been accepted, which makes a nuance to a point from which literal reading could be deduced – although it certainly was not the intention but could be deduced – which limited some research that could be done within the health centres themselves with their controls, which already exist – this has been accepted – but also an amendment, which has not been accepted, and it was that not only the nearby centres could use this information. When we talk about health research, closing the focus only in Catalonia or Spain, or even in Europe, is not right. That a European entity with means, with availability, with the capacity to manage this data – public, that meets all the requirements, that is fully in line with what we want for this project – could then make use of them..., but now that it cannot seem to us a limitation. But, finally, even with this aspect, which we consider to be improveable, of the project... – there will always be time to expand it, we must also understand that you are cautious at first – because even with this aspect which, as I say, we consider to be improveable, our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the whole motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.109.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Barra. Next, there is the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.110.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, to position our parliamentary group in relation to this motion of the Initiative Group..., In Common We Can – this is an Initiative restyling. Focusing on what's main... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'll explain it to you later. Focusing on what's main... what's main, or that the number one point of the motion speaks of the VISC+ project, I think that what's main is not the number one point, it's all the rest. What is fundamental, what is essential is to define a model of management of the big health data. And, therefore, I want to start by positioning myself here, because many times it associates, or it can end up associating, if it doesn't get into some detail in the matter, that the VISC+ project is a big data project and what there is is an opposition to the big data project. And that's not it. Therefore, yes round to the management of health data, yes round to the big health data. What did you object to? So, obviously, the goal that must be pursued by managing these data is the best of the public health system in all its aspects: from prevention, from prediction, from detection, from medication, from many other things. Now, that has to be done with certain conditions. And we are provided that they are important, that they are strict, that they are really what ensures that the use of these health data completes with all the requirements, not only legal and legal, but also ethical in relation to the use of this information that is sensitive. They said, huh? , and we've been talking about it for a long time: transparency, the authorization of the owners – essential –, the use of data in an aggregate and also depersonalized way, which is a way to avoid the word of anonymity that sometimes has not just come out of everything. Therefore, we are absolutely in agreement that all these conditions will last so long as the management of the big health data is done with... – in fact, any big data, huh? –, you do with the necessary guarantees. Now – and here we will start to make some small difference – is the management of these data to be public management? Yes, if there are media, yes, of course, we have absolutely no objection to the fact that the data management is still public. Does the use of these data have to be public? Yeah, too, of course, I'd just miss it. Exclusively public? No, we do not find it necessary that the use of data is solely and exclusively public. And in this sense, for a lot of things... I'll tell you a general idea and then, I think, an example, I think it's worth remembering. In the first place, value the private contribution to the public health system. The public health system with all its extension is nodreix, yes, of a public health system, but also of the combination of private contributions. And that, therefore, is obvious, and the counselor said it in the inquiry, for example, pharmacology sees entirely private companies and the private system. But let me give you an example of what may sometimes be the use of these data by private agents: a few years ago, not four days ago – the concept of big data is probably more recent – but it is already two years ago and certainly some more, precisely, an analyst in communication information technologies, from an analysis of health data, found the correlation between an analgesic that had been introduced and that had become a lot of fashion between society and an increase in the number of incidents there. And the detection of this correlation... – that drug, not to say, disappeared from the market, because precisely this correlation was confirmed–, the detection of this correlation, and therefore of the risk of this drug, was found for a private person, not for a public person– for a private person, right? Therefore, we understand that it has positive aspects. And, as I only get twenty seconds, I dedicate to the VISC+ project, the seconds that I get to say that, effectively, it is a project that was badly born, that was poorly managed, that did not complete the conditions that require the treatment of the big data, in general, and less of the big health data, in particular, and, therefore, we give for death and burial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.111.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.112.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. Before I started, I'd like to do a preview, because this morning's length has already come out, like at least, a couple of times, and yesterday he also glided throughout the ple; remember the phrase that today was repeated textually: "We have destroyed their health care system. Yes, the state locksmiths exist. Some political traditions we've known and felt for years, and we've always supported each other – we've done it, we do it and we'll do it – with the victims of the state's warlocks, we'll always do it. But we want to remember, and to be clear, that the only ones responsible for the destruction of the Catalan health system are the political parties that have managed the autonomous administrations and the directives and entrepreneurs that have used these institutions to achieve a particular benefit. And once you say that, let's go to the police station. We are voting again, as we did in 2014, on October 2014, the end of a project that, in the same way as we said before, we understand that it decapitates us. Someone may say that we have harm, as it was also said in the morning. What we voted for in 2014 was that it ended and that today we are finally buried, because the councilman has said this repeatedly, and therefore we understand that it is, it was a project that decapitated us, because selling essential information to plan and improve our salvation is decapitating. Why provide information because private sanitation competes with public sanitation is to decapitate public sanitation, and why give up health promotion tasks in favor of pharmaceutical or insurance companies that pursue the soul of work is decapitating. Today, finally, we bury it and celebrate it. And we think it's positive and it's going to be positive for the Catalan public health system, which is why we think we're all old here and we're defending. Despite that, we would like to make some observations of respect. We understand that it is positive to stop and that it is positive to do the debate that we also approved in 2014 and that it was necessary to do and that the week that we are going to do. We believe that this debate should be and should be used to finish defining this new big data program that should be in the Catalan public system. Public management, but we also need to watch when we talk about, then, the financing of public research, because we can fall and it can fall in cases where the mass has often fallen. It is to say that the financing of public research by workers with a desire for work or insurers has caused the public sector to do its work in the private sector, through centres and public searchers, centres and searchers who should or should devote themselves to seeking interest in the collection, interests of everyone, and who end up searching for private interest, since the financing has been re-branded, conditioned and established. So it's something we keep an eye on. From here you see, too, this idea that we have also put some times on the table, on the necessary reform that falls into the Siscat, and, therefore, that we ensure that all centers with no work whatsoever disappear from the Siscat... In point 2 and point 6 we will abstain, I understand that it points to the right direction, that from the week you see, in the debate spaces we will have more room to improve it, debate it, but today we believe that we should abstain. And, now, also, we celebrate that we equip the Aquas with the capacity as the public center to manage; and, so, today, right? , we equip it with this necessary point, which is really the public management that controls the big data. And, finally, just a small point: it is obvious that we need to establish governance systems, absolutely agree, but we need to define them; and that in these governance systems we also incorporate the representatives of the people, who end up feeling people who, day by day, participate and are users of public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.113.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. Next, Ms. Marta Ribas has the word to pronounce herself on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.114.0	Yes, thank you, President. So, well, the truth is that everything has practically been incorporated, except for a Ciutadans theme, and I want to make reference to it. I want to make reference because we also do not incorporate external centres, centres outside of Catalonia or centres that were not Cerca; and with this I also believe..., I will make reference to the contribution, to the reflection that I do, from the Popular Party, Mr Santi Rodríguez respects to the exclusively public use. Yes, we keep as much caution as possible on a project like this, in which we try to do things different from how they've been done in other places, how they've been done in Catalonia so far, and try to set a pitch because things are doing well. And we must do so with the utmost caution and guarantees. And one of the possible guarantees is to bet only on those centers that you have control of some form, for example, that of accreditation that is centers Search and, therefore, whether or not you can either withdraw or sanction or do some kind of..., well, obviously, control or sanction, if you don't do things right. There are, too, shares with the companies of the CUP, which, even so, we can enter private finance with the will of saving capitalism, to use data that are very sensitive, very sensitive material, like, basically, element of negotiation. Even with the Search Centers we have for, but we want to take the risk with all the precautions and possible measures of this control. So, yes: exclusively public use, exclusively public use, because we could put many, many examples, contrary to what Mr Santi Rodríguez said before, of so many and so many investigations since the pharmacy did not get to know each other, right? , on the harmful and negative effects of a drug. And, therefore, we do not want to collaborate in this with our data, the public system. A thanks to the parliamentary groups and a special recognition to all those people who have been fighting against the VISC+ project during these last years, from the White Sea, medical professionals, research professionals, bioethics experts, data processing experts, outside this chamber, and who are now to participate in these participatory days to enrich much more than today, in this young man, we are approving with Parliament. It's, we say, sensitive material, but we've got a lot of consensus and construction. So much good is done with this country, if it were so, reflect, build and look for the public good, first of all, perhaps today it would not prove to be the Barcelona World. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.115.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Ribas. Call it a vote. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.116.0	The CUP Group has called for a separate vote on points 2 and 6. We would call it a vote without separate votes on 2 and 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.117.0	Okay. [[Eulàlia Regant and Cure ask to speak.]] Mrs. Regant...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.118.0	To ask for a separate vote on the 2nd and the 6th, but..., and the 4th. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.119.0	Separate votes on points 2, 4a and 6 were requested. Right? [[Pause.]] So, we'll start by voting these three points and then we'll vote the rest of the vote. Okay? [[Pause.]] We'll vote for point number two. The vote begins. It was approved by 112 votes in favour, against and 19 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on the 4a point. The vote begins. It was approved by 123 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number six. The vote begins. It was approved by 123 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Some applause.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into democracy and popular legislative initiatives]] [[302-00057/11]] The agenda item is: Motion following the question to the Government on democracy and popular legislative initiatives, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Anna Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.120.0	Well, good noon. If we remember, because it was a few days ago, the question we asked in the final Ple was about two very, very concrete aspects. It was a question a little sui generis, let's say so, because we are asking the Parliament and the Government at the same time, and it is seen that this is a rare parliamentary and the Rules of this chamber do not stand the innovations well, and, finally, we have had to overcome, therefore, some school in order to present the contents of this young man. We were asking the government and Parliament because it seemed to us that it was a matter of being able to improve the legislation it has to do with participatory democracy. And, on the other hand, the inquiry was also a reaction to that question to the totality that was collected, as you will recall, for Junts for Yes and the People's Party to the Proposition of the Law of the Educational System of Catalonia. As you will remember, it would be a good idea not to forget that we lost the opportunity to enter into the debate of a popular legislative initiative which was therefore drawn up by a committee that promoted more than 63 people, more than 170 organisations that gave support to it and, above all, 95,000 people, therefore, who signed that education ILP, which we could now be debating and which we lost in the opportunity. The reaction, I said, led us to reaffirm, therefore, in these two bastions: u, we need to improve the mechanisms that we have of civic participation in relation to the parliamentary chamber; and, two, it is opportune, it is convenient, it is fundamental that we continue to debate and that we continue to find the best possible model of education. Therefore, the motion that we are presenting to you – you have seen it – has two very simple points. The first, amended Law 1/2006, of the 16th of February; a simple modification of an article, which establishes that it is not possible to submit totalities to the ILP. Why? Because it is a very simple measure of participatory democracy, a very simple modification, there is no technical complexity to make this change, and, in change, we can generate a very important message, which is: when the citizenry organizes itself to bring legislative initiatives to Parliament, the Parliament brings them together and debates them. It is to open the possibility, we understand, that there was direct participation in this chamber. We understand that it is also impossible to open one of the chains..., since there are chains of these which were stipulated in the Transition that they are impossible to open, for what it seems, this little chain indeed we can open, and we would deepen into a democracy that is a little more direct and that is not so much bourgeois inspiration, as is the democracy that governs this chamber, which you decided was worth it, therefore, that in the kings, those who were responsible for the name "Spanish Transition". Therefore, it is a question of gaining a little legitimacy; it is a question of not only the parliamentary groups being the ones that have legislative initiative, and of the citizenry being the one that can take this initiative, and of running away from a little, if it is possible, from customer dynamics, and as there has not been, so we understand that it is because all groups vote favorably, because you understand, as we do, that it is worth working with at least some chain. And the other second point, I'd say, is what's referred to or makes reference to the subject of education itself. There is no councillor; in fact, Mrs. Munté, I think you are the only representative of the Government, sure you will pass it on, therefore, with all the cure that is possible. At this point, we have collected a piece of Catalonia Yes, it is, but basically, so it is also a very simple point, which also has no technical complexity, which is just a question of political will, and it is this chamber, which parliamentary groups are debating about education. We did it yesterday from a PR, we did it again today from a young woman, we did it fortnightly in the Committee on Education; we don't stop talking about education, and, on the other hand, we lose the opportunity, when we hear it, to get to grips with the problem we have in education. Yesterday, Mr. Romeva, in his answer to our question about anti-militarism, made an ode to set up problems. So let's go to the scene of the problem that education has in our country, and, therefore, we have the space to be able to talk in depth about what it is that it needs, what it is that it requires the public education of this country. José Martí said the best way to say it is to do it. So, let's do it. Let us leave the proclamations, let us leave the slogans, let us leave the flag and put ourselves to work for the public education of this country. I believe that this would be the best investments that could be made, investments that really are worth it, and not the investments that seem to have been made at the Village and Salou Recreation and Tourism Centre. Investments in Barcelona World do not bring benefits to the country; investments in public education are the only ones that bring benefits to a country. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.121.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word of Lord Albano Fachin, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.122.0	Thank you, President. It's not that much now, but it's been a few weeks, isn't it? , the exceptional legislature – the exceptional legislature, the exceptional legislature. And it is true that in these last few months we have seen exceptional things, but, of all the exceptional or impressive things that have been seen in this room, one of the most impacted me was the day this Parliament dropped the education ILP, and I was very impressed by the silence that was made in this room when the pants came out like Juntes for the Yes and the PP agreed to drop the legislative initiative, right? It was a silence..., the silence that makes it before the Anna Gabriel: two years of labor of very many people, routings of the territory, 95,000 signatures..., all this, in twenty minutes, to the rubble by Convergence, Juntes per el Si and the PP. And I can't help but make a parallel; make a parallel between this silence and the sound that was at the door of this Parliament on June 15, 2011. I don't know if you remember. And I'm paralyzing because a lot of you were here and because on that occasion, too, there was a pact, a way to vote together, Convergence and the People's Party, with these coincidences, right? And that day, therefore, she was ruling..., and we said out here, that she was governing the people, while Felipe Puig was giving us lessons of democracy at the end of the day. But 2011 and today continues to operate, it continues to operate clearly the alliance between the Catalan right and the Spanish right. I need to make it clear. And I see cares, here, of horror. Let me make it clear: the Catalan right and the Spanish right, when it suits, they do and break together, of the skeletons to the people. And I guess now – and I'll talk a lot about it, huh? And before Anna Gabriel pointed it out, right? , that if representative democracy, that if direct democracy, how they relate – we will make this debate, but I think it's a good time to put things a little on the table, because here's a lot of talk, huh? People's, people's will, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's. , and we have ballot boxes, and even here, in this same building, we make a commission of the process constitute, there come experts from all over and explain to us extensively how we can do it because citizenship is manifest and participate. Now, up there is an ILP, which is a relatively simple thing, and we carry it. So when will that democracy, that participation of the people of Catalonia come? How many Barcelona Worlds will approve until this democracy and this process comes to pass is what some people are talking about? We can reform a law – we will vote that yes –, we can urge the government to do a little bit of things coming from the citizenry – we will vote that yes – but – and we must say this – we can do little while some, here, are passing through the will of the people and after the governments of hope, not just of bait to the citizenry, of hope. Why do you say so? Because I remember that the day that Junts for Yes and the People's Party dropped the ILP, TV3 and Catalunya Radio were quiet, they stored this information in the city. This is said to rule over people's hangovers. I don't know if TV3 and Catalunya Radio are going to pick up what we're doing here, which would be fine, but I guess it's easier to rule by guessing what's done here and then going down the street to talk about the will of the people and all that stuff. So I'm done. We thank the UPC for presenting this motion, because it gives us the opportunity to put back on the table what happened here in this Parliament. Thank you, too, for having accepted the message we made. Vote for both points. But above all we will continue to denounce the cynicism of those who fill their mouths in the street of the participation of the people and then come here and, moreover, do all the contrary. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.123.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr Sergio Sanz, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.124.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies... well, I'm going to refer to..., and to fix the position of the Ciutadans Group on the motion, entering into the detail of what has been presented to us. And to say that the exhibition part seems right to us, doesn't it? In other words, referring to the ILPs as mechanisms of participation..., we think that the ILPs are a good mechanism to connect what is the opinion of society or social movements with parliamentary activity, and in this sense it serves to open up democracy and make those initiatives that may not arise from this Parliament, but that are in the citizenry, be able to access Parliament and have a debate. And in this sense we are in favour of improvements in the ILP processes, for example, in the facilitation of the collection of signatures being digital, in the reduction of the number of signatures needed, in the improvement of the deadlines and procedures for the admission of public information. This is part of our political agenda. However, already entering the proposals, on the pre-positive side, we see that there is certainly a problem of not focusing well on the relationship between participatory democracy, direct democracy and representative democracy. We think that in this Parliament all groups are responsible to the citizenry for the decisions we make here, and that, by virtue of that, the citizenry has to control us for what we do; we think that we have to be accountable, and, for that reason, because we think about the responsibility we have, we do not see reasonable that we cannot make amendments to all the popular legislative initiatives, because... I will ask you a question. Imagine that there is a popular legislative initiative to privatize health or privatize education. Do we have to enter into the debate, or could we table an amendment as a whole so that this debate does not take place, and therefore each group justifying its decision to present this amendment as a whole before society? It is an issue that seems important to us; we understand that it is done with very good will, the motion, but that perhaps it is little thought in that sense, eh? , because perhaps there are issues that can be harmful, they can start from a group of citizens, from a rather small group compared to all the people who participate in an electoral process, which concludes with the formation of the groups that we are here, and that maybe it is..., well, maybe it is little thought or maybe it is that you rely more on the street and on the demonstrations than on the representativeness of the ballot boxes. Citizenship, what we expect from those who are here, from the political representatives, is that we work rigorously, that we work diligently, with a long-term look and that we are accountable; the accountability of this chamber is fundamental, transparency, that citizens know what is done here and the reasons why we make decisions. For that reason, we are going to vote against point 1. As a parliamentary group, we will respond to the legislative initiatives that come, as we always do, which are in general..., well, almost always facilitating the debate despite the fact that there are some nuances of those legislative initiatives that do not fully fit our agenda, but always the debate is welcome, provided it fits in general terms, so, with those issues that we think are important for the common good, and do so flexibly. For that reason, we also want to recognize, from here, from this rostrum, all the social movements, all the movements of the citizenry that are carried out in order to improve society. And also because of that recognition, and because we think that the debate on education is positive, and in line with what we already voted on when the legislative initiative on education was debated here, we are going to abstain on that point. I'll leave it here. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.125.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanz. Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.126.0	Thank you, President. Counselling, Members and Members, well, the CUP raises two different questions with its own motion: one which is possibly the result of a general reflection, and which consists of asking for the punctual modification, and certainly not complex from the technical point of view, from the Law of popular legislative initiatives so as to, let us say, eliminate from the popular legislative initiative, from its procedure of processing, the procedure of debate to the totality, and therefore the possibility of statements to the totality by parliamentary groups, and the other which in the background basically demands from the Parliamentary Group of Joints for the Yes and the Government a self-same respect for something that has done relatively little that they have voted for. I have to say that there is certainly a debate, not yet, but a long time ago, about the role that direct democracy and deliberative democracy must play in contexts like ours, of democracies that actually have, like all, defects, and whether this role must be preponderant or complementary to the classic model of representative democracy that we know and that, in the background, this incarnate camra, therefore, very clearly. We are perfectly open to debate on this issue, this case, the balance that we should have, from our point of view, between elements of representative democracy, direct democracy and deliberative democracy in a democracy that wants to be advanced, that wants to deepen in the democratic logic. What does not seem to us is that addressing, at this point, this modification, contributes excessively to our vision or model of how this balance should be between these three elements. Therefore, for our part, the difficulty we pose is not the technical issue – we already recognize that it would be technically simple –, it is a question of concept and model. We do not share, at least not without a deeper debate, that a popular legislative initiative should not overcome a debate to the totality, as do the proposals of law from any parliamentary group or the bills presented by the Government. We understand that you have felt in all three cases, and one group has said that it has voted against totality statements submitted to the ILP of which we do not share the whole content, because we understand that, despite this, it is worth the fact that that debate is held in this chamber. Certainly, there is also a social debate and has often been raised by the ILP committees on whether or not parliamentary groups should submit papers to the ILP joint, because, at the head and at the end, they also have popular will, and they must respect each other, etc. The arguments of the Members of the CUP are well known. We don't share that either. We believe that we have, not only the whole right but the obligation, the parliamentary groups, to express what our position is to respect these questions and, if the opposition motion respects the content of the ILP, to present, if we consider it appropriate, a statement to the totality. For what he does to the second part, the second part of the young man, we share him and we will give him support. We have, let's say, a little confidence that, having voted so recently on the ILP and having seen what was the result of the vote, this will stop producing, but in any case, we will give it support, even though, for example, this ILP of education is an ILP of education in which, respecting the content, we have some matisses, huh? And we didn't reject it in its totality debate, and we are now supporting the fact that it is up to the government to present a project with the same objectives and the same hope. In any case, let us hope that this debate can be held in this chamber, if not so, there is also the possibility that parliamentary groups will present proposals for law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.127.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Next, the words of Mrs. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.128.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, well, first I will do a previa: Mrs Gabriel, who are not so innovative, those of the UPC; that this to present a dual inquiry, that to ask the government and the rest of the chamber, already did the People's Party the passed legislature with the same fate, or then, that it was not possible to present it. Dit aiò, this motion, in the end, with the exhibition made, both by Mrs Gabriel, of the CUP ; as Mr Albano Dante, in the end it is a custom made motion, as a ILP that voted in this Chamber and that this chamber decided that it did not pass the filter to pass to the paper. And that's the reality. This motion is not a generalist motion. In fact, already from the reading of your text it is inferred, but from the explanations that you have given here it is very clear that you are trying to recover a dynamic of an ILP that has been rejected by the representative democracy that this chamber represents, so that all ILPs automatically move on to paper. In other words, they deny the democratic legitimacy of this chamber. And that is because you have a very different concept to what representative democracy is in which we believe many of the Members who are here and, in fact, not only believe, but that we are the result of that representative democracy. You establish two types of democracy: one which is superior, which is directly emanating from popular legislative initiatives, and the other which is of a lesser category, which is what we represent here, the Members who have been chosen, in the end, also by the people, right? And we can't agree with that. And we cannot agree with that because what you intend to do with this motion is to give a privileged passport to the ILPs so that they can go directly to the paper, what they do not do and what does not happen with the proposals of law or with the bills that any of the groups that exist in this chamber, for, they present in this chamber, which they do necessarily have to go through debate in this plenary. It's not weird in the end either, is it? , because you within your party, as you practice this kind of Athenian democracy, to the ekklesia, so you are bringing it practically here through this motion, aren't you? It's not new either, is it? But it is true that we are very concerned that you want to pervert or even reconvert the democratic system and replace representative democracy with direct democracy. That, to us, the truth is that we are concerned. And we are concerned because, above all, we absolutely agree that participation must be encouraged, but that has already been done, is done and has already been improved. Only a year ago – only a year ago – the conditions for presenting popular legislative initiatives were changed. The signatures are down, and so on. In addition, less than a year ago the program of the 136 Scó, which allows... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, it's important, Mrs. Gabriel, that it allows the citizens to participate in the elaboration of projects and proposals of law that present the different parliamentary groups just by ponència, isn't it? And that's a reality. We could do that, but we're not trying to replace representative democracy for direct participation, are we? That's what you guys do. Citizen participation, yes; replacing our democracy, no. Why? Because, look, we have a perfect example these days with Brexit. It is not always – not always – to shift responsibility, to make democracy direct gives good results. And that's what's happened in Britain these days. Direct democracy is not necessarily good, and it is not necessarily the best, and citizens choose the best for their country. And, therefore, despite the fact that populism is fashionable, and that it is true that throughout Europe it has been deeply silent, and it is true that some groups in this chamber say that profile because in the photo it is very unpopular, isn't it? , to say no, that to an ILP..., seems to be against the ILP. It's not that – it's not that. I mean, what happens is we can't delegitimize our institutions. And the People's Party is not going to fool populism in any way. And for that reason, I am very sorry, but we will vote no to that motion, among other things because one of the main objectives of populism is to weaken our institutions, and you with this motion claim to weaken this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.129.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Next, the words of Mr. David Bonvehí, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.130.0	President, Members, Members, Counsellor, I begin the intervention on behalf of Junts for the Yes manifesting an obviousness, but we were willing to say it. We recognize that Juntes per el Si and put in full value the task of the citizens and collectivists of our country who represent aspirations and wills and who have been involved in these last few years in promoting popular legislative initiatives. And we say it and we want to make it clear because our vote on this motion will be against the arguments that I will now expose them, but we recognize the work, the good of democracy that these placards have done, and we recognize its work. In this young man there are two themes. One: it is intended to modify the law of the ILPs into a single reading incorporating, therefore, an important part of the law, that is, that there are no statements to the totality, and I, when I read this– and forgive you that you make use of this expression– I freaked out a little, because a year ago, here, we were debating several months ago the reform of the law of the ILPs, that all the groups participated in it and that day, in that plenary, I made a demonstration disengaged from the CUP and that today I will not do it again and that I withdraw it, therefore, at that time. But that broad debate, that broad debate, that debate where everyone participated, where everyone did papers, I think we came to a broad consensus as to how the ILP process should be. And now you have the pleasure of coming here and saying that by one reading, we modify all that law that has cost us so much to all parliamentary groups, I, the truth is that it surprised me and I think that by parliamentary dynamism and dignity of this chamber and also by the dignity of the deputies who made that law worked and well argued, so I think it is not close and therefore we will vote the first point against. After that, we also want to make it clear that we, as I say, the current regulation of the ILPs understand that it is correct, we understand that it is much more inclusive and much more flexible and it is much better to guarantee direct democracy than the other regulations that exist in the rest of the Spanish State and also in Europe; therefore, we are proud of the current regulation and, therefore, we do not need to change it as the motion says. Remember that the last motion that was made – this has already been said – but we equated the ILP committees to almost parliamentary groups in their dealings. Let us remember that it is a guarantee that in four months, from having them come here to Parliament, they will be known and debated in this House the laws and, therefore, we understand that the current regulation is more than correct. Also, contrary to what was said by some spokesman, the whole issue of electronic signature was regulated and ensuring that the collection of signatures was easier. In the second point that is raised is that it is the government, therefore, to present a draft law that reverses the content of the proposed law of the ILP that is rejected here. And it seems that there is a doubt that the parliamentary groups are going to make a serious debate and that each debate is going on in their group and that all the parliamentary technique and all the parliamentary position that we have made at the time of discussing this ILP, it seems that it is put in doubt and it seems that it is not, therefore, taking into account the will of democracy represented by this Parliament. Therefore, we cannot vote in favour and what we are saying is that the way is left for the parliamentary group that wants to put forward a bill, you do, and this parliamentary group of Junts for the Yes is going to reposition, therefore, as it does with all the initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.131.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Bonvehi. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Anna Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.132.0	Let them suggest all the interventions, what a long time it is now to answer them. To the representative of Ciutadans, I don't know if you thought I was asking a trick question and say: "I'm going to hook up these CUPs and dictate them and if a private health initiative comes in, what are you going to do? So, debate. It is obvious that we are aware that not all the initiatives that can arrive in this room via ILP will be of our ideological coincidence, it is obvious, but we are willing to debate, it is not for us. And what would happen if we opened up poses about an ILP that defends the privatization of sanitation more than it already is, let's just say, right? How little is left for him to finish consolidating total privatization? That you would defend privatization and we wouldn't. No, they would defend the concertation and the connection between public and private initiative, all of which is much better at the time of saying that it is not, therefore, to assume that you are, that you are going to privatize and because some do business with sanitation. So the cheating question didn't work for him, in this sense. I think you accuse us of little reflection, and maybe you're the one who hasn't thought much about it. Why, are you aware that the totality reviews are absolutely dissuasive because the people present these types of initiatives? If you haven't thought about it, the invitation you make, because maybe this is the problem of the privilege given by the lady of the PP, who don't present papers to the totality. Mr Ferran Pedret, of the PSC, said that parliamentary groups have a right to express their opinion. You're obvious. We also recognize this prerogative; what we ask is that we have the opportunity to express it not only in the debate to the totality, but also the opportunity to express it in detail in the debate to the articulation. And I think we could agree on that. And then, finally, each group is positioned, in relation to the joint, in what it believes, and, finally, each group votes in relation to what it considers. The lady of the PP, and I was running out of time. What a shame! You don't innovate, either. It doesn't innovate in re. If they are you, those who make motions and proposals to measure, to measure of the lobby, to measure of Opus Dei, to measure of their economic interests. Quina comes out, talk from the raccoon's heel! You already know what suits the British citizenry, and you know that it suits you not to leave the European Union. How lucky I am to have this uncertain criteria! It's you who weaken the institutions. His Interior Minister, his dome in the Valencia Country, his dome in the Islands, those who have not stopped stealing, and making fraud, and plundering the Spanish State and the Catalan Countries. Meny lessons of democracy, when I am, you direct heretics of the non-democrats. [[Some applause.]] And, together for the Yes, you're still freaking out, if you want. But it was worth it today to rescue a little the little favor you did to public education in the past Ple. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.133.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Call it a vote. [[Sergio Sanz Jiménez asks to speak.]] Mr. Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.134.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.135.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.136.0	Yeah. I just wanted to say that we are defending public sanitation, and in turn the CUP Group has given support and invested the Government that has more detailed in public sanitation throughout the history of Catalonia. [[Some applause. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-30-1902.137.0	Separate vote from point 1 has been requested. There are two points, though. So, first we'll vote on point 1 and then point 2. Okay? [[Pause.]] So we're voting point one. The vote begins. It was rejected by 19 votes in favour, 109 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on the other one, the second one. The vote begins. It was rejected by 35 votes to 70, with 25 abstentions. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. The session's up.
