ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.1.0	The session begins. Before we begin with the order of the day, I would like to greet, in the name of the chamber, the representatives of the Parliament, ex-advisors, ex- MPs and authorities who are accompanying us today, and also all citizens who follow this ple for the communication media. [[Programme debate and investiture vote by Mr Carles Puigdemont and Mr Casamajó, candidate for the presidency of the Generality]] [[201-00002/11]] The only item on the agenda of this plenary session is the debate on the programme and the investiture vote of the distinguished Member of Parliament Carles Puigdemont and Casamajó, President of the Generality of Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 146.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, the investment debate begins with the reading of the resolution of the President of the Parliament in which the candidate for the Presidency of the Generality is proposed. I pray to the secretary before I give a reading of this resolution.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.2.0	"According to Article 4 of Law 13/2008 of 5 November 2008 of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, and once consulted the representatives of the parties and political groups with parliamentary representation, proposed to the chamber the deputy Carles Puigdemont and Casamajó as candidate for the Presidency of the Generality. Palau del Parlament, 10 of generation 2016. Carme Forcadell i Lluís, President of the Parliament of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.3.0	The proposed candidate, the illustrious Lord Carles Puigdemont and Casamajó, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.4.0	Very late, very honorable president. Many honorable president, many honorable presidents Benach, Rigol, De Gispert, councillors, members of the government in office, deputies and deputies, lords and lords, people who follow them live, here in the room, to the halls empowered for such purposes, for conventional communication media, for communication media, the people who are out in the street, gathered, or in places and vile, that I know that they are following this investiture session, very late everyone. I compare before all of you, in agreement with the resignation of the President of Parliament, to formally submit my candidacy for the investiture as President of the Generality of Catalonia. At the same time, as is known to all of you, also to introduce you to the government program and, finally, if they get out, and I hope they get out, get their trust. I am aware of the circumstances in which this investiture session is being held, I do not want to store them because I believe that in the first place, I should like to give explanations to the chamber and to all the citizens who allow us to hear why we have come here and allow us to hear, too, because now we have the conditions to get far more far. I tend to remind myself of the feeling that a society that does not know how to give thanks or ask forgiveness is a society committed to its decay. Just because the political process that we have collectively proposed to offer to all citizens, to all and to every citizen of the country, a future of progress and welfare for everyone, based on solid values, that enjoin us from fabulous and inevitable diversity, in the foundations that support and ensure democratic coexistence, today I must begin by asking forgiveness and giving thanks. I forgive, above all, the citizen they have witnessed, sometimes with stupefaction and unbelief, the way we managed the explicit, clear and democratic charge they made us on 27 September. We haven't done it well, each in its own way, surely, more so, than some less well than others, surely; but it is true – or the citizens have understood it and the citizens have also, at these times, passed it on to me – that we have been able to disperse the great work done for so much, so many good people and to transform shared illusions and hopes into a national episode, little building up, to say the least. We have let many people suffer because of uncertainty that politics was opening up there where society had commissioned and defined certain that they were and are indefensible and we have taken too long to come to Parliament with a closed proposal. Some elections are not a problem in themselves, on the contrary, every time the people speak, democracy is consolidated. But the elections of March would have represented a challenge to the totality to which it does not deserve, which is the people of Catalonia. The people did their job well, participated massively and expressed themselves with an unappealable clarity, the people did not fail and this did not deserve to be addressed. So, today, we show our fellow citizens that we remain faithful to the demands they make us, to think of the country before anything else, whether they're partying or people. That is why we also need to give thanks; thanks to those who have made it possible through negotiations, who know that they have been very difficult and complex, and to those who have never risen from the table or fallen into the temperament of comfort, thanks for patience, perseverance and agreement. We all knew that we were entering an unprecedented stage of Catalan politics and that we were entering without a manual of instructions, that we were entering into a territory that had never been used in our modern history. It is, therefore, normal and understandable that we do not remain at all predictable in all and that, consequently, there are times when we have to make unexpected decisions just a few hours ago. I want to overtify and aggravate, in this sense, the courage and courage that fall to do this: the honesty and patriotism that there is when critical decisions need to be made in culminating moments and which are taken. For this reason, I must also thank the two groups who have worked patiently and accurately to bring an agreement to Parliament and the country to withdraw the legislature from this exceptional period of post-autonomy and pre-independence, to the CUP - the Constituent Creed and to Junts for the Yes, and which, above all, offers those guarantees, not only to withdraw, but to work and to dispose of parliamentary stability sufficient to be able to unfold the broad spectrum of the government program to which I will refer from here to a station. Saving the investiture but not saving the legislature would not have served as nothing. And that, finally, was understood by everyone who sat down at the table to reach an agreement, to reach a good agreement. But, above all, I am grateful to the one hundred and twenty-nine President of the Generality, the very honorable Artur Mas. For many reasons, some coming from the moon, and in particular for having promoted this proposal and having done honor to the dignity that will forever characterize its mandate and that has inspired all and every decision it has taken in this five years. President, you have had to assume the mandate with more difficulty and with the worst crisis we have ever known and, at the same time, you have led with admirable conviction and rigour a political process of great magnitude and complexity, surrounded by misunderstandings, attacks of all kinds and unacceptable pressures in a democratic society. And just when there was a parliamentary majority explicitly compromised with Catalonia's independence and a city mandate in that sense, you decided to take a step at the side, when you had the whole right, because you won it, to preside over this country. Your gesture is painful for you and for many of us, we do not love it, but it is an exceptional and exemplary gesture, full of the heart you have practiced and always asked us and you have asked me particularly at the time of taking on this commitment. And it's a gesture that explains, too, why today's joy at the investiture of a new president, which is, but it's more outside this chamber than inside, which is, if I may say so, the priority that they should have these things, when a parliament smiles but the street cries, the country has a huge problem because its institutions have lost their capacity to represent. They have therefore lost part of their democratic capacity. And when a parliament – and, in particular, when the President of the Generality – takes sacrifices to preserve the mandate of the ballot boxes, the citizenry strengthens its confidence in its representatives and in its work and enriches itself with hope, illusion and compromise, the land on which the societies that are wanted are built. I wouldn't have liked to accept your proposal if you didn't know that we'd keep you on the side of everything that the government and I would ask of you. Because the culmination of the process needs all of us and needs you and your prestige and knowledge, we have nothing left. We have to go outside, we have to go out explaining and we have to go out convincingly until we reach the culmination of the final stage of this process, of the hand of a number every major couple of people. There are many today, of course, and there are many more than we were just five years ago and what to say about just twenty years ago. This allows us to start this stage with conviction and full democratic legitimacy, but we lack more, and everyone is summoned. We all know who the burden is on us citizens: it's clear – it's clear at least for those who want to see it and who don't want to store it under the captivator. We must start the process to equip Catalonia with the indispensable tools that give it the ability to respond to the needs of the present and the hopes of the future. We've been missing these things for many years, we know enough about this Parliament and various debates that have taken place as witnesses. But today we know that if these things are not our own, we will not be able to dispose of them and, if we do not have them, we will lose all opportunity to serve people as they are and as they deserve, and, therefore, to transform the country into a space where we can plan and execute the hopes of the future; we will cease to be, if we do not have these tools, a birth, to become a resignation. Politics, if it's resigned, it's mechanography, it doesn't have soul, it doesn't have knowledge and, therefore, it doesn't have the ability to connect with people, it's pure resource management, sometimes even less and sometimes less, but it's not politics in the noble sense of the term and in the sense that the good people who trust it and in what way still trust it. Therefore, in the government program that I present to you continuously is the son of this task city and of this political culture that is rebellious against resignation. But this, which costs little to proclaim and identify, so that it is done with rigour, compromise, manners and language that most people expect from their institutions and representatives, which we can do well. This country knows how to do things well, starting with the government in office, which has acted loyally and with great responsibility in this transitional period and to which I would like to thank its compromise. The country has worked, at least on what they call the Government of the Generality, and the people have always been attentive, and continuing for civic, social, voluntary, sports, cultural, environmental, etc. entities, which are a real network, an impressive network of compromises and daily work, and following for entrepreneurs, autonomists, workers. We need to do this well and to deploy the Plan of Government and begin to walk to the light of which we have already approved in the declaration of 9 November: to start the process to form an independent state in Catalonia, that the decisions of the Parliament of Catalonia are sovereign decisions, to open a process constitute a civic participatory basis and to offer permanent willingness to dialogue and negotiation, obviously with the Spanish State, with the European Union and with the international community. In this respect, I would like to recall what President Mas said at his first session of the investiture of this legislature on 9 November about the ingenious work we have to take on in the next few months, without delay and without reason, that they will buy the following commitments. U, culmination of the process in its participatory, civic and associative phase; it is an important process in the articulation of Catalonia that we want, because it is truly a colossal opportunity, unpublished in our recent history, to call people to participation in the collective construction of the new country, otherwise it could not be done. Two, the definite design of the state structures and their pose has been set. Three, dealing with Parliament's preliminary draft procedural law. Four, processing of the law of legal transition. And five, full internationalization of the process of construction and constitution of the future independent Catalan state. While I recall these commitments that are unalterable, I would like to emphasize that I am also fully aware that we are starting a process that is easy and comfortable, that we will put value and courage to it, but neither fear nor renounce; a process, also essential, if we want to serve as close to our citizens, their families, their life projects or their professional projects. The country, we'll never forget each other, that's all of us. Catalonia is inclusive, which is when it's stronger. That's why it's different in cultures, in languages, in costumes, in creces. Its landscape has been made by generations of Catalans, from those who belong to families who have fallen in time to those who have just arrived, from those who come to spend their money on tourism that they expect worthy refuges. We have done so and we will do so in order to meet the social, economic, cultural and environmental challenges that we have ahead of us and that are indefensible for those who are willing to build up a modern, democratic, supportive and responsible country project. As you can already imagine, the government program that I am presenting repeats the government program that President Mas presented to you at the 9 November session. It couldn't be any other way, because this is the compromise with which Together for the Yes we presented ourselves to the elections, and, despite the fact that the candidate submitting it is not the same, the program, yes, because this is the program that we would have applied to have been able to pull forward the two investment sessions that preceded this. Therefore, I remember, on the title of the relationship, the three great families of priorities that inspire and inspire the action of the new government and the legislative impulse that will be due. And in this sense I carry the words of President Mas, when I said – first priority – the Catalonia that we want to do must be, inexcusably, a country that is fairer, fairer, more prepared, more religious, safer and healthier. Second, the second priority: Catalonia that we want must be a country that offers more work, more stable work, more quality, more dynamic, more creative, more open. The third priority: the Catalonia we want to make must be a more transparent country, an example of good public and democratic practices, more participatory and more modern. The deployment of these three priorities conforms to a solid plan of government and ambitions, designed to give answers – some immediate, because they are urgent, others not so much – to the demands and expectations of our society. The program offered by Junts per el Sí parteix, as the first indelible element of our brand of reference, of the difficult situation that saw an important part of the people of the country. It is certain that the economic crisis presents today a lot different from what it presented in its worst moments, it is true, but its devastating effects on the spaces of many Roman Catalan families, and some – let's say it with all the emphasis – threaten to chronicle if we don't have the tools to avoid it. We are overcoming the economic crisis at a pace that does not face the overcoming of the social crisis. It is fixed that overcoming the economic crisis depends on a combination of factors, among which government action is very important but neither the one nor the main one, because to a large extent it depends on those who have the ability to invest, innovate, create wealth, etc. On the other hand, the overcoming of the social crisis depends to a large extent on the welfare state's network, and, if this network is weakened by the injustice and lack of correspondence of the State towards the government that has responsibility for its statutory powers, then it is harder to look after all the people who go through it badly. Unfortunately, we did, and we did it by putting before anything else the attention to the people, the attention to the most disadvantaged, the attention to those people who know they are at a clear risk and that we try to stop being there as soon as possible. I therefore refer to what has already been published in the session paper of 9 November, but I would like to remind you of the axes, of these three great families of priorities. The first, for making a country fairer. It is clear that Catalonia has to take a very clear and very defined look at the protection of the weakest or most vulnerable, and in this sense, inescapably, urgently, the Pla d'emergència sociale, a pla d'emergència of which there are already 1,000_million euros to fight the Pla de Lutita against the poor 2015-2016. The compromise of the reform of the minimum income of insertion towards a guaranteed income of citizenship. It's a compromise we have to deal with to fight precariousness and vulnerability. Protection of the right to housing. We are witness to all who are or have been mayors, to the enormous importance they have at these times of public housing policies and to the need for tools that we lack, day-to-day tools, tools that we know, that we could serve them and that we would be able to serve them much better if we held them to the brim in order to achieve that the proclamation of a compromise in the protection of the right to housing has practical and immediate consequences for our people. This is, therefore, a third point in this first great family of priorities. Fourthly, the long-term salvation of life, for a new model of health and integral social care in which, obviously – and I repeat, because no one has any doubts about it – the Catalan Government will maintain the measures that have already been taken for the Government at its time, from health care assistance to all people living in Catalonia, regardless of their administrative situation. But we have to walk equally towards an integral model of salvation and attention, as it appears in the government compromise expressed on November 9. Five, an inclusive and successful Catalan school. Being aware of the limitations and shortcomings we have, we cannot jump in front of or guarantee to our people what is the foundational pillar of the construction of a society, which is an essential teaching of quality. Experience shows in a rough way – because we have examples to give and to sell – the experience shows, now, that only having a state can guarantee the survival of the current model of Catalan school consent; otherwise, this model is hardly threatened. And, therefore, in the line of continuing to increase school success in Catalonia, as it has been in these past years, we will continue, as it could not be in any other way, explaining the Catalonia Education Law, which was – and I remember it well, because at that time I was at the Education Commission – the result of a broad consensus on his day for Parliament. Yes, the cohesive society, which supports the families and the great people; therefore, it will draw up a Catalan law promoting personal autonomy, an international adoption law, a model of comprehensive care for the aging and a draft law supporting the families and will, of course, apply the Decree of the Council of the Great Gent of Catalonia to materialise the constitution of the new Council of Great Persons of Catalonia. Setè, access to culture in equal conditions, as a guarantee of the future, is, to say, a religious country as a guarantee of the future country; the elaboration of the state of the artist; to age for the Catalan to be recognized and accepted as a full right language in all international organizations; the creation of the Catalan cultural community; the approval of the new Pla de museus de Catalunya and a unique cataleg of the museum and national founs; the drafting of integral plans of music, book, visual arts, etc. Culture is one of the main elements of the economies of advanced societies and it is one of the fundamental and essential elements that guarantees social cohesion, structural social cohesion and social cohesion, which then has a multiplier effect on the investment of public assumptions destined for areas more directly of social type. On the other hand, in this first large family of priorities: a host and open and socially developed country, which means continuing to work in the strategy of gathering refugees, naturally generating a stable framework of relations with UNHCR; ensuring additional schooling and assistance for refugees who may be arriving in Catalonia; providing coverage, and healthcare response, to these refugees, to whom the health care agency will be fairly targeted and offering a programme of psychological care; the design of the new Citizenship and Migration Plan 2017-2020; the reinforcement of the Catalan Migration Agency, and, in addition, a whole series of materials related to crime. Nove, a model of social concertation that cohesive the country. Therefore, continue to implement the Support Plan for the third social sector and the Law of Volunteering; the adoption of a new law specific to the promotion of associationism; the development of a plan for the promotion of community action in Catalonia, and the approval of a specific instruction to promote the introduction of social aspects in public procurement by all departments and all entities in the public sector of the Generalitat de Catalunya, and the creation of the Council of Disability in Catalonia. Desè, creation of the Catalan agency of social security. This is a parliamentary agreement calling for us to make one of the laws that will prioritise this chamber, which is the creation of the Catalan social security agency. It is the axis on which the social policies of the future Catalan state are articulated, as it could not otherwise be, and, at the same time, it will assume the benefits that currently cover Spanish social security, between these – as it does not escape – pensions and the performance of theatur. According to a large family of priorities announced in the Junts per el Sí government commitment: a country with more and better work. We know that; I, since I was mayor, five years ago, have usually opened every ordinary session of the assembly reading the facts of the day concerning the city of Girona of the previous month, with the aim that no one lost sight of all the directors, all of them, the twenty-five, the government and the opposition, that from that moment on all the time we went to discuss had for purpose the people who cannot follow, the people who are at the time. Therefore, to make this priority, to make attention to the people who are not employed or the people who are looking for the most and the best work, one of the objectives of the Government perfectly married to the tradition that is required from the most democratic municipalism and most compromised with the country. Therefore, we need a professional training adapted to the labour market, because it has already demonstrated – and could much more with the necessary tools – that it is an effective tool in the fight against the dark, and we know it. We know who we know about vocational training programs that affect our municipalities. What's important is this job, and what's in it is the resources, and how well we could help so many people that could easily click to get this quality and lasting job that a country has to offer to its citizens. Obviously – according to – I support small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed entrepreneurs. They are the weak trunk of the productive economy, because it is a threatened trunk, and precisely this is one of the trunks in which the socio-economic model of Catalonia rests with more confidence, and with more tradition, and with more identity; it is good to protect in this sector. And, therefore, small and medium-sized enterprises, the pimec, the autonomes, need to know what is the capture of a new country in relation to its reality, because they know what is the capture of the old country in relation to its reality. And it's not that they don't like people, not: it's that it hurts them, it's that it goes against them, and they deserve that for the first time they have the opportunity to count with a government that has the necessary tools, that they speak their own language, that it is in their skin and, therefore, that they are a partner, a partner disinterested in their progress and consolidation. Thirdly, the reinvigoration of industrial policy and support for the export economy. No one misses the importance that this area has in consolidating the socio-economic model of our country of the future: the deployment of industrial strategy for Catalonia; the establishment of the first RIS3CAT communities; the creation of the support office for industrial and technological patents; the creation of the support body to finance exports; the implementation of the second phase of ordering the Catalan support system for innovation, or the impetus of the planning and modernization of industrial policies, are to mark, are some of the days with which we will make this cyst. Fourth, a trade, tourism and quality consumption. We have..., many years ago we have overcome the struggles for quantity, and we know that it is perfectly compatible – and we know it because we have a prepared sector – the reconciliation between quantity and quality. And we know perfectly well that in the diversity of tourism models, in the diversity of tourism targets and markets, there is one of the keys to the success and consolidation of a sector that represents a huge pes in Catalonia's GDP, and in particular of some regions, and in particular of some populations, and in particular of some labour sectors and auxiliary enterprises. Therefore, it is indefensible that we have in trade, in tourism and in consumption one of the identifiable elements of the governance plan of the new Government, which I hope can be constituted from this session. Five, an ecosystem of research and innovation. I will not be explaining what you already know, which has been explained enough, the brilliant successes achieved in this area for the government of President Mas. We are an international power, and we must continue to feel, but we need more resources, more crosses, more complicity. Therefore, it will be necessary to focus on drawing up a law on the search system, with a comprehensive and country-specific view, and a science-based, essential sponsorship law; to implement a research and innovation strategy for the intellectual specialisation of Catalonia, RIS3CAT, through collaborative projects, R+D+I, with the objectives of Europe 2020; to start the activities of the Diagonal Campus - Besòs of the Polytechnic University of Catalonia, which seems to me to be saying to me that they are very ready; to create an industrial teacher program that allows the temporary mobilization of the professorship to the industry, as a mechanism for promoting the transfer of technology and knowledge, and to define a strategic proposal for a comprehensive system of scholarships and aid for the Catalan university system. Yes, a country with competitive infrastructure. Certainly I, for the sake of Girona's being, should no longer explain this to you, but you know, as important as we do now – yes – some infrastructure like this country needs. He won't tell anyone we haven't been patients. He won't say we didn't understand. He won't say we weren't willing to do what it was because those who had responsibility for it did it. And also – and also – the full range of services that the Government of the State can present in this sense is highly deficient. Therefore, we need to make an inventory of infrastructures that can be assumed by the Generality; we need to define an individualized management model of airports; we need to work, indefusibly, to improve the rolling stock and to complete the long-distance public transport network, with Express services. cat from this year 2016; we need to set up line 9 of the metro; we need to deploy the T-Mobility and the implementation of the Law on Public Transport Financing; we need to develop the National Pact for Energy Transition; we need to keep our eyes open to turning Catalonia into an intelligent, international reference region, deploying the SmartCAT strategy, and we need to consolidate the Barcelona technology hub, with the support of the initiatives that revolve around the World Mobile Congress, the Smart City Expo or the Internet of Things exhibition. Seven, for a camp and a catal sea with your own Europe and based on quality and proximity. Therefore, new interdepartmental rural development plan, catal agrarian guarantee fund, promotion plan of the agricultural and ecological production 2015-2020, enterprise agrarian training system and a plan of promotion of the food and products of the land and the sea. Secondly, an environmentally and territorially sustainable country. Therefore, in the short term, it will be necessary to put the focus on the impetus of the Climate Change Law; the creation of the agency of the environment and of the territory, which allows to consolidate a mark of rigour and prestige in the territorial and environmental themes; a national pact on water that you plant and that exceeds the anachronistic plantations of the Hydrological Plan of the State. And, if I may, it's more urgent than ever. I wouldn't want to, so... sorry... the new, the new point of this block: the central bank of Catalonia. We have the opportunity to create professional, independent and transparent institutions that give credibility to the financial system and protect regulators, businesses and citizens without interference. We're on call. Who says the opposite or sins of ingenuity or lies. But it is an indispensable instrument in the project that has gained the approval of the citizenry. Dese, the herd of his own accord. It is true that we have reached a parliamentary agreement that sets as a priority a new legal framework around the future Catalan heritage. Therefore, at this time, we are working on the best specialists, and among the activities that are planned to highlight the following: the strengthening of the organizational structure of the own estate and the continuation of the deployment of the collection and tax management network; the provision of the ATC, of the organizational structure, of the personnel resources and materials necessary for the consolidation of the own estate, and the creation of mechanisms to set aside the different bodies that will allow the exercise of full autonomy in fiscal matters; that is, the fiscal council of Catalonia, the Institute of Tax Studies, the Catalan office of international taxation, the Duke of Catalonia, the Catalan agency of real estate, etc. The third big family of priorities: a country with good practices. In the first place, the elaboration and the compromise of the legal marks relating to the process constitute. This is a capital job. We have a duty to compliment the parliamentary mandate, because it is approved, and because it is the will of this Parliament and because it is the will of the citizenry, and we cannot look any further. Therefore, the declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia of 9 November, opened this process, and now we can no longer stop using it, because I hope that at the end of this session we already have the instruments to be able to bring it to practice. This Government will therefore have to initiate the negotiating agenda with the Spanish State, as well as the European and international agenda for the recognition of the mandate in favour of the constitution of the new State that is next to the future constitution, which must be referred to for citizenship. And this is a task that will not only affect the Government, it will not only affect the Parliament, and that will require the participation of many people; many people, among which I count with President Mas; many people, among which I count with so many people who have linked, from other fronts, to this project. Because this, let's insist on it one more time, it's not a policy project, it's not a project, it's not just an institution project that we actually lead, that actually, we make decisions, this is a coral project – this is a coral project. This is a collection project. This is a project in common with a vast majority of the people. And, therefore, the duty we have, and we have right, but the duty we have, is to stop the ear, it is to listen and act if we want to continue to exercise political representatives; otherwise, here we would probably have a lot of work that we would not do. Second, more momentum to transparency and new measures of democratic regeneration. We need to move forward in aspects such as the development of the White Paper on Participation and Democracy, together between Government, entities and citizens. Inexcusably – and this time yes – we must draw up the new electoral law of Catalonia, which correctly interprets the wishes of today's society, but which understands the wishes of the future and the demands of the future. So, a modern law. And as modern law, an exemplary law, and as exemplary law, a law participated by everyone and accepted by everyone; and, therefore, it must have as the immediate consequence, also, major quotas of governance, of better governance and of civic participation in governance. Obviously, the impetus and development of the law on transparency and accountability of public activity and the approval of the law of transparency regulations, access to public information and good governance. The drafting of a law of contracts of the public sector of Catalonia. The open government system, carried up to the maximum you can donate. Electronic democracy projects to boost participation on the basis of transparency and access to information to make Catalonia a country with a well-active and well-involved citizenship, and from here all the commitments associated with electronic democracy, access to data, that you know. The complete compliment of the Transparency Agency's transparency criteria. Third, a modern, efficient, loyal and collaborative public administration. Therefore, from this point of view, the law of local world governments, the law of local governments of Catalonia, is also an inescapable requirement to be able to establish the model of local government of Catalonia, which contains the new law of local finance of Catalonia, and which contains a new law of order of the territory of Catalonia, without which we can not suffice or cannot build up in a very solid way a new country to have, because it is the vocation and because it is also the one that asks the people, in one of their phonative fathers, the local world. The local world is called upon to play a role role in the construction and definition of Catalonia of the future, models of governance, models of co-management, participation, accountability. Because the local world is... – and many of the people I know here who have held or hold local, municipal responsibilities – the local world is the one that is most in contact with the citizenry, it is the one that gives answers or it is the one to which the people expect me to give answers. Fourth, a country with more justice and security. It is necessary to develop the Judicial Equipment Board 2014-2020 and the Prison Equipment Board for this same period; the planning and actions for the implementation of the judicial office in six judicial parties; the planning and implementation of the new organizational model of the tax office; and the development of strategic lines of mediation to boost its use. And it is clear that it will be necessary to develop all of a country's own internal and international security structures. I cannot fail to express, more explicitly in this speech, the challenge of responding to the threat of international terrorism. We wear a year on a 4_on_5 level, which causes society a high degree of anxiety. Since the government, we have to offer, once more, the maximum cooperation with all the forces and security features, and we want to close the strategic lines of the specific anti-terrorist operating program, which carry out the Squadron Mossos, with the aim of ensuring at all times an adequate and shared response with the aim of always fighting for a society without any type of violence, or in which no type of violence is stubborn and, still less, understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few hours ago I was mayor of Girona. In fact, I've filed the waiver and the ple is summoned tomorrow morning. And, therefore, I had not thought, as you can imagine, that today I would be here in this situation. Therefore, you will understand that this has not been an easy speech for me either, that I have not had the time to prepare it as well as my self-requirement always asks, and I hope that, in this sense, I have the understanding that I have good to have. I had the city in my head, and I have a huge admiration for Girona, which sometimes costs me to hide. I leave the mayor in return, but convinced that it is the step that needs to be taken and that it is the service that I am now in a position to do. It's not for cowards, it's not for fear and it's not for cam flow; it's not for comfort. It's up to us to take responsibility even if they're not the ones you imagined. This happens to us all, and the first to President More. But at Girona's town hall and town hall there are after a great deal of things that, on one scale or another, are indispensable for governing a country. Girona is a school of great people from whom I learn every day that I approach; those who are lucky enough to know, those who have been lucky enough to know or those who have the opportunity, through the magnificient services of the municipal archives, to be able to settle myself in their knowledge and in their work. There are also his lands, the lands of Girona, which gave mid-century XIV the first president of the Generalitat, Berenguer de Cruilles, and which gave admirable characters to the length of the centuries for their values and talents, like Josep Pallach, who today just thirty-nine years ago he died. Girona is also the door for which Catalonia has entered the UNESCO Memory of the World Register, thanks to the book of the trade union, of the 15th century. I make these references not just for the historical character, but because they have to see with the present. Today, a gyro can become the one hundred and thirty president of an institution that started another gyro. It means that we are not an invention of the Constitution or of the Transition. Today we want to be sovereigns to help our people, the same way they did the more than two thousand pages of reminder that they went to assembly during the months in the different parishes of the dioceses of Catalonia to defend their rights and become so, as UNESCO recently recognized, the first precedent of the humane struggle of the popular classes to abolish servitude. The book begins with a sentence in which I will read it to you because I understand the importance that UNESCO has already given to this document, which is the Municipal Archives of Girona, the Book of the Union recalls Girona: "The bad uses are, in all senses, absolutely horrible to the law of nature, to the writings and to the divisive precept. So, in the 15th century, there were already people who were gathered in the assembly to fight against people who oppressed and who coerced them a freedom, and who would go out, though in that case they had to reveal themselves against power. And they did so for a sense that after, long after, others, through the universal declarations of the rights of the man, would gather, with a witness that we have the honor to keep at home and that tells us that we cannot forget the past because in it there is a part of the future and of the justification of why we do things. Cal, tanmateix, at this moment, a serene and open attitude; humble, but ambitious; respectful and respectable. And above all, never lose sight of the temporality of this responsibility, which I will assume if all of you give me your trust. Surely, it is more temporal than ever, because we live an unrepeatable moment that probably needs unrepeatable leadership. And that requires us to leave our hair on it. And I promise you, I'll leave my hair there. Those who know me know that I can make this promise, they know that I can ask for this trust, even those who are sure, and I know, who voted against the investiture. They'll know and I can guarantee that I'll leave my hair and that to the people who accompany me in this path I'll demand, as the president did, but to the people who accompanied him, that they leave their hair. And thanks to that, sure, we're not just gonna do the right thing, we're gonna get out of it. We have, at this time, the long way to complete the process begun a few years ago with great mobilizations and a great democratic response by the people of the country. Surely it's the most complex and uncertain of all that we've gone through, and successfully, until today. This too will culminate successfully. But we need all of us, we'll have to gather with the people who are willing to help us when we need it, which is not much, more than you can imagine. That's why, I like, modestly, but demandingly, too, and they'll hear me do it, ask for the maximum..., to everyone. That's not what I'm asking for, or who I know is part of this investment and governance agreement, but for all members of the Catalan Parliament without exception. They ask and I like to demand the highest dignity of the moment. In Miquel Pairolí, one of the great prosists who donated this country, and sadly disappeared too young, in full creative fruitfulness, left a note with which I want to cloister my speech today. He said that "dignity builds personality, as pride tends to destroy it. So let's leave pride, agafem dignité. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.5.0	The session is suspended for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.6.0	It's part of the session. In accordance with Rule 146 of the House Rules, the debate will take place following the sequence agreed for the Board of Spokespersons, with a maximum time for each 30-minute parliamentary group. The candidate can use the word as many times as I ask, without a time limit. When the candidate responds individually to one of the Members who have spoken, the candidate will have a straight line of time equal to the one purchased for the candidate. If you have answered the replies, which will also be time-limited, the group may have a counter-replication of five minutes. The vote for the investiture of the President of the Generality will be made public by appeal, in accordance with Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. We shall now proceed to the statements of the representatives of the parliamentary groups. First of all, there is the illustrious lady Inés Arrimadas, president of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.7.0	Thank you, Madam President. The Councillors, the President-in-Office, the authorities, the people who accompany us from the public, the Members of Parliament, the Members of Parliament, "what they did not give us directly to the ballot boxes, has now been corrected through the negotiations: this sentence, spoken yesterday textually by the Lord But, sums up perfectly what is his concept of democracy. Mr. But he didn't like the outcome of the 27 September autonomic elections, he didn't like it. He wanted to see these elections as a plebiscite – that's what he had said a lot of times – and he wanted a social majority in favour of independence; but he didn't have it, and that's not just us, but he said a lot of people, even Juntes for the Yes or the UPC, who are exactly with us today. Mr. Baños has already said: "We have lost the plebiscite on the same day as the elections; or even Mr. Homs, Convergence candidate for the general elections: "There is no majority to complete the process. I believe that in democracy only the citizens can correct the result of some elections and only the ballot boxes can correct the result of the ballot boxes. And Mr. Mas did not want to put the ballot boxes, the real ones, the legal ones, the ones that represent us all, the ones that have guarantees; those to you are very afraid, because every time you put them they have less support and because, as you yourself have recognized these days, if you put the ballot boxes back in danger the independence project was put in jeopardy. The fear of the real ballot box, the internal pressure of his own party in the face of the little hope they had of having a good result in front of the elections, has made Mr. Mas today not the candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat. Obviously, they could not afford to go to the polls knowing that their project would have less support than they had in the past elections, which was already less than they imagined. Obviously, they could not go to elections with a divided party, with a party that has lost the majority and social support that it has traditionally had in Catalonia and with a party affected by very serious cases of corruption that directly affect the leadership of the same party. Therefore, Mr. Mas's decision to do what he had denied he would do for three months – which we already see, then, what the value of Mr. Mas's word is – is precisely fear of the ballot box. He preferred to correct in the offices what he knew would correct the ballot boxes. Furthermore, it must be acknowledged that Mr Mas has an extraordinary capacity, which is the capacity for rupture. It has broken the federation of Convergence and Union, that federation that has been able, I insist, to generate large political majorities in Catalonia; it has broken its own party, and it has even been able to break even the UPC. But the most serious of all is not that it has broken Convergence i Unió, it is not that it has broken Convergence, it is not that it has broken the CUP : the most serious is that it has divided Catalan society. And that's a dubious honor that Mr. Mas is going to take as a political legacy. And today we're going to invest Mr. Mas – we're going to invest Mr. Mas – more of the same. Because if Mr. Mas had (remor de veus)... – yes, yes – if Mr. Mas had sufficient reason to go home, Mr. Mas does not go home, and these days I believe that he himself has reiterated much in this idea that he does not leave, that we have to rely on him for the present and for the future. And what better to count on him than putting forward, putting in the presidency a person named finger that is in the image and likeness of Mr. Mas. And it is that, certainly, there are many political similarities, because I do not have the pleasure of meeting either personally, but there are many political meanings shared by Mr Puigdemont and Mr Mas. One that I think is very important is that Mr Puigdemont also has a lot of experience, has a great experience in using Catalan institutions and putting them at the service of independence, this time since municipalism, as good president of the Association of Municipalities for Independence. He has experience, Mr. candidate, of spending taxpayers' money, of all Catalans, whether independent or not, of promoting the independence cause. In this we know that he is More, he is more of the same. They also share something else, and it is that they are believed – both of them – that politicians, in the 21st century, we can be above democratic laws and justice. In this, it is certainly more of the same. And I also believe that Mr Puigdemont will not be a president who can represent all Catalans. And I believe that today Mr Puigdemont has been sincere and said that he did not expect, until a few hours ago, to be the next president of the Generalitat; I am convinced that this is the case, among other things, because he has not even given him time to delete his Twitter, and we have been able to recover what are the signs of his poor moderation, what are the signs of his lack of representativeness and respect for all citizens, regardless of how they think. I believe that there are tweets on your account that truly show that you cannot be a person moderate enough, respectful enough to all Catalans to be a representative of all of them. And so are the dates. Today I think you have made a very moderate selection of appointments – I think some, I absolutely share, are very pretty – but, of course, a few months ago you had to select appointments at one of your independence rallies, because you were not as moderate as you appeared today in your speech. For example, he selected an appointment as that «the invaders of Catalonia will be foragitats of Catalonia. I believe that today you sincerely wanted to give an image of modernity, of moderation, which your political and personal trajectory certainly does not support. In addition, Mr'more of the same also shares a characteristic, and that is that he has not been number 1 on any list, not even in his own province. We thought we were going to have number 4 president for Barcelona, and in the end we seem to have number 3 president for Girona. That's what you guys look like, too. And I believe that another thing they share is that they believe – and so they express – that the blame for everything that happens in Catalonia lies with the rest of Spain. Before he spoke also... – if the tweets that come to us are true; if not, you have the opportunity to deny it –, that the State is a sewer – the State is a sewer – and he is also responsible for the social cuts that we have in Catalonia. I believe that a president who does not assume that Catalonia's resources can be better allocated to social policies than to political chiringuitos is a president who is going to be continuousist about what we have had so far. And besides, if I tell you the truth, you have agreed on one thing with Mr. Mas that I thought I wouldn't do it, I really trusted that you weren't going to make the same mistake as Mr. Mas: in your investiture speech – let me see if you follow Mr. Mas's steps – you haven't talked about corruption, you've forgotten! You haven't had a second to talk about corruption. Do you know that this is the second most important problem of Catalans? It is not the identity of the DNI, it is not being Spanish: it is that our public representatives rob us from the institutions. And you haven't found time at that time so moderate and with a speech that I tell you that in some parts, and in some appointments, you might even share, you haven't had time to talk about corruption. Moreover, you come from the same party as Mr Mas, the same party, because, which is involved, your dome is involved in serious cases of corruption. You haven't talked about 3_per_cent, you haven't talked about measures to fight corruption. I really thought they weren't going to look like that, but they've been identical – identical – not a word. I believe that in the end we have what we thought we were going to have, that it is a president put to the finger for an illegal challenge, that it does not have the majority of Catalans and that it is far from social problems. That's what it's like to have more of the same. And I believe that in a scenario like the current one, at an important moment, at a difficult time for the Catalans, we need more than ever a good opposition. When the government leaves its functions aside, when the government stops serving the Catalans, it is when it is most necessary to have a firm, loyal, sensible, dialogueal opposition in the Catalan Parliament. And I'll tell you why – I'll tell you why. Because really you, in the last agreement that you have reached with the UPC..., we could refer us to other agreements, but in the last one you show a very serious thing, and it is that you are going to make a health cordon to all opposition groups. You..., the UPC has committed..., you have forced them, in that exercise, for some have described it as humiliation, to say that you are not going to vote with the opposition groups. I think you have to remember a figure that I think you really miss: Citizens, Socialist Party, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and PP we have more votes than Junts for Yes and the CUP. Making these four parliamentary groups a health cord is making the majority of Catalans a health cord. And that is not worthy of a government that wants to represent all citizens. If you agree to do that, if you believe that is normal, if you agree to that part of the agreement, I think you are not prepared to be a president representing all Catalans, working for all Catalans. I believe that before a government that excludes, we need an opposition that dialogues, we need an opposition that feels, that sees that, above differences, there are the problems of Catalans. Moreover, since we have a government that does not speak of corruption, that denies that there is corruption, that does not want to name it in its investiture speeches, we need more than ever an opposition that speaks of corruption and that puts on the table measures to fight against this scourge of society, of politics, that affects society, which is the opposition. And we'll tell you one thing: you've been lucky with the opposition you've had in recent years; you were very lucky to have opposition leaders to Republican Left and Mr. Junqueras as head of the opposition. You got the government agreement not to talk about corruption. Well, what a defense of Catalans is to make a government agreement that doesn't talk about corruption! Now, that, of embassies, of doing the Catalan social security agency, of all that, of spending money on structures, that's all they want. Now, of youth, for example, they did not speak; of corruption... They have managed to do the same with the UPC; Mr. Mas has a capacity, truly, extraordinary, and it is to use the opposition as he would like. He has had it so far; I tell you that, as leaders of the opposition, in Citizens they will not get us to do that. But in the UPC, in your agreement, in that so extensive agreement, so many pages, you don't talk about corruption – you don't talk about corruption. Is that an opposition to the Government of Catalonia? Fortunately, we have another opposition in the Government of Catalonia, which, while the Government does not want to talk about corruption, while the Government covers corruption, there is going to be an opposition that unravels it, there is going to be opposition that presents measures to combat this. Moreover, I sincerely believe that Catalonia has very serious social problems: families that do not arrive at the end of the month, evictions, people who have to give their pension to live with them all their family. And that is incompatible with staying focused on our time, on our money, on our effort, on moving on the path of independence. Because I also believe that there are a lot of superfluous expenses in Catalonia that could be spent on people who need it the most. There is a great deal of room to eliminate political chiringuitos and to devote what really matters, to shielding health and education. And so, as long as we have a government willing to use the money of the municipalities and the Generalitat to promote independence, we will have an opposition that suggests that the money of the citizens must be destined for the citizens, not for politicians, or not for independence. I believe that, moreover, a government of the Generalitat should have the capacity to negotiate with the Government of Spain; but you have closed every door to negotiation. I believe that you are following the worst negotiating strategy that the Government of the Generalitat has been able to follow in history, because there are legitimate demands that we Catalans have to make before the Government of Spain, legitimate. And I think we could have an agreement, I don't know if it's unanimous, but absolutely majority to go to the Government of Spain and ask for a better system of financing for the autonomous communities, to give more resources for the health and education of Catalans; in that I think we could have an absolutely broad agreement in this Chamber. Or go to the Government of Spain and legitimately demand that the Mediterranean Corridor be launched once and for all, that infrastructure so necessary for our industry, so necessary for our economy. Or the Rodalies system; I believe that thousands of people use the Rodalies system every day to go to their jobs, to go to their homes, and it is clear that an improvement of those services is needed. And there is also a responsibility of the Government of Spain – there is also a responsibility of the Government of Spain – : it has not wanted to reform the system of financing of the autonomous communities, it has had other priorities, empty airports throughout Spain without making the Mediterranean Corridor. And we are right, I think we are right in that, and we could have a very broad agreement throughout this Parliament to go and negotiate legitimately with the Spanish Government. But will you negotiate a better funding system, Mr Puigdemont? Will you represent the Catalans to the Government of Spain? Will you ask Mr Montoro to open negotiations to improve certain infrastructures, certain industrial services? And you will say: "It is impossible, we have already tried. No, no, we're not going to negotiate a better funding system, we're going to negotiate independence. Sure, that's easy. I mean, you say it's impossible to negotiate a better financing system, but you tell the Catalans that they're going to negotiate independence. But who do you want to deceive? Moreover, if we were to do politics here, if laws and democracy were to be respected here, we would have a majority agreement here, because there is now a parliamentary group in the Congress of Deputies, with forty Members, who are defending a reform of the system of financing the autonomous communities. Are you going to use that political change throughout Spain for the benefit of Catalans? Are you going to defend the Catalans, to legitimately defend improvements for our citizens? I don't think so. Therefore, if there is a government that has renounced negotiation, if there is a government that has renounced real politics and not fiction, it is more necessary, if it is possible, to have a responsible position. And we will, from here and from the Congress of Deputies. Because I'm already telling you that when Mr. Albert Rivera met with Mariano Rajoy one of the things he said was that we have to reform once and for all the funding system of the autonomous communities. That's much more than you think I've said you're willing to do on behalf of the Catalans. In addition, we are very proud to be a party born in Catalonia but that we are aware that not always what is good for Catalonia has to be bad for the whole of Spain. And the best proof of all this is the European Union. I know that your partners are not very interested in this reference, because they are against it, but I believe that the vast majority of Catalans, who are proud to be citizens of the European Union, know that there can be a project that is good for different countries, and that what is good for France does not have to be bad for Spain. And that same reading, that same political intention is what makes us see that in Spain what is good for Catalonia doesn't have to be bad for other autonomous communities. But, of course, that's why we have to do politics, and that's why we have to have a strong government that respects the laws and that knows how to negotiate. And it really seems to me that the strategy that you are following is the worst of all; it puts the Catalans in line with the demands that we can make to the Government of Spain. It's the worst strategy you've ever been able to follow. And we're going to have to undo it, we're going to have to work a lot from the opposition, we're going to have to work a lot from the Congress of Deputies so that also the legitimate interests of Catalans, within a common project and within institutional loyalty, can be carried out. And I believe that a government, above all, a government that forces citizens to comply with the laws..., a government that stifles its citizens with taxes, a government that bothers businesses and self-government with bureaucracy must be the first to comply with democratic laws and judicial decisions. Therefore, a government that, as you say, is willing to jump over the laws, cannot be a representative government of Catalans who comply with the laws; sometimes unjust laws, bureaucratic laws, laws that affect them on a day-to-day basis. And, therefore, if the Government that is to be formed, it seems, is not respectful of the laws, we will already be in the opposition to defend those Catalans who want their rulers, their politicians also to be the first to comply with the laws. And we will also tell you that we will not allow you to force officials to act against the law, because if you want to carry out that development of that suspended resolution you will necessarily involve, and you know, officials. We will not allow your political drifts to affect the lives of the thousands of officials in Catalonia. Therefore, if you do not protect them, we will already protect you from the opposition. I believe that the further a government is willing to come to jump democracy, jump law, jump justice, the more responsible the opposition must be. And we are going to be firm – firm –, and I want all Catalans to know it, we are going to be firmly defending the democracy and freedoms that have been hard for us for so long in Catalonia. And we are going to defend the self-government of Catalonia, the legislative capacity of this House, of this Parliament that you are putting in jeopardy. And I would also like to say one thing to you: this « not to your investiture, Mr Puigdemont, is not a simple vote of political discrepancy, it is not a simple vote because we do not agree with your political project, as it could happen on many other occasions, it is not a « no by political discrepancy, it is a « no because we cannot agree, in democracy, with those who want to jump with the laws, democracy and justice. We cannot support a government that we know will lead us to a place where Catalans will live worse, if possible, than they live now. I believe that this must be made clear that it is not a discrepancy to reach an agreement; what we have had in Catalonia in recent months is not a normal and logical difficulty in having parliamentary support. That's going to happen to a lot of municipalities, it's going to happen to a lot of autonomous governments and it can happen – in fact it's happening – to the Government of Spain. But this is not a normal difficulty, because you, if you wanted to reach a president, if you wanted to reach an agreement, it was not to govern, it was not to solve problems, it was not to implement a normal government program: it is to skip democracy and not to respect the social majority of Catalans who know that they do not follow them, that they do not have their support. I therefore believe that this must be made clear; I have said this many times in recent weeks and even months. We talked a lot about who was going to be the head of the government, we talked a lot about the future president of the Generalitat, but we weren't talking about the important thing, and it's that whoever the president of the Generalitat is, he won't be able to look into the eyes of all Catalans if democracy is skipped and justice is skipped. We are going to defend what so much work has cost us citizens and Catalans, which is to have democracy, to have self-government and to have a statute of autonomy and to have this Parliament functioning with these competences. You said in your speech that you will not shake your legs; I tell you that neither will we. You said in your intervention that you're going to let go of the skin; I tell you that we are too. But the difference between you and us is that we are going to respect democracy, we are going to respect democratic laws, we are going to respect judicial resolutions and, above all, we are going to respect all Catalans, including those who do not think like us. I believe, Mr Puigdemont, that it does not change much from the last investiture debate we had with Mr Mas, I believe that the issues that prevented Mr Mas from being a president for all Catalans, unfortunately, you also have them – and, if not, he would not have been chosen by Mr Mas – but what I am telling you is that before a government that jumps the laws, before a government that disregards judicial resolutions, before a government that knows that it does not have the majority support of the social majority of Catalans, it will have a loyal, dialogueal, democratic opposition that holds hands with everyone and is firm in defending the interests of Catalans. Whatever you don't do, we're gonna do it. Thank you so much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.8.0	The parable is given by Mr Miquel Iceta, President of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.9.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Generality in office, members of the Government in office, Mr candidate, good day. I want my first words to be an exhibition of solidarity and compromise with the people of the Jew, in defense of the river, which is actually life, which is past, present and future, not only from the Lands of the Jew but from all of Catalonia, solidarity and compromise against the Pla de conca de l'Ebre approved diverging for the government in function of the People's Party. The first consideration I wanted to convey to you is that we would harm the country if we took this debate as a bureaucratic way of going through it quickly and quickly. We could reproduce the arguments of the first investment debate and take note of the agreement announced yesterday for a tweet from the President of the Catalan National Assembly and explained later for President Mas. But it's not like that, it doesn't have to be like that. The decision to invest or not the candidate who presents himself as one hundred and thirty president of the Government of Catalonia must take this chamber after a debate in which the political intentions of the candidate, his solemn commitments, and in which the different groups of the chamber fix our positions to respect. I hope they don't tell me that this is technical subtleties. In Catalonia we have – or perhaps we have – the good habit of doing things right; not only with formal respect for standards but with a certain ambition of excellence. Certainly, things have been as they have been, and sometimes they can be adjusted to the reality of what is possible, which is not always the right thing to do. But I would have liked it better if you had consulted the group in the chamber that the Speaker of the Parliament had done as she did, that is to say, how they had done before the first investiture debate; that the Board of Spokespersons had not been held just before the start of the plenary – it could have been done this morning – and, put to it, that we did not have to wait at the last minute, at the last second, as you say, to keep this debate. In any case, not one of these considerations will be legitimate or important to the debate we are holding. We are celebrating this debate in application of the Rules of the Chamber, remember, because some elections to the Parliament of Catalonia were held on 27 September, some elections for the Statute of Catalonia and the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime, both of which were held in the Spanish Constitution. I remember that, precisely, because nobody forgets that the decisions of this Parliament are legitimate and democratic if they take over the existing law. If not, they're not. Fortunately, it is about a legality that establishes mechanisms for the modification of any rule, whatever its importance, incorporate it, of course, the very modification of the Constitution and the State that we all employ and that have been referred to for citizenship in a comprehensive manner. Before going in to evaluate the candidate's intervention and asking him for some clarifications about the intentions he set out before the chamber, I would like to comment on the time elapsed from 27 September until yesterday. There have been three-and-a-half months to fill in some difficulties that we can't help but clean up. The first has to do with the different readings we make of all the electoral results. They know from the first moment that it's ours. From our point of view, the election result enables us to form a government with the gathering of the majority independentist from the polls, but it does not enable this government to change to take a unilateral or illegal path towards independence. From our point of view, you did not win the plebiscite about independence in the same terms as you planted it. To illustrate this idea, and as a quote from authority, and to make it clear that it is not just an opinion on the one hand, I quote a phrase from today's article in La Vanguardia, by Francesc-Marc Álvaro ; certainly, author of the book Why did we win? I mean, there's no doubt that he thought he was past 27 September. This fragment says the following, literally, and I quote: "Beyond this new direction, the independent parties and the entities that accompany them will be wrong if they do not assume in an adult manner that the process needs more muscle and less speed: it has to change the rhythm and it has to expand the social partisan base of the secession, because a 48_per_cent is a very important but insufficient xifra to skip the wall. Finish the date. I'll come back to that question a little bit further ahead. Forty-four hours ago it was said that the presidency of the Generalitat had not subsided and that the process could not continue on the basis of exclusions. Our impression is that, unfortunately, it has happened, and that exclusions have occurred, so there can be no doubt about it: those of the President-in-Office, of Artur Mas, and it seems that those of some Members of the CUP. Certainly, it's not quite a fish bottom. I remember very well having accompanied my bird to the bottom of the fish at the port of Palamós and there I did not hear the king. On the other hand, in this case, I believe that everything has been so transparent and so clear that we have all understood it. It's been a long time. And I say it with respect, with affection, but we've seen it that way, at least. I want to make it clear that we are absolutely not discussing the majority of seventy-two Members who today, as it turns out, will invest the candidate, nor will the ability of Juntes for the Yes and the UPC to agree on the terms they freely establish. Now, moving with deputies from one group to another and promoting resignations from deputies and deputies who have been elected for citizenship seems democratically objectionable to us; if they want to, I read. And we were especially alarmed by the President's statement, but when he said that the negotiations with the UPC had provided Juntes for the Yes to what the ballots had denied them, he said: "We corrected that the ballots had not decided. It is very disturbing; or perhaps not, perhaps simply the President But said: "Through an agreement we have had an absolute majority support, or similar, that the ballot boxes, indeed, had distributed between two groups. I can be one of... I always bow to benevolent interpretations. You already know me... [[Rialles.]] But it seemed disturbing to us. What comes out of the ballot boxes comes out of the ballot boxes, and can't be altered, unless we return to the ballot boxes, from our point of view. But you also have to see with the reading of the results what I have already referred to and what I will do again. In any case, as it turns out, those who had told the President, but "President, put the ballot boxes down, now it seems that they have told him, "President, before we put the ballot boxes back on the table. It's a way. And finally what he said, it seems, by his decision, is to move him and, according to him, to move some Members of the CUP as well. I repeat, I do not deny any legitimacy to your agreement, absolutely. Besides, I've said it on many occasions, the repetition of some comedians is the last resort. And I would say, I would have put it in evidence, a fraction of the policy that would seem to say to the citizen: « Return to voting, which has not just pleased us as you wanted to do. Certainly, in the case before us, the blockade that had occurred was the sole responsibility of two political forces that did not want to explore other scenes – other agreed scenes – driven by a reading that, I repeat, we wrongly judge, of the election results. As you, independentists, it is only possible to agree between you and the CUP did not accept the presidency of Artur Mas, he had to give in, seeking to change some guarantee of stability and some resignation, according to the CUP. We'll see how this works. We don't, Fi, by their actions you'll know them, we'll say. We'll wait to see him. In any case, it seems clear that with this investment it is a gift or an intention to give continuity to the process and a time to refound Convergence, which, if we did not hear badly, will be one of the President's dedications in operation. It's all if we don't get it wrong. But the negotiations of these three months and months also bring me to share with all of you a concern: all this time, Together for the Yes and the CUP have not engaged with other groups to explore parliamentary agreements; at least I know, or, in any case, have not done so with ours. There's a right, I'd just miss it, but what we'd have to think about is if this is the best thing for the country. And here's where we probably disagree. Are we ahead of an independent majority who will invest an independent president to form an independent government in the service of the independent cause without the representation and defense of the conjunction of the Catalan citizenry? I'll put it with the question. At the end of a few positions – I don't mean that they are still from the candidate, that in this sense they haven't been – it seems to me that the old demons of the Catalan policy of separating Catalans between good and bad: good are those who are in favor of the process directed for Junts for the Yes and the UPC, and we would be all bad. It's a little sad, because the list of traitors put me third: first traitor, say, the CUP – well, not now –; second, Catalonia Yes it is Pot; third, the PSC. Well, I'm asking for an ex-lawyer. [[Rialles.]] But I hope that this spirit of division between good and bad, between good and evil, which inspires the agreement that brought them here today with a candidate for the presidency of the Generality, is not true. And I hope, even more, that this is not the tarann of the presidency that will be held in Carles Puigdemont if I obtained the confidence of the chamber. Your obsession with shielding the majority of the accord to somehow limit the role of the CUP, which will not be able to vote on certain ways, announces a parliamentary race or not? You know I always put myself in the position. Maybe not. But, in view of the other corner of the chamber, it seems that you have decided not to answer any questions or proposals from groups representing 52 percent of Catalans. Looks like it. If I'm wrong, I'll be the happiest man in the world, because, as you know, if I've come to something political it's a pact. And, therefore, if I had an opportunity to settle things, then I would be very happy. But, more seriously, respect for pluralism obliges us to practice the dialogue with opposition, not to block its initiatives by system, to discuss its proposals constructively. They will agree with me, I hope, that respect for minorities is not limited to the right to complain and disagree, and less if they represent the majority of Catalans, as is the case and has been remembered for Mrs. Arrimadas a while ago. Therefore, Mr. candidate, and if I may, from a confidence that we do not yet have but hope that we will acquire, I demand that you also listen and work for the 52_percent of Catalans who did not vote for either the Yes or the CUP, the 52_percent of Catalans and Catalans who do not share their plans or their full route. I also need to feel some compromise from the candidate on the need for de-governmentalization of public communication media, which are not the only ones of the processions, but belong to all Catalans and Catalans. I make a comment... but with a minor tone, because I don't see that there's a bad intention, but when the candidate got married and described his visit to the country, he was talking about the good people who had mobilized. I will not be the one who doubts the character of good people of the mobilized, but I hope that he will not be the one who doubts the character of good people of those we have seen as spectators to the mobilizations and sometimes, so we have seen ourselves very marred by a process that has given many times and that, indeed, when someone evoked the figure of Saint Job, so I too have understood it perfectly, because, from the outside, the process has sometimes been done very well. Miri, Mr. candidate, the presidency of the Generality is an institution of the country, an institution serving all its people. And it's very important to know what is the opinion on the conception of the presidency of the Generality that the candidate who today supports this investment debate. And this allows me to already enter into the concrete content of the agreement, or, if they want it in any other way, to the commitments that today the candidate for the presidency of the Generality solemnly takes before the Parliament. And let me ask you a few very specific questions, Mr. candidate. The first: does you consider the declaration approved by Parliament valid on 9 November and which was annulled by the Constitutional Court for unanimity? Do you intend to develop it, placing the Catalan institutions outside the law? Do you think there's a right? I want to remind you of the respect of two of the main Catalan diaries – the two main Catalan diaries. The editorial of La Vanguardia spoke of – I quote literally – « unilateral declaration of hidden independence, and denounced that the text – I quote literally – « does not just mess with the current Constitution but is situated on the margin of the European order – ends the quote –, and qualified the day in which it was approved that statement of – I quote literally – « small, sad and unmanaged simulation of October 6, 1934 – the quote ended. In coherence with this analysis, the first daily in Catalonia called for an urgent correction. The other great newspaper of the country, El Periódico de Catalunya, also added its concern in its editorial of the following day, where it was stated that – I quote literally – "the Parliament is on the margin of any rule of the democratic game and cannot find the understanding of anyone in the joint venture of Espanya, the European Union, nor the rest of the international community – tanco comets, ends the quote. I've made these two quotes because I see that they are not opinions, we would say, partisans but that they are from two important newspapers of our country; certainly, made here, not written in Madrid, right? , something that comes out of Catalan society. And, from this concern, I insist, Mr. candidate, do you consider that the disbanded statement is still in force? Do you intend to deploy it with government decisions? And let me ask you, Mr. candidate, following this thread, whether your investiture is based on the anonymity ‘agreement to independence'– that we had to read, things to follow the process–, that Juntes per el Si subtmetred to the consideration of the CUP. Is this his government plan? I look forward to your answer, even though it is true that in your intervention today, you have said, it seemed to me, to Junts' electoral program for the Yes and to the commitments that he intended to acquire before the chamber the very honorable Artur Mas, but I would like to ask this question expressly. Is it to say, the plan of the government that you claim to constitute is based on the agreement to the independence that you set up at the CUP, in order to satisfy the support of the CUP to the investiture of Artur Mas? The basis of this agreement is precisely the declaration of 9 November. And I already made them, the moment that that statement was adopted, if... – and I asked them – if they have thought about the costs and consequences of placing Catalan institutions outside the law. I say, and I repeat, because some of these costs and consequences do not only charge on you, but they can charge on the city council. And I want to make it clear to you that in our opinion you do not have the right to place institutions outside the law. I want to tell them that, more than illegal, they do not have a democratic mandate to give a step of this transcendence, and that if their concrete action is based on the logical consequences of being outside the law and the state of law, they would not be able to find in our group neither understanding nor solidarity. Some more concrete questions, Mr. candidate, because I didn't seem to listen to him, in his intervention. Are we before a legislature that will only last months or similar? Will you submit to a question of trust in the course of the second half of 2016, d'enguany? Will your government follow the principles, the terms and the terms of the process are contained in the name of the agreement and independence? Will it create, in the case of the Government of the Generality, the Commission of Government of Economy and Occupation, the Commission of Government of Foreign Affairs, Institutional and Transparency and the Commission of Government for the State of the Benestar? Is there going to be one or several vice presidents in your government? Is there going to be a counselor or a counselor in charge? I ask you these questions and ask you these particulars in so far as some of them were contained in the proposal for an agreement on independence, and because you can account for the chamber if these are elements that have already been granted in the pre-investigation negotiations, because, I repeat, only the commitments made before the chamber have the strength to be demanded of the candidate if he obtained the investiture. On the other hand, I would like to take advantage of the fact that it was in agreement with independence, even if, as you yourself say, we consider them insufficient before a situation of social emergence, which you have also reiterated, and what I take advantage of is to regret that these elements, these measures, these laws, these actions have not been put on the market before and that they will understand that we will be very attentive to your compliment, in the content and terms that you yourself have agreed to. Because, of course, if they agreed because they thought it was possible, we would not understand that, before a social emergence with which we all share that exists, now they are not taking these measures. I take this opportunity to say... that we already know that it is complicated, with interventions, let's say, of a reasonable duration, that there is no such thing as, in his initial intervention, mention the young man of our country, the women of our country, the male violence. It is true that Mrs. Arrimadas also has, therefore, a lack of reference to the fight against corruption, if you well consider that her commitment to transparency already includes these questions; but, finally, that is only you can say, and therefore, to your answer we will address. In any case, Mr. candidate, and as if we do not appreciate any difference between today's approach and that of Junts' previous candidate for the Yes – and this does not make it a question of people, but of political foundations – we give you the same answer that we were going to give to Junts' previous candidate for the Yes, our three negatives: not independence, not lawlessness, not his investment. We believe that Catalonia needs to be established, well-governed and able to negotiate, and its proposal, from our point of view, does not guarantee it. It is true that perhaps time will deny this prognostic denial, so good, because in the head, in the will of all of us the first one to be there is the country and its people, and, therefore, so good that we are wrong! In any case, I will repeat for the chamber, once again, which are the priorities that the Socialist Group believes should inform the government action, the themes on which they can count on our loyal collaboration if they abandon the full, unilateral and illegal routing route that we know. The first priority – and you talked about it in your speech, in terms that we can, to a great extent, share – is economic reactivation and job creation. A process that requires consultation with trade unions and business organisations; a process that requires political stability, coherent and cohesive governments; and, above all, a process that cannot put our continuity in the European Union and the Eurosystem at risk for a_second. To take advantage of the enormous potential of the Catalan economy, of entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, workers and workers, of its entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, of its autonomes and autonomes, of its researchers and researchers, of its innovative people, of its creators and cultural creators and its associated industries. It is necessary to reform in truth the Occupational Service of Catalonia, from our point of view still to go further, giving it more resources and more professionals to make it even more effective in its function of accompanying the people who have lost their jobs, many of whom require a deep professional recycling and an effort of personal motivation; measures of shock against youth, youth exile and the long-term maturity of the majors of forty-five years, and special attention to measures for the sustainability and energy transition. The second priority is the defense of the welfare state, public policies, public health and education services, with plans of shock against the lists of hope with recovery of the purchasing power of the professionals, its valorization, avoiding any diversion of resources towards the private sector with a civil rescue plan towards the people and the most vulnerable families, with a compromise of poor zero held by the infants as the first of its priorities, as, in some ways, the plan of shock to which I referred earlier. Collaborating, as you said, with the assemblies, so that they can effectively develop their irreplaceable task, and that is why the Generality should pay for their contracts and pending debts. The third priority, the fight against corruption and tax fraud: the regeneration of our democracy, civic empowerment, associative vitality, transparency and compromise of a function different from the parties, of an ethic financing of the parties and their foundations, of an electoral system that is more proportional and that brings the elected to the citizenry. You have spoken of the electoral law, which is an assumption that all of us have pending, and therefore count on the willingness of our group to participate very actively in the search for a Catalan electoral law. And fourth priority: to solve the problem of the connection between Catalonia and the rest of Spain through the dialogue, the negotiation and the pact. I thought that this... – well, I'm naive – I thought that this expression would only be for me, it would be forever, but after following with great attention the campaign deployed for Francesc Homs to the general elections, therefore, renouncing to collect copyright, but the path of the dialog, the negotiation and the pact requires willingness, willingness and, probably, the discharge of words, papers and facts some things produced from the Catalan institutions. It is true that, from our point of view, this dialect should culminate in a federal constitutional reform that is under reference; but it is true that there are other things, that perhaps some of them are, at last, priorities from the point of view of its urgency: the revision of the financing model or the wide list of twenty-three pending themes that President But left on President Rajoy's table and that President Rajoy did not even answer so much. Looks like the president once told us that we had one and a half, if I don't recall badly. So, finally, it means that there are many and many left to explore, and, indeed, this basically deposes of the attitude, the disposition of the President of the Generality. It is very different to negotiate independence, possibility, or to negotiate agreements more, we would say, feasible. In any case, this is a responsibility that corresponds to you. Certainly, and as always, I take the opportunity to remind you that you are the ordinary representative of the State in Catalonia, if you are invested president of the Generality, which also involves certain obligations of respect for legality, the state of law and the institutions of the State that you do not forget. We don't think we can leave everything hanging on that big day that we'll be entering the big door to the happy Arcadia that you promised us long enough. We need to work from now on, aware that collaboration between institutions makes us move forward and that it makes us move forward more quickly than from the logic of confrontation, and even more so if someone goes to ignore legality, which would deprive us of the legitimacy necessary to demand and negotiate in defense of our interests. I think – so good that I'm wrong! – that the path we draw is a totally different path from what you propose to us, which is perfectly legitimate and perfectly understandable in democracy. But, I repeat, and I will no longer do so because I ended up, that the majority who got them qualified to rule, but not to pursue express independence and less still if they want to do so by the way of ignoring legality. In this way they will not find us, better said, we will oppose it in a firm way in defense of the interest of Catalonia and of all its people. Allow me, in any case, Mr. candidate, to wish you, if I obtained the investiture, to be sure in your pocket. I'm not the one who wants to get out; well, sometimes you do it because it's like a formula, but if we leave it all to fate, as we go, maybe we put a little bit of an end to it. And to tell you – and here I'll understand that someone says I'm going to rub it all over the house – that they'll only find the enclosure if it works for all Catalans and Catalans and not just for those who legitimately share their ideal of independence. Mr. candidate, you'll be warmed up by things that I'm going to say right now, that I don't want to say that I don't have, I say, warmed up, if he's equipped in this land much better for you and for all of you. It will warm them seny, earnest, calm, prudence and humility. That's what's right in Catalonia, as well as the tenacity and firmness that his friends already give it for free. Those who want to serve the country always – always, always – tend to tend to their side. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.10.0	The word has the illustrious Lord Lluís Rabell, president of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.11.0	Madam President... very honorable President-in-Office, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Okay. We arrive at a solemn investiture session that is held in extremes, in time of discount, we could say, and we have the investiture of who will be the one hundred and thirty president of the Government of Catalonia. And this investiture will not, as many had thought, be that of Mr. Mas, who yesterday announced to us that he was taking a step towards the side, without even going far enough, and that it will be the investiture of Mr. Carles Puigdemont, from whom we know his trajectory as head of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia; singularly to the head of the Giróni consistor and which we have always known claiming the political mastery of Jordi Pujol. I am saying this because certain ideological recognitions may explain curious silences in this investment speech. This investiture will count – and I don't think I'll surprise anyone to announce it – with the vote against our formation; a formation that is clearly located after this intervention, as an opposition of lefts to the government that Mr Puigdemont announces, an opposition that is institutionally responsible, but also responsible, and in the first term, before the city of Catalonia. And this is not a rhetorical phrase, that is to say, it has cost months to reach this age-old outcome of the investiture: months of parliamentary paralysis, months in which the social emergency situation that Catalonia sees – a country that the crisis and austerity policies have made poorer, more unjust and profoundly unequal – had to wait; months in which it has not even been possible to hold an extraordinary ple in due time to discuss the most urgent measures that this situation requires and in which this chamber has not been able to ask for or tax the government in office. And allow me, in response to what Mr. Puigdemont said: Brilliant government, heretage of brilliant governments. Well, under the brilliant governments that have led us to this situation, the poverty risk rate is 20_per_cent and, for what it does to the poor child, 28_per_cent; the investment in education has lost 1,200_million since the year 2010, and now we have 13_million in fooder scholarships when we had 55_million in 2010. Therefore, the shiner allowed me to put it in doubt, allowed it to put it in doubt. And to say that there is one thing that has been mentioned in other interventions: the famous platoon of rock, the platoon of rock that the government used, posed the damont of the table as an element of negotiation for the investiture. Allow me to call your attention to this extreme. If a functioning government is in a position to take steps and intervene to appease the situation of Catalonia's citizens, it has the obligation to do so without negotiating with anyone; it is not a currency to change a course of action to respond to social emergencies. Therefore, brilliant and salutations to the government in function, so do not fail, if you will allow us. It may also be that, among the oblivious meanings of Mr Puigdemont's intervention, we have found ourselves lacking..., some things have been done in previous interventions, but one very significant one has been, therefore, the reference to gender-based violence, the situation of women and the situation of community-based violence that still sees their minor or mistreated rights, and I think of gay, lesbian, transsexual collections, that these days make them feel a little more than they see before the situation they see. I hope – Mr Puigdemont has not told us this and it is a question that I address to you when I speak after this – that the government that has in mind, complementing the law of equality voted for this Parliament, will be a joint government. I don't know if they've thought about it, I hope so. It would also be mandatory from the aesthetic point of view, from the political point of view, but also from the point of view of respecting the legality of this chamber. There has been a long period of negotiations in which it is hoped that it is trying to resolve what, how and when of a path marked for the statement of 9 November. Today we can see that the only thing that was really at stake in these talks was who was to preside over the Generality and form its government. We spend a lot of time talking about the process, justifying it in the name of the process, and we don't know what this process is all about. Because, it is true, and we are part of it, there are deep and indefatigable democratic aspirations of Catalan society, a very clear will to smooth out new strands of national freedom, self-government, expressed in multitudes of mobilizations. But, at the same time, in this period of time, we have also witnessed a partisan action on the part of Democratic Convergence, riding hastily some installations that historically had not been theirs, with the pretension, let us clearly say, of perpetuating themselves in power. And it makes us the effect that this really made this investment, to allow Democratic Convergence to be remade. The announcement of 20 December, from the general elections, was quite clear: a much more complex Catalonia has begun to emerge, different from what appears in the official speeches, a Catalonia more concerned about social problems, much more desirous of finding a majority for the right to decide, more open to seek connections with the working and simple people of the Spanish State. We are aware, and we fully understand, that, by Convergence, keeping in hand the government's powers is decided to reconstitute a free-falling party, weary of the impacts of its retail policies and open for corruption. The accusation of the Pujol family – I quote the expression of the court of the National Court that instructs the case – as a criminal organization, reminds us these days. And I would like to say that the results of 20 December have had a side effect. If you see Mr. But you're not a candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat there's much to see about the fact that about 1_million Catalans and Catalans, on September 20th, voting for candidatures of the change, candidatures apostatizing for another democratic and social way, much different from what the current Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia represents. We saw it in the previous and failed investment session: on 27 September, you will remember, Catalonia was asked to vote yes or no, and the country, therefore, voted Catalan, but yes no. And from here on, they've all been inappropriate. We have – it has been remembered many times – a parliamentary majority that lacks courage to address its electorate and tell it the truth, the truth that is very hard: the plebiscite did not win; the plebiscite that promised us just the ones who organized it, the ones who called these elections. You were actually given a mandate to form a government, but not the mandate to end a unilateral secession. These months of inconclusive conversations have been revealing. There was talk of a plan of shoc, earlier on, which contained measures already compromised and never implemented for the Government of Convergence; the announcement of an extraordinary social expenditure forecast of 270_million euros, which represents exactly 0.5_percent of the Generality's assumption; measures that would depend on new and uncertain assumptions that would have to come, and others that would depend on the models that would have to be sorted, presumably, a future Catalonia independent, such as, for example, for what it does beyond water management. We do not know whether President Puigdemont, the future president of the Generality, will assume the fiasco, for example, of the privatization of Aigues Ter Llobregat, which has become a convergent red line during the conversations with the CUP, like concerts with religious elite schools, which secrete by sex, or the heavy incursions of private interests into public health through consortia such as Lleida, the exploitation of data or the promotion of health tourism. We don't know whether, as Mr. But told us in the other investment session, failed, guaranteed citizenship income is a nice thing but we can't promise very much not to be disappointed, it's to say if there are serious commitments, and what is the level of dedication and effort that counts promoting the government that proposes to us Mr. Puigdemont. At the capdavall, the investiture of Mr Puigdemont seems more likely to occur at a change of heart, at a change in smoke; neither alone – nor so alone – we have felt the compromise of withdrawal on the part of the Generality as a particular accusation against social activists accused in criminal cases, something we have demanded from Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, that the CUP also demanded in its time, in its moment, with insistence; not even this symbolic gesture has been obtained, not so alone. We have the feeling, therefore, that it is a matter of perpetuating a whole system of governance and interests which have proved to be sufficiently contrary to the interests and needs of the social majority of this country. Perhaps it would be more accurate to say that the investiture is made to change an illusion, the illusion of continuing a process that has proved impractical in the terms of unilateral action raised. We have reason to doubt that the government is coming out of this investiture and is not at the height of the social emergence that we are living if it follows this full road. What credibility has the announcement of measures that have been in place for years and that have not been completed? What credibility is it, for example, that it will now be an electoral law for some people who have been opposed to the most representative and proportional electoral law that this country needs, because it was simply interested in obtaining a parliamentary result that would allow it to do its own politics and its tripijocs? What guarantees do we have? What credibility do we have of those who have not done, have not turned and have opposed certain measures and changes now – now –, so that you don't know which magic changes, will they do so? They ask us for confidence when they have betrayed him and when they have betrayed his word many times. Because it has already become clear – we have it clear – that there will be no way of disconnection – this disconnection that was mentioned in that famous resolution of 9 November. First, because there was no democratic legitimacy to do so. It has already been said: there are not enough people, as a percentage of citizens who support and force this claim. And that's not the case, it also remembered here, with triplets of parliamentary arithmetic. This phrase of correcting in a negotiation that the polls didn't give us was earlier thought. All of us have come to grips with this phrase in the face of real luck and glory, which does not say much about conception and respect for political democracy, which begins with respect for what the ballot boxes have said; this is an elementary principle of political democracy that we should not forget and that parliamentary tripijocs and combinations cannot mislead or betray. There is no majority social force, no external support, no resources suitable for this disconnection in the long run. Before... is it that I would ask Mr Puigdemont: are you really serious that in a voluntary and unilateral way you can create an agency of social security and mount a social security independent of relations with the Spanish State? If you believe this is a somiathruth that cannot be in front of the Generality. And if he doesn't believe it, he won't tell us. Frankly, no one can imagine... a duana? Do you really think that we're gonna set up a couple of duanes unilaterally and voluntarily? But... There are two ways to achieve independence: either by force or negotiation. As if the force did not raise it, if you were responsible, you would have to look for majorities that would allow them to negotiate with the Spanish State a democratic exit and enforce their proposals. But unilateral rupture is not only illegal; it is obvious that we have things that..., we are not fetishists of legality; but it is neither legitimate from the democratic point of view nor feasible from the point of view of the social force that it has at the back. It's a trick, and we give it here a little more, a brawl that no one believes – that no one believes. [[Some applause.]] When the November 9 resolution was voted here, the morning, the advisors who are here were begging the Spanish State for an autonomous liquidity fund. Whose disconnect are you talking about? – whose disconnection are you talking about? I don't believe anyone! You guys, the first ones. Simply, it is a matter of gaining time, piloting ahead and allowing for a few months there to be the possibility of referring a game to a free fall. That's the point of the question. On the other hand – on the other hand – the reactivation of this speech is very good for Mr. Rajoy, who will 'use it as a surprise now to look to glue the PSOE into a mine of great coalition to save the unity of Spain. We're feeling it now. The institutional train scenario is the most negated for the social and democratic rights of Catalonia, but also for the popular classes of all Spain, and it is a scene of blockade and decay, a scene in which we will not collaborate; on the contrary, we think that we need to open an alternative way. I'd make a change of course. It is time to agree that we should take another path, a path based on a number of policies resulting in the rescue of cities, the reactivation of the economy with social, equal and environmental criteria, and a gender; the promotion of public services and the common good; a path that re-makes the social majority for the right to decide, with the objective of an agreed and recognizable reference, a path that we should never have abandoned and that we should actually allow ourselves to realize the democratic aspirations of Catalan society. We live, as our friend Xavier Domènech says, constituent times; the social contract over which the inherited political architecture of the Transition that managed bipartisanism was maintained, a rule of which, it is worth remembering at these times, Convergence and Union and Pujolism formed a part, they were a constituent element. The 15-M, the general waves, the tides in defense of public health, the social movements for the right to housing, all a displacement of the technical plates of the Spanish society, have begun to find their political expression in the assemblies of the change of the past month, in the emerging forces of the change to Spain, as Podemos and the different tides, which have represented and represent a profound change of perspective and possibilities not only for the Spanish society, but also for the Catalan society in a very singular way. And the country needs, as I said, a change of course. What paper will you be willing to play Mr. Puigdemont's government? Do you really want to include, I insist on the question, your action in the perspective of the resolution of 9 November that no one believes, starting with those who voted for it? We need a government that can promote a broad social base for change, a government that has as its priority the rescue of the city and the defence of public services, which is where the nation really cohesions and which is for us the first structures of the state, which you have been carrying with your policies of privatization; which prioritizes the existing financial resources and work, with the support of the citizenry, to example them; which renegotiates the debt of the Generality, contrasting with other communities that support inexhaustible deficiencies; which fights for the realization of investments and hollow infrastructures; which fights firmly and seriously against corruption and fraud, a significant thing, I repeat, obsolutely in this speech. We need a government, in a word, that sarges the country, that attracts a large majority of diverse people, diverse in terms of national sentiments, cultural identities or political preferences for what it does to relations between Catalonia and Spain, but that it is united by the democratic desire to give the word to the citizenry. From this point of view, actually, there's through the ballot box, and it looks like it's one by one, a malaise encomanadisse, huh? Some have ballots here in Catalonia, others in the Spanish State have ballots in the referendums, huh? It's seen as a current illness, a political grip of the time we live. A few weeks ago, precisely, Mr. But, here, in this Faristol, he was ironic about the complicitys that we would be able to get in Spain those that we talked about from a reference. So, look, 20th of December has brought a few answers. Referendum supporters won the elections in Catalonia, huh? , way ahead of the formation you represent, way ahead. And they revealed 7 million left from the Spanish State. To such a point that today about a hundred deputies and deputies of the Congress of Deputies defend the right to decide, which means that there is a profound movement in the Spanish society and the possibility to weave complicitys that remove the ground and that open up new perspectives to our aspirations. And we are talking about arithmetic majorities; look, we are talking more quickly about the profound political instability that arises from these elections, which these elections reveal. The PP has lost the absolute majority, Ciutadans has not managed to recompose the space that lost the PP, and the PSOE seems to steal the implosion while he does not want to recognize Spain's plurinational reality and does not go back the path of the right to decide on its peoples. Meanwhile, while this is happening, Brussels hopes that it will form a new government in Madrid, and in Catalonia too, to present a new departure of demands in the matter of adjustments and details, and probably also to commit us to join in the belical efforts of the European powers in the East. There shouldn't be enough to make a solid and stable government tremble, and at the moment we don't have it; neither in Madrid nor here. We should not, responsibly, facilitate from this Parliament, we should not, with our actions and words, make it possible to form a government in Madrid hostile to Catalonia. We'd have to work just to open another way. [[Greetings.]] Because it is time to change and it is time to open, time for institutional exhaustion when it will be decided to open feasible paths to the will of change of the city. Today we repeat – and with this end – the independence of the left, we think, must hear that we will not get out of it under the hegemony of a neoliberal right that today seems to want to be taken back to the head of the Generality, which represents much more the past than not the future of this country. From this point of view, we respect, as it cannot be in any other way, the agreement between the formations that want to promote this investiture. But we respect and share with many sectors of the independent left the longings for social justice, national freedom, equity and progress. And let's wait... – the proof of the facts will be completed – whether this agreement will be an obstacle or not because the progressive forces of this chamber arrive to work folds, as we have known to work in so many social struggles on the street. This will be proof of the facts for you and for us. We'll see – we'll see. As the other one would say, we grant the benefit of the duet to everyone, but let's do a little bit too to put the saying in the loop, huh? And the reality is that he's finally going to say if we're supposed to be okay, if we're supposed to be bad and if we're able to be on top of our responsibilities. As we also think, and we say it with all frankness, that it is also time for Catalan socialism to make a thought, to say the least, and it goes without saying that it cannot continue to hold on to immobilism or tossed for immobilism and turning the stage to a claim that had been its, that is the right to decide of the people of Catalonia. So – and I finish with this sentence – our ‘no to the investiture of Mr Puigdemont is in fact one more extended to the progressive and democratic forces of this country to configure as soon as possible, we don't know when but as soon as possible, a great alliance for change, because we think it is the only answer to the rise of the time that has passed. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.12.0	The parable is given by the illustrious Mr Xavier García Albiol, president of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.13.0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr Puigdemont, candidate for the presidency of the Generality, I have listened with great interest, with great attention, to your intervention, to which I will refer to the length of my speech. But you do allow me to tell you before you start this speech, and I tell you to look at it directly, that neither you nor anyone will start a process of breaking up Catalonia with the rest of Spain. Make it very clear. From here, and with a message that I hope you will allow and make him reflect, I want to tell all Juntes members for the Yes and the CUP, especially, that after a hundred and five days of the elections we are celebrating this investiture debate; an investiture debate where we will choose, where a new president will be elected and, in the next few days, a new government for Catalonia. The first thing I want to point out is the lack of the elements closest to an investment debate as we are celebrating. Here today what we are doing is an express debate, what we are doing is a debate that does not contemplate even the smallest forms of what is to be the debate where a president or a president of the Generality is to be chosen. Therefore, today is surely one of the saddest days for the dignity of Catalonia. During the last three months we have experienced episodes in which most of the Catalans have been ashamed of themselves as seeing the sluggish situations they were bringing us today with this plethora of investiture; situations that, I must say, have been the most shameful of democracy in the next thirty-five years in Catalonia. And from this Ple certainly, from among a couple of hours, Catalonia will have a new president of the Generality, a president of the Generality who went from number 3 to the list for Girona, a candidacy that encapsulated the Lord Romeva, and of this same candidacy that he presented theoretically as the President of the Generality the Major. It's still very normal. And most likely, Mr Puigdemont, you will be president of the Generality with the votes of the CUPs. This week – it's not a year or six months ago, but this week – the same president in office, Mr. Mas, literally said, literally qualified his governing partners, and those who most likely from one city will give him their votes because you're president of the Generality, like a cork that's placed in a skirt cabinet and that's got it rotten. This is not an expression of the García Albiol or of some member of the People's Party of Catalonia; it is an expression made by the current President of the Generalitat, the President in office, of what must be the governing partners that we will have from a time. And you show up at this investiture, Mr. Puigdemont, with great ideas, with great proclamations – the vast majority of them obviously cannot be shared – and he explained to us what he wants to do, but he didn't tell us how he wants to do it. And any observer who arrives here in Catalonia for the first time, after listening to him, would say: "Look, these people, more there, therefore, to share their content or not, want to do things, but it gives the chance that you, the members of Convergence, have been ruling in Catalonia for five years, and the question that many Catalans are asking is: and why haven't they done it before? And why don't these social measures, which you set up, which you assigned, why didn't you finish them before and wait for this moment? You, I must tell you, have presented yourself to this investment debate without any kind of serious and feasible government program proposal. He hasn't made us a single proposal that goes in the line of what it's like to create more jobs in Catalonia, which is what matters to the vast majority of men and women in Catalonia, beyond their ideology. Yes, he has told us about the Catalan Republic and he has told us about the construction of the state structures based on the nullified resolution that was adopted in this very Parliament on the 9th, but he has not told us about how to create employment policies for thousands of Catalans who do not have a job at these times, or have not told us about policies of solidarity, education, security or sanitation. A few years ago the president in office, Mr. Mas, literally said that he would carry Catalonia to an unknown size. And I must say that surely, Mr. But – and I will now refer to it – this has been the only promise that you have fulfilled in these past years. Mr. Mas, you have reached an agreement, you have accepted a government agreement with your CUP partners that means a serious risk from a political, institutional, social and economic point of view for Catalonia. When..., and also, we don't have to go to a few years ago or a few months ago, but three or four days ago radically qualified the members of the UPC; they said they were hyperradical and super-lefts. Do you think this is the travel company that the Government of Catalonia needs in its next years? Is this the travel company that needs one of Spain's main economies, which unfortunately we are no longer competitive because of the institutional political instability that is happening in this country? Honestly, I have to say no. And I want to say to you, Mr. Mas, because I want to refer also to you – to Mr. Puigdemont, surely we will already have more than enough time, and as he says, well, that he was passing by and that they have called him at the last hour... –, yes I want to refer to you, because you are the great culprit of the situation that we are living in Catalonia right now. I have to recognize you and the members of the CUP two virtues: one, that the CUP has humiliated you, Mr. Mas, and the institution of the presidency of the Generalitat, but it is also true that you, in the last few hours, have humiliated the members of the CUP. The problem is that they have humiliated the entire people of Catalonia, and today we are paying for the consequences. You leave, you leave, and you can have security, Mr. Mas – and I tell you with all due respect, institutional respect that you have not had in half of the population of Catalonia – that will pass into history because you have divided Catalans and fractured Catalan society. We cannot imagine anything more undemocratic than publicly recognizing, as you did yesterday, that the results of the ballot boxes have been corrected through negotiations in the offices, behind closed doors and in the dark. The will of the Catalans and the Catalans has been, has been adulterated with a dark pact that aims to impose on Catalonia what the Catalans have not decided, the majority; we have not decided the majority in the ballot box. You leave with a record: your record, Mr. Mas, is to have had the ability during these five years to have caused a division within the Socialist Party, to have broken Convergence and Union, to cause the disappearance of Union and to turn the anti-system of the CUP into the central party and referent in the next legislature of government. Sincerely, Mr. Mas, more evil impossible of consequences..., the consequences of your government action are unpredictable. He leaves, as I told him, Catalonia's future in the hands of radicalism and the anti-system and is not aware of the terrible evil that our economy and our economic stability means. Mr. Mas, all the consequences of the decadence that Catalonia has been experiencing in recent years are summed up in one thing: bad government, bad government that you have presided over and that Catalans are paying for the consequences. Lords of Junts for Yes – and, especially, for Convergence –, Pujolism has proved itself to be no longer able to give ‘lessons...' – lessons, forgiveness–, lessons of ethics, and since then postpujolism cannot give lessons of democracy. What you are doing at these times, starting a process, as Mr Puigdemont pointed out, with a project, with an adventure, which is at the absolute margin of legality, is an anti-democratic act and an act that puts freedoms at risk, because it is not possible to do what you have done with your intervention, Mr Puigdemont. You cannot speak on behalf of the entire people of Catalonia. And you did it on different occasions of your intervention: you do not speak on behalf of the entire people of Catalonia. Because, fortunately, the whole people of Catalonia do not share the vision of division, do not share this radical independence that can lead Catalonia to poverty and loneliness. I would ask you to be able to understand that Catalan society is plural, that you are able to hear that there is a part of the population that defends postulates independence, but that it is not less certain that there is a 52_percent of Catalans that we want to be deep Catalans, that we want to continue to feel deep Catalans, but that we do not want anyone to force us to renounce our feeling of being Spanish. And it's true that it's not all the same: some can feel more Catalans than Spanish, others can feel more Spanish than Catalans, some can be federalists, the other autonomists, others..., we feel with equal conditions..., Catalans and Spanishs, but in the end, we represent a plurality that has made this society strong, the Catalan society. Therefore, when there are speeches like what you have just made this late – you, on behalf of all the people of Catalonia – that defense proposals that are on the margins of legality and defense proposals that go against union and common sense, we are deeply concerned. And that is why I must say, Mr Puigdemont, that we are very afraid that you will not be at the height of the circumstances. We can't have hopes with someone who catalogues Spain or the Spanish State as a locksmith, like a sewer. We can't accept that someone is saying that..., we can't accept that a person, to the presidency of the Generality, is saying, as you have done on occasion, that those we don't feel independent, that those we don't feel, only and exclusively... that we don't want to give up the feeling of being Spanish, we're invaders. This is a proposal and these are some ideas that we would not accept from the People's Party of Catalonia. And I want to tell you that we, from the People's Party of Catalonia, will fight against this reality; a reality that cannot be brought forward, as I have pointed out to the beginning of my intervention, and that will die especially thanks to three factors. The first, that this proposal or this idea of government, that you have proposed to us, is illegal and will not have any alliance in the world, further away, perhaps, from the friends of the CUP, of the Bildu ; that it is a process that goes against Catalan pluralism and that the majority of Catalans do not want to break, nor radicalism; and, three, that the firmness and clear will of the Government of the People's Party will not allow it. The People's Party of Catalonia will continue to defend in this Parliament the genuine priorities of Catalans, so we know that it is the one that must be given priority and that needs Catalans: economic progress and job creation, coexistence and social cohesion, better education, the guarantee of quality health for all, the provision of social services for the third age in a very special way; a new model of financing, and here has been referred, by other parliamentarians, by other group presidents, to the model of financing. And it's true: Catalonia doesn't have a good funding model at this time. That's right. Catalonia does not currently have a good funding model. But I would like to recall that this model was approved by the tripartite, which ruled here in Catalonia, and by the Government of Spain presided over by Zapatero. And the current Government of Spain, the Government of Mariano Rajoy, has made it very clear that now that the economic situation, that now that the state of the public accounts is being balanced, can be posed this new model of financing, that new model of financing that for Catalonia, that for Catalans is more fair, a model of financing that gives more economic resources in order to be able to carry out what are the priorities that we Catalans have, but that does not intend to mark a differential fact with other territories nor intends to point out to Catalonia, from an activity point of view, to carry out activities that, as I say, are not the priority of the vast majority of Catalans. Do we want more economic resources? Yes, but we want them to improve health, to equip justice with the right means to carry out its work with guarantees, for better schools and institutes, but not to open embassies, not to initiate the process of rupture and the process of separation between Catalonia and the rest of Spain. Therefore, if we go in this direction, the People's Party is willing to go hand in hand with those who propose, from legality, from solidarity, and from responsibility, an approach along the lines that I am pointing out to you. That is why at the moment, and when the new government is about to be formed, when it is about to be..., the new government will be in the coming days, at the moment when..., in the next few minutes, in a few hours, we will appoint a new President of the Generalitat, I want to point out and make very clear, on behalf of the People's Party – and I was saying at the beginning of my speech – that we will not allow you to start any process of breaking up Catalonia with the rest of Spain, we will not allow it. Although from the People's Party of Catalonia we are very aware that, from the minute one – and you pointed out it in your speech – from the minute one, all those proposals outside the law, which appeared in the resolution adopted on 9 November, will be reactivated. And for this it is absolutely necessary that the Government of Spain can face, with a strong and stable government, which represents the majority of the country in order to respond to the most likely and certain independence challenge that you are going to pose. And here I would like to take this opportunity to ask Members of the Socialist Group to work in this direction. At the moment, Spain and Catalonia need those with government responsibility to put aside our differences, to put aside what separates us and to work and prioritize what is really urgent and priority. And at the moment, the urgent and priority, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, is to prevent the new government of Catalonia from starting the process of breaking up Catalonia with the rest of Spain. The People's Party – and here I want to address all Catalans and also the men and women of the rest of Spain – will ensure from this chamber, from this Parliament, that no one is going to coerce neither the freedoms nor the democracy of all those we do not bet on independence, of all those we do not bet on the adventure of breaking Catalonia with the rest of Spain. We will ensure that Catalonia – and listen to me well, Mr Puigdemont – will remain Spain. In spite of you, your fellow candidates and your fellow travellers, Catalonia will continue to be Spain. And no one is going to divide us and no one is going to separate us, because it has been a lot that we have worked and that we have walked together, over the last few centuries, so that someone, so that a group of parliamentarians, so that some political forces, which do not represent the majority of the Catalan Parliament, put it at risk. Have... – and I finish my speech already –, have the absolute certainty that from loyalty, from responsibility, from respect, no longer unique and exclusively to the Spanish Constitution, but to l'Statut de Catalunya, they can have the People's Party as a loyal and responsible opposition. Now, as they try to advance along the path of rupture, the path of division and the path of everything that we have all achieved for many centuries and many years, from the People's Party of Catalonia, we will make the opposition that will stop the feet to those who intend to break what, as I have said, has united us for many years. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.14.0	The word "Mrs. Anna Gabriel", spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.15.0	Hello, very late – evening –, president, all of you, on behalf of the CUP - Creed Constituent, and therefore, on behalf of the companies, Members and Members of the Parliamentary Group, a brief intervention in this Plethora of Investment. A plethora that, for us, gives the sort of exit to the legislature that is derived from September 27th and that, therefore, has a marked character of exceptionality – so, as we want it to be – and, in this sense, we have worked and commit ourselves to following it. Exceptionality, because, we have said it repeatedly, it has to be a legislature of breaks, changes, transformations, reptes; a legislature that more clearly recovers from what should always have been the institutions: a clear reflection of the popular will, of the will of the people of the street. Today we invest a president, this president will form a government, and it is clear that neither this president nor this government are the CUP - Constituent Creed - nor did we pretend. They will be the president and the government of the most voted list, the list of Junts for the Yes. Today we will invest a president who will form a government, we insist, because we make a gesture of trust, because we believe that we have begun to lay the foundations for the construction of this new republic. And that's why we cast eight votes in favour and two abstentions, because you let us, if you'll allow us, express the need and healthy difference that exists between us too. What for, those who wish for my uniforms. The CUP will be there, we said, if it has gone, and for us the game bears three names: independence, process and social rescue. The CUP does not think – it is obvious – to fail to represent either its program, its people or its bases. We will do what we have to do with the necessary responsibility, but it is obvious that we can't do it at any price and it is obvious that we can't do it either. In this sense, therefore, we recognize the goodness of today's words of Mr. Carles Puigdemont, and perhaps unlike the words he heard these last days from President Arthur Mas, in what seemed to be the result of September 27th and seemed to be coming, this agreement that we signed at a very late hour, as something that you had to see with the price of your head. I believe, we believe that these three months of bargaining tension may make us say things that come more from party readings than from the will to build folds, because we understand that we did not make an agreement of winners or losers. What kind of future will we start building if you start from these bases, huh? To the Illustrators of the CUP, the outsiders and the outsiders: the CUP has not come to disappear, the CUP we have just permeated the guide, the actors of a key stage in the construction of a republic that we want free and sovereign. After 27 September and in agreement with the commitments made in the campaign, the CUP - Crida Constituent we placed the bases of the next period in three pillars: the disconnection agenda with the State, configuration of the process constitute – which we wanted to be basic and popular – and the indispensable and never sufficient social rescue measures. But at the same time – it is well known – we demanded a shared command for these divisions, a command that you drew the plurality and transversality that exists in the independence camp, that you did not pivot, as you might have pivot in the later legislatures, into an ultra-presidential figure that might seem to collide the process with your person. Finally, it was so: let's start this stage with a different president, with a different government. Carles, you have the enormous – and I'm talking about you –, the enormous responsibility of being the president of the transition to the republic, you have the right to open the process even more, to win this social base that we so much need, you have the right to do it all fold more plural and more transversal; a right to seek agreement and, at the same time, to do it so that everything goes forward without undue delay. We have the opportunity to shut down stages, stages that we should not be able to re-edit, that we do not want to open again, that we do not want, therefore, that we should again regret or excuse anything in a while. You have, we have the opportunity to start a new path and that this one goes without a doubt towards a free country, it will rise, and that, therefore, you see in its sovereignties its better fortress of freedom. You have – because we have been compromised – divided up; therefore, the program that we want to listen to, above all, the program that we want to implement is not that program provided for by two or three normal legislatures, but we understand that it is the program that must make possible this full road to independence, this process constitutes and this social rescue. That's the real challenge. We have already said that we will not invest in an autonomous president; we understand that we are not doing so, but we are investing in a president who will lead us to a proper election, these yes, the constituents, who are sure that we will win them, and long. And to make it happen, we need the Republic to be the only hope for a large majority. And it is that around us there is a society that has a reputation for justice, democracy and sovereignty, that wants to decide how its country should be, what justice is to be built on and what social equality relationships are to be established. Around us – we know – there are people without a home, poor people – people, in fact, but poor people – people who are stuck, people who do not find in public sanitation their most important right. In our turn we have political repression, we have people who suffer for the judgments they have pending, despite the fact that some of them actually have the Generality withdrawn from their accusation. In our turn we have homophobia; in fact, we have young people who end up with their own lives so that they do not bear the harshness of the assets of those who do not accept identities that for us are, precisely, an expression of respect, wealth and genuine freedom. In our turn, we have victims of gender-based violence. We're still hiding the right to our own thing. We have infants who don't seem to have the right to sow. We have violent expressions of extreme right, consented, badly. In our turn we have natural resources in peril, we have a devastated mass territory and a bottle of totxo that offends us. But it is also true that in the front we have the best structure of state that can have a country, that it is its people, and above all this: the people who fight, the people who are manifested, the people who write, the people who think, the people who talk so that they can get that once and for all a rule is reversed that keeps indecent privileges, while expels their people to the worst of precariousness. The agreement reached by the CUP - Creed Constituent, therefore, makes indissociable once again the political identity that we have always claimed: we are independent, we are anti-capitalists and we are feminists, and we have not abandoned any of our bastions. That's why we commit ourselves, as we have tirelessly repeated, to everything I want to see with the break with the Spanish State, with the process, and with the social rescue. And all that we do at a time when we have the world absolutely hanging from us, and it's that also in the world, in a band of great misery, there are so many fighters. We have, therefore, also European institutions that follow are pending what we do, that curse to dictate the boats of our poor; some European institutions that have not understood that Europe – we have also said it many times, even though some continue without hearing it – is not that of the rich material; the best Europe we could have is that of the rich human beings. We also have before us a state that won't give up a thousand-metre. The elections of the 20th of December, widely commented, at the conjunction of the State, gave a victory for more than two thirds of congressional deputies to the forces of the regime: Popular Party, PSOE, Ciutadans. Two hundred and fifty-three deputies, 350: a majority more than absolute to prevent any space of sovereignty, right to decide or democracy. We have heard here today the speeches of his fellows in this country. They appreciate the efforts of a certain Spanish left to defend the right of the Catalans to decide freely on our future, but they will also have to hear that when this democratic future that is impossible from the hands of the State arrives, this permission that will not arrive..., they will help us to revoke their authoritarianism and their less-than-democracy and indifference and understand that unilaterality is the only one of the possible ways, if it is really that we want to make it possible to respect the right of peoples. You know that they are waiting for us, therefore, with this state at the front, with this European Union and with this world that is watching us, acts of firmness before the impositions that will come from its absolute legality. You know, ladies and gentlemen, it's up to us to resist. Let's get ready for the fight, let's get everything we can, because we're ready, and we're ready to win. We believe that from today we are being sent unequivocal signals to the one who can win us the social base necessary to make the construction of this republic irreversible. And these unequivocal signs are expressed in the form of collective struggles, collective struggles that can never depend on a single person. The republics are built by rescuing people, and not rescuing banks. The republics, effectively, are built without corruption. Six hundred_one accused of corruption in the Catalan countries: a scandal, and a scandal above all that is permanently absolved corruption for which the Spanish State has ruled so far. The republics can also build up a sense of solidarity and internationalism, tender and firm. And we understand that so, and only so, and with the maximum of the expressions of collective fortality, which are social participation and mobilization, we will make possible this worthy republic, the republic of social conquests, the republic of democratic conquests that some understand we do not all want. And on the line of unequivocal signs, and also on the part of the CUP - Constituent Creed, we lay on the table the usual generosity. We explained to the country as well as we could. We do not do it as a cessation, we do it as part of the political culture of the left. We teach our debates, we show our differences and we have no problem recognizing it when we haven't done the right thing. This is an indestriable component of our political culture, as it is – you know – that we do not make our profession of politics. That's why we can also assume that some of our companies are being taken care of, because we find ourselves, as it is obvious, where we feel best, that it's on the street. And in the last place, and as we share that now it's time to have a sense of country, the sense of country, for us, is to regain popular power. The parties, the institutions, the elected bodies, we're finally an instrument, and we're not done with ourselves. Therefore, we, the people of the CUP - Constituent Creed, our fem – in their moment we made it – the statement of November 9 and all that it offered us. We ask you to take your engine with your extended hand to independence. We go slow – we said it – because we go far; also far because we continue to the Catalan countries. Do yours the punch against injustice and inequalities. Make yours look of compromised hope. And while we give you the little but the best we have: the word, the heritage, the memory, the perseverance and, above all, the new world that we carry to our hearts. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.16.0	The parable is given by the illustrious Lord Jordi Turull, president of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.17.0	Thank you very much, President. Many honourable President of the Generality, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Lords and Lords of Deputies, Presidents Rigol, Benach and De Gispert, Authorities... I also want to pay a special greeting to all those people who, through the different means of communication, are following this solemn session from Catalonia or here before itself, in Parliament, already remain with expectation, already with emotion. And in this sense I also want to refer in a particular way, surely, to all the citizens of Girona and the lands of Girona who are living in a special way as today will invest as president of the Generality his mayor, that person who has a thing for the city. And I also want to say hello to the people of Amer – I've seen their mayor here before – because today they see as the person they saw born and raised today will be the one hundred and thirty president of the Generality of Catalonia, one hundred and thirty of Catalonia, quarter of Amer. And I'm sure they may already be agitated, but that's not why I'm sure that today, for a lot of people from Amer and Amer's father's oven, it must be a special day, and so I'm sure that today there are a lot of people who have seen this session, as I said, with expectation and emotion. I compare on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes to express our support for the candidate for President of the Generality, Mr Carles Puigdemont, and also to express our support for the government program he has exhibited. Allow me, however, that in the first place I begin my intervention more situated in the land of feelings, than not in the land more close to the political content. Politics makes people, and people also want to say this: feelings. And I don't want to store it or hide it, because politics, without conviction, but also without feeling, is very weak for itself, it's very false, it's not good politics and it's not good service. I think it's for a lot of people, not all of them, but for a lot of people that we're here, and we're living for a moment, in this solemn debate, with a lot of contrasting, entangled feelings, even if they might seem contradictory between them; feelings about people, feelings, and feelings about what we're going to do and what we're going to start, and also about how we've gotten here. Yesterday, in closing and announcing the agreement that brought us all here today, many lived that moment with a feeling and a feeling of bitterness; agri or sad in the most order of the factor and personal feeling and sweetness for which he can make us. Sad because it has always been said that great gestures and great reptes collectius require sacrifice and generosity. And yesterday it was produced by a person whom we think very much, who is very referent, one of the most important gestures of generosity and sacrifice that have been made in the history of this country; I refer to President Mas. [[Greetings. Pause.]] I had, President Mas, all the democratic right and legitimacy so as not to give up a first-class role in the culmination of a process that, thanks to many – many – many people, many entities, many politicians, many political parties, but also thanks to him, has been possible. He played it, he risked it, he was the object of the worst arts in politics by many practical powers, for his commitment to this historic process that he saw in our country. He, President Mas, had all the right won in the process, and all the legitimacy, and, on the other hand, he took a step along the line, just like the act of serving this process, once saw and found that the content of the agreement, as he had always claimed, had bases for the operation and efficiency it requires. President, often you use the words "ingent and" gegantí, the very uses, and your gesture of yesterday is indeed ingent and gegantí, and we do not want to be told. It's up to us, right now, to be worthy of this gesture of yours. Thank you, President, for the lesson you have given to this country, to us and to politics. A very different feeling, on the side of this, and living together the two of them, because yesterday it came to an agreement that allows, now, to start a legislature of a huge historical transcendence, a legislature that has to complete the democratic mandate arising from the ballots of 27 September and that it is not others, ras e court, that the process towards the independence of Catalonia. A feeling that yesterday we knew that now this is good, that now this is beginning, a feeling of living a historic and very powerful moment. And, finally, a feeling of total trust, for many reasons that I will refer to, of "appreciation and esteem to the person who has been proposed to be the new President of the Generality, in Carles Puigdemont, since the security that will do very well. Barred feelings that do not understand for others, years against, the transcendent moment that we live today and that we begin. I would say that this agreement, which was signed yesterday, allows us to begin. And things have to be said how they are and we have to put the point of self-criticism that comes, each in its right size, not to recreate ourselves, just to learn 'or be more self-demanding. It must have caused confusion, desanimity, to people who were very compromised and very involved in this process that they did not deserve, and we apologize. That's just what forces us to do better to do it. Now, in the same way that we do self-criticism and each one has to do it in the measure that corresponds to it, and we have apologized here, we also want to put in value that this agreement, precisely, is the obvious proof that, for everything – for everything – we have put the democratic mandate of 27 September and come to terms, as it is, in order to be able to do so. And there are so many generations who would not have forgiven us – those who are no longer there and those who will come – that we meant that we would fight until the last minute to make it possible. And we're here today. Perhaps for a few months we did not like each other, but we made it clear to everyone that what we have before us is to carry out the democratic mandate of 27 September. And just all these interbanks and what we've been through these days, not very edifying – and as you say, it's no harm that I won't come – if one thing proves is just the solid and compromise we have throughout this process. We are sorry for all those who were already screwing their hands; these three months we were stunned by saviors that heralded the disaster and sang the absolut policies of sovereignism in Catalonia, when in reality what happened to them was that they ignored and that is why they lacked the degree of solidity, of depth, that has this historical process that sees Catalonia. I'm sorry for them: the process is still alive, and they'll already apologize to us because from today we're putting ourselves to build a new state, which is no more than the Catalan state. I said in the previous debate that we were the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for Yes, not the parliamentary group of Juntes because yes, and now, thanks to yesterday's agreement, we would make this yes possible, this yes to the independence of Catalonia, that comes out and that there is no more power that has all the society to decide, that it is the ballot boxes and the papers. These days the word "coherence" has been the word of order in many areas: discussions, media, various tertules, referring to whether or not we can reach an agreement, whether we are coherent or not coherent, whether this will cease to be consistent in this or that will cease to be consistent in that; coherence as a trigger weapon or the debate of coherence as a trigger weapon to try to not produce the agreement. So, I want to talk about the agreement and I want to talk about coherence, because it's exactly the agreement that gives coherence to everything folded, because it's the agreement that allows us to move forward. It's the agreement that gives coherence to why we're here. We've talked a lot and talked a lot these days about what, how, when and who, but we've never lost sight of why we're here. We have never lost sight of why the President But he called plebiscite elections, we have never lost sight of the 2_million citizens who told us: "Yes, you go ahead. That's what's coherent, and not these supposed inconsistencies that want to magnify one song and another and that you don't know what the goal is, this one to magnify them. Coherent is the deal, because the deal and allows you to move on to where you've been compromised. The agreement that led us to hold this Ple is the agreement for the yes, to make the yes possible and to culminate in the independence of our country. And it's a good deal. And it's a good deal, first, because it's not against anyone; on the contrary, it's an agreement that gives satisfaction to the 48_per_cent who voted in favour of independence, the 2_million Catalans, invites and is thought to serve better and that sees better the 7_millions_i_mig Catalans. As I said in the other debate, we defend and want to take on the noblest cause: to be a state, to have the instruments of state, to be able to apply here the most just causes, which we cannot now: the causes of social progress, economic progress, social justice. And they can't because they don't stop by land, by sea and by air; because of the constitutional courts, because of the scan and the oec, because of the financial way, they don't know that we can apply the most just causes here. There are a thousand situations that justify it. How can it be that we are still in a state or that someone defends still in a state that is telling us that we, the Parliament of Catalonia, cannot do absolutely anything before the people of this country who have to sort between passing cold or passing win? What do we do, in a state that, when we want to act as people who have to sort between passing cold and winning, says to us: "Neither are you going to act and cancel everything? And so far we've arrived. And like this one, we could pose a lot of cases. When we want to carry, to the other extreme of another situation to improve our economy, actions in the field of the outside, and all are boycotts, and all are caught... That is why we need to have all these instruments that allow us to act in all that is of interest to the citizens of Catalonia, to defend the noblest cause in order to apply here the most just causes. We have also said this many times: types of warring us managing the wreaths, today the legislature begins to complete the pa sencer. It is an agreement which, as I said, is not against anyone, which surely satisfies the 2_million Catalans who vote in favour of independence, but which invites everyone, absolutely everyone, to be an actor and not a spectator of the design, of the configuration, of the modeling of which this new state must be. This is the attitude of the agreement: that everyone can incorporate, in this way without return, and that everyone can say his own, because we have this new state, be a much nicer state, much fairer, much more modern, serving the citizens of this country. This is an agreement that also reflects that the sovereignist process is ideologically solid and plural. It's together for the Yes itself, and with the agreement with the UPC, this plurality stands out. But the same agreement, also the kingly thread of this agreement, the one that they claim – and it will be throughout the legislature – is to broaden the base for all sides – all sides – that there may be more people and more people who differ from one another to feel that they are involved, that they feel compromised, starting with those who still have or have a longing for what the Spanish State, respects Catalonia's longing, could change. Some have spoken of the reference and have linked it to an electoral result, but before the observation that, like the Parliament of Catalonia there are Joints for the Yes, in Madrid there are joints for the no– PP, PSOE, Ciutadans, etcetera, therefore, many of you, and before this impossibility, which will last a long time, surely you could incorporate here. Others are offering us to "let it run, and it has been expressed here by Mr. Iceta," to "let it run and" the dialog, and the dialog and the dialog. And they say, "Dialeg, when in reality what you're wearing is pissing off the loser." And he lost it, like the chicken, he said it was bad. And that's why there are a lot of people who are already screaming and have decided... (Applause. Pause. ) And this is an agreement that doesn't forget the while, the while we're still not independent. And that's why I want to value what we've been working on, and a lot: the social agenda, with all the follow-up of measures that everyone knows, that has been public and notorious, some of them derailing the government program; the presidential candidate also referred to it, right? We will work for the hour, but we will also work for the while, because while there are situations, there are people, with names and surnames, who can wait neither divided, nor fifteen, nor came, nor twenty-five months. And, therefore, there is a compromise here – and the candidate for president has made it clear – to pursue all the efforts that are needed in all these situations that cannot wait for their emergence and social need. Only with a limit, and a limit of political honesty, that where it is compromised by writing, where it is compromised by the plan of government, by writing in the plan of government offered to us by the candidate for president, there is only the limit that what is said can be completed. Because there is nothing more insensitive, but more immoral, which, because the paper endures everything, compromises 'even the most vulnerable to one thing and which then cannot be completed. We will act, in this moment, in the camp of social emergencies; how we will act, in this moment, in everything that supposes to help those people who are generating wealth, because if you do not help to generate wealth, you cannot distribute wealth. To all those entrepreneurs, to all those autonomies, he has referred, and also has generated many performances the candidate for president, in Carles Puigdemont. And that's why there's going to be a lot of action on which are the basic axes and the basic pillars of our economy, and it's going to be from infrastructure up to research, from internationalization so powerful that we have – but you can't say it and you have to go any further – from our economy up to training, we'll also be doing this while we're at it. And, finally, this is a good agreement, because it establishes bases that facilitate the operation and effectiveness of the agreement itself, which was in that which the President But insisted so much and that the process could not lose – and this is where he referred to the "corco–", and that is parliamentary stability. Because this process is so powerful – and then I'll talk about the adversities – that what you can't do is more in this room, what you can't do is baptize. And, therefore, a basic issue, which in the words of the president was to give it efficiency and operationality..., therefore, the issue of parliamentary instability was so important. It's not a sanitary rope with political parties, it's not. Here it is not asked of someone who quit voting with others, here it is asked that when those things happen – which is often enough –, that the priority of a certain number of Members is not what will be approved, but to leave the Government in a minority – and this has happened a few times, that it is not a priority if it agrees with one thing or not, it is a priority to leave them in a minority – so that these situations..., this is not going to happen. They're not saying that we can't vote together with this and the other, because they already see that with the way we're going to do it, we'll agree in many votes, because that's the character of our way of being and our way of doing it. It's a good deal, because the moment is transcendent and what we're going to do is absolutely historic. For another generation, he's done it. Some, obviously, and today we have seen, they want to take transcendence, they want to decrease it, they want to come here today to make an ordinary debate, of ordinary autonomic parliament, to neglect the process, to see if they have fun..., and to have a... Listen, the moment is transcendent, the moment is historic, there has been no ingenious gesture, as the President of the Generality has done, for an ordinary legislature of an ordinary parliament, it is not that, and you know it. And you come here and try to have fun, but, look, you know what? Now I could get into a lot of things they've said, but I think... it's that you're answering yourself, coming to do this. I don't think it's worth it, they come here demanding a match, I look at myself, I say, "But, listen, a match? But, I don't know, maybe they start at his place. Or the angry song: "That you divide Catalonia, and tell it a game that was created to divide Catalans from the school itself, I mean, some things... Listen, look, I don't know, we... if you don't know how hard it is, if you want to follow the usual politics, if you come here to cook, you'll apologize, because we'll dedicate ourselves to building a state. And that's what we came here today to do. [[applause]] I'm sorry, but we came here today to build a summer. Because, don't be fooled, that's serious, that's for sure, we're entering the most decisive and transcendent phase. We know that it will not be easy, we have said it and we have repeated it, we know that there will be many adversities to which we will face, but our commitment and determination are total and with all consequences. I repeat, total and with all the consequences, because we will not do anything other than what the citizens of Catalonia have sent us through the ballot box. We'll face a state, because this one wants to, because this one knows and offers Catalonia the way of the threat and the resignation. Yesterday, again, and it seems to me that from here to a moment it will be the same, its reaction was the same, before an agreement of an absolute majority of deputies to the Parliament of Catalonia, coming out of the ballot box, its reaction was its particular angry song of giving judicial threat response to which it is a political cry. We know what we're dealing with and what we don't have for, we have illusion and determination, because this democratic mandate is gone. And that's why, where they'll be prosecutors and courts, in all this process, we'll put ballot boxes and papers there. We want to do it and we want to do it right and we want to do it right and with dialogue with the State, as the resolution we approved on November 9th says. And it is clear that our flexibility, Mr. Rabell, does not criticize our flexibility, because I see that Mr. Errejón has understood it and you still do not. We in this process are not static, we are flexible, to the service that the process went well. We want to do it this way, but if the attitude of this state does not change, let them know that nothing will stop this democratic mandate, because we have said it and have said it many times. And, Mr. Albiol, I can also tell you by looking at the eyes, look at'mal eyes: the future politics of Catalonia will not decide it in court, it will always decide the citizens of Catalonia [[applause]] That must also be made very clear. We know what we're dealing with, as I said, and we don't have for, we have illusion and determination. We are there, and we will not fail, but more than one parliament with parliamentary instability, and with total determination, a government and a powerful president fall into this legislature. A legislature with a compromise that must be intense, must be historic, and we firmly believe that the candidate, in Carles Puigdemont, meets all the conditions to be a very good president in this extraordinary legislature. Carles, you've seen who gives it to you, who gives it to the unionists, when they can't fight back with arguments, they've started with defamation and personal deprivation. This is going to be here, you know what's wrong with us. We believe that he is a magnificent candidate and that the proposal made by the president is completely uncertain, because we believe and see – and we are direct witnesses – his solidity and personal integrity. By his way of being and doing, by his personal trajectory, by his training, by his knowledge of the world, he is a person who has always been completely compromised with what we are coming with... and with why we are here today, with what is ambitious for the people of Catalonia. In all colloquials, it is there that a patriot of chopped stone is said to be. A person who knows perfectly, because of his institutional trajectory, the world, the entrail of institutions and public management. A person who, moreover, reconnects and embodies a whole supply of new people who come from the municipal world, who come from the politics of few streets, the politics of feeling and feeling problems and feeling that these problems have name and surname. It appreciates the trust given to it by the citizens, these names and surnames, of the politics of the mayor of Girona. A person who also, and at this time and in this process, embodies – and I also believe that it is a recognition to all of them – a municipal world that has also been compromised, and a lot, with the process that some years ago saw our country here. It is often said, these days, of the seventy-two members who are in favour of the independence that we are here, but they cannot forget in any way, and that they should always be present and go to one, for the institutional and democratic potential that they represent, the hundreds of mayors and thousands of directors compromised with the independence of Catalonia, of parties that are also absolutely different, but that are together with the service of this cause. And he, as president of the Association of Municipalities for Independence, will surely know how to take advantage of and have present this institutional revolution that at this time and that during the process, also at the side of President But, they knew how to demonstrate, because we need all the institutional strength and all the democratic force to pull forward. For all these reasons, and we can speak in more praise for the direct lives, not for what it is to say, but for what you hear the candidate say, we will vote with all conviction in favour of the presidential candidate. Carles, tell you – you feel that today we are all taking advantage of it to say « Carles, because one hour from now you will be President Carles Puigdemont –: you will do very well. And us, next to you. And like you said, we'll leave pride, take dignity, do it right, do it together and make it possible. Many thanks, President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.18.0	After the speeches of the parliamentary groups, Mr Carles Puigdemont, candidate for the presidency of the Generality, has the words to reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.19.0	Well, thank you, President. I'll be excused if I can't answer everyone or do it in a very orderly way, but I've tried to follow all of you's arguments. I will try to give an individualized answer, even though it is fast, but I would like to give a global reflection to all of you, before starting with Mrs. Arrimadas. Feeling them to you I have seen – I have seen – that there are many aspects of the plan of government that you do not dislike them. It's more, even some of you have come to say that it didn't sound bad, that even something else might agree with it. And if that's the case, we'll see, because as far as the legislature is concerned, there will be a lot of questions that will be very clear about political positioning..., and this is where you'll see if there are any differences between Catalans who vote yes or who vote no, because the social measures that are presented here will be for all Catalans. I am convinced that their harm at the time of positioning themselves in relation to the independence process will not prevent them from supporting us. Otherwise, it would seem to me, because I have also been given to hear in the summary or in the conjunction of interventions by opposition groups or groups that would not support the investiture and the plan of government, that you are like a few joints if you weren't: if you weren't independent you would be very good at it, if you weren't introduced to me by someone who is a Convergence activist, man, drink well. Listen, no, let's make the effort, all folded, to try to properly interpret what the people ask of us and transcend the ribs and harms and let's identify what we will know from the table of this Parliament, which allows the people to advance, the people with names and surnames, the families, the people who worry about everyone, you too, but to us even more, because we have governance responsibilities. For all these people it is for whom we have to leave a little band harms, labels, hardships and know how to identify and disagree where to disagree, but have courage, the courage to accompany us in those measures that you know will be good. Mrs. Arrimadas, I see that you have done an archaeology exercise 2.0 and will be working, because I am on Twitter for more than eight years; before it is known that I was the candidate I had already won, without buying one, almost twenty_ thousand followers, and with proper merits. And so, as I can hear, I've been running my Twitter profile for many years. I've said a lot of things to you. I never had to ask for forgiveness for anything. If I could ever have gone too far with an expression, it didn't make me interact with any other users to comment on it. But I would recommend two things. The first, raise here the look of Twitter. Let's all look up on Twitter. Because the people's republic understands people, and facts, and direct knowledge. Whether it is interpreted or reinterpreted or simply settled with the one hundred and forty famous characters sometimes open the door to making great headlines, to making some lucky expression, but to deep injustices. And a few days ago Zygmunt Bauman did an interview with El País; I recommend it, in relation to that, because I think I could put a little bit of a matte on this one a little uncontrollable point to try to interpret reality with the exclusive eyes of social networks. All of us would have a more natural look; let's raise the view of Twitter and Whatsapp, and then, maybe, surely, we'll hear better. And I would stop you, and Mr. Albiol, from having the same community manager, because he recommends the same one I posted on Twitter, I would stop them from doing something a little harder than the ridiculous. You remind me that I once said we were going to fight the invader. And don't worry about anything else – don't worry about anything else. Look, I made this statement... you must have picked it up from a diary, which is not Catalan, which gathered an unfortunate statement from a person who corrected it from my intervention in what it did..., I don't remember whether it was the 70th anniversary or the 60th-nove, exactly the day it had sunk in Carles Rahola. Carles Rahola was a journalist, an intellectual, a good person who never took a weapon, who was executed for the Franco regime shortly after arriving in Girona. And he had a witness who basically served three articles of opinion published in the Autonomist newspaper, one of which was said "against the invader." And you know what that article said, and I hope you agree? It is complaining of the deaths that were produced in the bombings of the Italian Faixista aviation in the Carrer del Carme, a short distance from what is the antiairy refuge which he also glossed in one of his famous articles, which were used to sniff it. And, therefore, when I allude to Carles Rahola on the day of his anniversary of his sinking, I did so for some values that I hope you shared, that this type of invasion..., that is, the cluster of fascism over our lives we never want. (Applause forts and perlongats.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.20.0	Let the candidate continue, please. Please... [[The applause continues.]] Please let the candidate continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.21.0	I suppose, after that, I don't think I should tell you what your opinion deserves me, according to which the difference between you and us is that we defend democracy, with us referring to you. I don't think I've ever heard of it. So, given these advices, listen, you talked about a health care line, when you confided in it with parliamentary clearance, and it seemed to me that you wanted to introduce yourself, a little, as if suddenly and again you discover the bonds of negotiation and claim. He won't win us in this; he won't win us in demand and he won't win us in negotiation and negotiation proposals and in loyalty to governments that weren't ours. History, and in particular the history of Convergence and Union, is full of it. But on the side of that, to do justice to this claim, because no one thinks that this is not today, it should be put on the balance of results, and how it has been dealt with this joy, and how it has been returned, or returned to that effort, much compromised, with much wear, for the benefit of this agreement, and what are the results. And if today we can regret it, not for days, and sadly I think it will pass again, the fish used to operate the trains is because the agreements resulting from this negotiation that you claim have not been completed. Forward; I intend. We'll see very soon, you, this government of change that they say, that they wish there would be in the Spanish State, which is what it does for sanitation, which is what it does for the railway corridor, which is what it does for the rolling system. I am convinced that you will achieve all that you have proposed, but for the time being, allow me – allow me – to be a skeptical point. Mr. Iceta, I thank you for all of this, so that I will only answer half of your intervention because the half has not been addressed to me, it has been addressed to Mr. More. I understand... and it doesn't seem to me honestly just because he can't defend himself, but I will understand that... he will understand, go, you, that I refer to what you asked me, asked me concretely, or interpreted. He asked me if he was going to work for the citizens who didn't vote... or that you say they're not represented in this 48_per_cent, in these 2_million citizens who voted. How would you like to doubt it, Mr. Iceta? Is it to say, in another way, if you preside over a socialist government, with a legitimate socialist majority, you would accept that someone doubted that you would rule beyond what they voted for? I wouldn't accept it, I wouldn't do it; so you don't. If I give it away, I'll take it back, but put the good before the wound, I won't come out, and less to you, because I wouldn't have to hurt you about it, because I'm not from your glue. So, if you have motius, I'll accept it, we'll discuss it, I'll try to argue it, but before the letter, no, huh? And so he'll dispense me, that I didn't like this reference, because I seem to have wanted to do something that..., he tried it on another occasion, that I didn't like it either, because he did..., I explicitly said that I would work for all Catalans, there will be no trace in my intervention that you allow him to say – in fact, that you already know – that Catalans will be separated between good and suffering. I know so much, and he still admits that I didn't say that. But, well, since I didn't say it... I could have said it because I'm fine with my speech being able to say it because, like I have this perception of what this government's capture is supposed to be, I say. But, Mr. Iceta, I said exactly the opposite. It is more, I will strive exactly to do exactly the opposite of what you have. I insist, I'll give it back to you. Do you consider Parliament's statement to be valid? Do you plan to develop it? Well, apart from quoting just two editorials, I would recommend that you read more quickly; these two diaries too, but a little more would not go badly, because I feel it often, quite often, quoting the same editorialists and the same heads, which is very good, which are great diaries, but in Catalonia there is much more, which they think differently and which for their understanding of Catalonia's transversality would also go well, because I read them, those which you have quoted, but I also read the others. Well, what do you think? What answer can I give if I come from an assembly that is being investigated by the National Court for deciding to give support to the declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on 9 November? I've told him everything – I've told him everything. Therefore, it is clear that it is – it is clear that it is. Have we foreseen the costs of placing Catalan institutions outside the law? It is that we will not place them out of the law, Mr Iceta; there will never be this Parliament out of the law, it will never be. This Parliament is a legislative chamber that does law and defines a legal _framework, and therefore its natural is to do things according to the legal order that it is endowed with. So, this desire that we place ourselves outside the law, that... well, you can go ahead with it, but, I return, I refer to the results that you will have occasion to prove. On the subject of splits, look, if it can last fifteen, fantastic, and it won't have any problem if it lasts twenty, I understand. But we have been committed to a temporary, transitory, exceptional and unrepeatable period. And we all want to do it well so that we don't have more time in the account to complete this process that has charged us with citizenship. [[Greetings.]] It seems to me that it is quite clear who are the contents of the government program, which is to develop with all the agreements that are needed, naturally; Mr. Turull has already referred it to the rock board. And finally you were talking about the election law, which is available. I believe that it is an absolutely honest and sincere arrangement to put it back, and I am convinced that its competition will be important to be able to achieve it. And then he talked to us about the Catalonia-Spain relationship using the concept. Home, « fit... ; can we begin to overcome this '« fit? And could we start talking about a relationship of equals, a relationship of just correspondence? Why does this fit, do you know what it means? , that the boxes are forced, because, if one thing doesn't just fit, it has to go tight, and at the end of thirty years of going tight this thing doesn't fit; in other words, in this concept it doesn't fit, because we don't want to be packed, we want to have a normal relationship – normal. (Applause.) And as an alternative to what our project is, and you, of that, don't find out about us again, because they carry it many years defending, it tells us about federal reform. I'll just tell you one thing, Mr. Iceta: federalism is a felicitous demonstration. Okay? And when a government has the chance to run, then it's when it shows it, and if it doesn't, maybe it doesn't believe it so much. And I recommend some advice, that I take it, and I am convinced, too, because you know that you know people who know me and who appreciate me, that I will not know it: seny, seriousness, calm, prudence and humility. Each one has its temperament, but in many of these definitions and advices, in this sense, I do hope I can give it satisfaction. Mr. Rabell, sometimes... forgive me, huh? You and I don't know each other, and so I'll get used to it, but I thought I was very angry. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. (Laughter and background voices.) Huh? Yeah, right? A little bit. Okay. (Founding voice) I don't know; I've tried to keep a little friendly, conciliatory, respectful. And if I've pissed him off at anything, I'm asking him to let me go, but I didn't want to piss him off, did I? I know, that a dimingo late is one thing, a little bean coming here to Parliament, and that you must bother someone who is watching us on TV, with, but... ( Josep Lluís Franco Rabell says: "Better comedy, right?) No, no; no horse, no horse – no horse. Now I thank you, from the beginning, for a statement of principles. I think... and, therefore, I will also be loving. You obviously have to be loving what I do and what the government does, because it's its democratic function and it has the right and the right to do it. You said: "I want to make a responsible opposition. I think so. And I'm sure he will. And, therefore, I take the word from him and from what he thinks you may not be faithful to this I will allow myself the freedom to say it; but, if it does, too, I recognize..., I have no problem recognizing it. It seemed to me that I was doing a toilet as if I did not express a compromise with the problems they have, for example, gay, lesbian, transsexual and bisexual people. Just tell him that until now I have been the president of the Municipal Council of Gais, Lesbians, Transsexuals and Bisexuals of Girona, and that we were one of the first gatherings to push him. And, therefore, in this sense, my commitment in this area is absolutely unequivocal and indefensible. Well, you also referred to many issues that have more to do with Spanish politics, that have to do with interpretations of why they take us as a party key... I have no interest in making interpretations as a party key, neither of mine nor of yours. Captain. Because he doesn't play. Because my commitment goes beyond that. Completely. And because the president's gesture and gesture, the agreement that we worked together for the Yes and the CUP is not worth that the one who is present as a candidate for the presidency of the Generality, the fruit of this exceptional consensus, profited this to try to use the position of the charge in party claus. And I won't. And that's all there is to it. You can keep talking about Convergence, I don't know what... okay. But I will not answer you from this; I will answer you from my actions, from my commitments, from what I do wrong if you think I do wrong, but listen to me, another archaeology menu not to me. And, therefore, I hope you don't offend because you don't answer it in this sense. You..., it is true that some expressions have not pleased me, and I want to say to him without any great pleasure: "Semiatruites, as they mean we are a glue of illuminates, or a glue of illuminates, or a glue of inflamed, or I don't know how you say it. And then he says: "And that's why we propose to negotiate a reference with the State. Fantastic. (Rialles the applause.) Mr. Rabell, I won't call this anything, will I? Therefore, I can continue to do whatever I want, but I will not qualify it. Mr. Albiol, you don't do this whole thing, let's face it, almost warning and threatening. I can look at the eyes without any problem, no, no..., we already know you and me from before; therefore, I have no problem talking to you in the way that anyone does; the one that happened, which seemed to me, apart from a lot of repetition, a lot of repetition, that at some point and everything seemed to me condescending and a bit less to my person, that does not make me feel better, makes you feel better, uses this whole thing, if not..., does not look at it. And, therefore, we can tell ourselves things, not that I go to this condescension, because... I, at least, don't like it, I don't want to treat any of these hardships, I think that everyone deserves respect for their positions, listen to them; I listened to them carefully, and I tried to make the effort, even so, that if any of the preconceived or sabud ideas and then after the follow-up of their speeches, you could have denied it, I would have corrected it and I would have said it, but it wasn't like that. But I will continue to listen to you, to see if you at some point change the perception of what is going on in the country, because here there are some of the mistakes that have been made in the last few years. I have not come to teach lessons, but neither do I accept that I am going out of democracy, of democracy, you. Moreover, I did not speak on behalf of the whole people, I spoke for the whole people. I spoke because all the people can feel represented by a presidency that they can have and that they obviously have the ideas that they have, but that they have the duty to represent everyone and to do what they can because everyone feels concerned at this political stage. And that, as soon as I weigh it, we'll get it. Do you know how to get it? With something that will soon be found in the calendar, which is the process, which will be a fabulous and colossal citizen participation, because the citizens say which constitution they want for their country. And you know what you'll find? What a lot of people who may have voted, voted or voted that no independence will feel much of their Constitution, because they will have done it, because they will have participated in it and because they will assemble a lot, countries on the margin, in the Constitution that they would want for the country where they lived. And this is one of the great goals that the process has to open the base that some other porter referred to with a need that I actually share. Mrs. Anna Gabriel, of the CUP - Cry Constituent..., I agree with many of the things she has said; obviously, I thank her for the compromise, I thank her explicit support for the investiture and, therefore, for the government program, and I thank her, too, that on those axes that you have identified, that you formulate with your language and we with another, here we agree. And, therefore, I hope that the work that we have, which will be immense, difficult and sometimes so complex and contradictory, will prove to us that this is what we have undertaken, that we have committed ourselves before the citizens, that these are the means of bringing it to fruition. It's true, you're not choosing a president of the CUP, or a government of the CUP, are you? We don't... we don't even want to assemble, even though some people think the comb is coming together. [[relays]] But we don't... we don't want to get together. [[some applause]] - No, no, no, But I hope to find them for the way many times, although we start from different languages, different shapes... sure, huh? We do not insist on replenishing our great differences in many themes, but we agree on many things and I am convinced, because we have already done so in the past, that we will find ourselves in this way, when we need to talk, for example, as I said, about the process now, and, naturally, measures of social emergence. And it's true, the best state structure we have is people. That's absolutely true. And that's where we're going to prove to all the spokespersons that they still have some fear of who we're doing this process, that they're bosses, that we're showing that we're actually doing it for the first state structure that has a country, that has a birth, that's people. The birth is people. And, obviously, it's the landscape and it's the quality of the area, it's its water, and it's its pages and it's all that, but it all starts with people who want to be born. And you see, as we saw before the first intervention, many seconds back. And, therefore, we will never, ever lose sight of this, and I am glad that you say that you will not lose sight of it either. And, finally, Mr. Turull, thanking him enormously not only for the support, which he had already expressed to me, but for the kind words he had given to the President, first of all, because I think they reflect that these days we have had the opportunity to tell us, the people, in particular, the people of Convergence in the different organs that we have found ourselves, and I think that it is good that I have said it, and, for my person, for my personal references, for my vital references, that there are and will always be. And the origins mark, mark the origins and their context and conditions in which it is acquired or in which it has been donated to that origin. And to be faithful to this, to be faithful to a certain culture, familiar, to a culture of hearing the country and the proism is one day that leads you to accept a difficult decision at the time, as was the repte to the mayor of Girona, that today – I don't know whether people consider it obvious or not, but it wasn't people, obviously – we faced great and enormous difficulties, it was of great complexity, and also of great misunderstanding at the time, and it was possible, and it didn't seem so. So this is what helps me today to accept, with this dignity that I claimed before, the responsibility that will count on the support of the group of Junts for the Yes, to which I belong, the support of the deputies that Mrs Gabriel of the CUP has announced, and, therefore, of the majority of this Parliament, which therefore represents the majority of the people of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.22.0	Further, as the response has been joint for all parliamentary groups, in accordance with Rule 146.2 of the Rules, for the reply of each parliamentary group will correspond to a time proportional to the time spent for the candidate. The candidate has learned twenty-and-four minutes. Therefore, they would correspond four minutes to each parliamentary group. I, in this case, therefore, has the word for four minutes the illustrious lady Inés Arrimadas. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.23.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Mas, I don't see you... Mr. candidate, Mr. Puigdemont, as you can imagine, I have other more interesting things to do in life than follow you on Twitter. But this collection work I have not done – my time is scarce, especially to look at the accounts of others – have made it journalists; journalists also from Catalonia, also from Catalan media, of those who also receive subsidies from the Generalitat of Catalonia. So, I don't think you have any doubts. And besides, he didn't deny it. You haven't denied any of those tweets, and I think it's a sign that you really are aware that when you personally manage your social networks you own the words. And there is nothing more dangerous than a social network in the hands of a person who is not moderate, because it is shown as it is. And a person like you who aspires to be president of the Generalitat I think should have a characteristic and is moderation, and is able to represent a vast majority of Catalans. And I'm convinced that statements like the one you've made of cloacas, legal, these kinds of statements are not shared by a majority of Catalans. And then, regarding the appointment, well, you were in an act in favor of independence and you chose an appointment. I could have chosen many others, but he chose this one, which I think is very clear. And I am going to tell you one thing: you are not going to give me lessons in defending democracy or condemning Francoism, or in solidarity with the victims of fascism. Because I'm going to tell you one thing: retaliated by Francoism there are in many families, including mine. And as I know perfectly...( applause), and as I know perfectly what it is...( applause), as I know perfectly what 40 years of dictatorship mean, as I know perfectly what the Franco dictatorship meant in this country I will not allow anyone, no ruler to think that it is above democratic laws and justice. And that's why I'm telling you again. (Applause.) I do not have much time, but I have to point out that you have not answered the questions we have asked you. Are you going to negotiate with the Government of Spain improvements for Catalans, as is one of the obligations of the President of the Generalitat? I understand from your evasive statements that no, and it would seem to me to be a serious mistake, because you are closing the margin of agreement in Parliament with that clause that you are making health cordon to the parliaments, to the parliamentary groups that we represent to the majority of the Catalans' votes. The lock? And it also closes with the Government of Spain, which I think is much more interesting and much more feasible trying to negotiate, trying to get better things for Catalans than wanting to impose an independence that you know does not have the social majority of Catalans. Because, if not, I ask you: Do you deny the words of Mr. Homs who said that there is no majority to complete the process? Do you deny it, or do you agree with this statement? Because if you agree with this statement, what you are saying here today is not true. You're saying you have a social majority that follows you and it's not true: they say so even members of their own party. And if not, then say clearly that you are against Mr Homs' statement. I also believe that the most serious of all that you are doing is, precisely, to use that legitimate illusion and that legitimate hope of many Catalans to achieve independence. Because it is true: there is no social majority in favour of independence. There's never been one. But there are many Catalans who today believe the words of Mr Mas or, from now on, Mr Puigdemont. And you know you're promising things that you won't be able to fulfill. You know that you are saying that we are going to declare independence and that we are going to appear within the European Union and that we are going to have our own tax agencies and social security and customs agencies. You're lying. Even to the people who legitimately to many Catalans who have believed in their words. And I think it is the most serious of all that is happening here: that you have divided Catalonia into two and are disappointing, or will do, at two halves. And that's very serious, Mr. Puigdemont, because that's an inconvenience to grow, to move forward like Catalunya. I don't think we can try to build a country if we don't even respect the autonomous community we are. And I think that's a very serious mistake. Of course, you haven't talked about corruption. He's forgotten again. You haven't had time in 30 minutes to talk about corruption. It seems to me very serious to have again at the head of the Generalitat a person who does not speak of corruption, a person who gives support to the Pujol family, who has been unable to declare himself strongly against what is happening in Catalonia, of the three_per_cent. We once again have a president who denies that there is corruption, who does not include it in his debates, because not including it in the debates is not including it in government action. We again have a government agreement that does not speak of corruption – congratulations, gentlemen of the UPC, gentlemen of Esquerra, gentlemen of Junts for Yes – and we again have a person who does not speak of corruption at the head of the Generalitat. I think this is going to help you buy time, rebuild your game, but the time you're winning or trying to win is time for us to waste all the Catalans. There is room for agreement in this chamber to talk about social policies, education, health, negotiation with the Government of Spain. Because there are many of the things you criticize...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.24.0	Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.25.0	... of the Government of Spain – and I finish, Madam President – which we share. But we have to be united to have more strength and bargaining power. If you divide us, they will be winning those who want nothing to change, those who want us to be weaker divided. We are not going to fall into that trap which is very old, which is: divide and you will win. We are going to unite the Catalans and we are going to fight for there to be again in this chamber and in Catalan society dialogue, negotiation and common sense. I guarantee you, Mr. Puigdemont. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.26.0	The word has the illustrious Lord Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.27.0	Thank you, President. Very briefly. The candidate somehow restrained me from addressing the president in office, but I was already afraid of it, this one. In the previous investiture debate, I said to him: "It's because of how it ended that I'm going to miss the debates we had. And maybe that's why I let myself go. But I want to tell you something, taking advantage of this and, maybe, taking advantage of it, even, that it's not there. (Laughter.) Oh, perfect! (Rialles the applause.) It's just that now, it's going to seem... (Applause persist), now it's going to look like I'm saying it to be okay, because it's in the front. (Founding voice) No, it's not just that it doesn't go away, it's that..., I wanted to say..., and I took advantage of it that it wasn't there, to say that it is possible to establish a relationship of trust despite a deep political discrepancy, and that I, in my relationship with the president, discovered this, that it was something that I knew, frankly, because I didn't find myself in this situation. And that's what I meant. So I didn't want to stop quoting him. Then he criticized my quotes... Miri, I'll tell him something that I wouldn't want to look "paverous, but my readings are more extensive than my quotes. And tell him that I read eight diaries every day– well, "I may read a lot: full, eight diaries, and that, with regard to the declaration of independence, there were two diaries that were editorialized in favour of and against. But, of those who did so, I only wanted to sort the papers, we would say, Catalans; for this reason, because I wanted to support it with an argument, as I also did Mr. Francesc-Marc Álvaro to falsify an argument. I take the opportunity to repeat it: a 48_per_cent is a very important but insufficient xifra to skip the wall. I think so too. You upset me, or made me angry, in the sense of saying: "How can I doubt that I will work for everyone? Look, I can't doubt you, because... what I'm saying is that the process of these three months and a half, of some negotiations that didn't want to extend to others, have led to the feeling that ‘here is only one of those that we're in favor of the process, the one that the others think doesn't matter to us, and that's what I'm worried about. That's what I mean. Now, you say to me, "How can I doubt that? I'm not like that, and I'm going to do things so that all Catalans can feel represented and listened to by the presidency. Thank you very much. And I can tell him president and, besides, be happy to do it. Some questions, he didn't answer them, but I understand. I asked him: "Is the agreement on independence his plan of government? He didn't tell me; I take it he didn't. « Is there a split? You replied: "They may be less; I understand that it is the most divided – there has also been a reference from the UPC spokesman. Of the question of trust, he did not talk about it; I suppose this was a request for the investiture of Arthur Mas. Since it didn't happen, it also disappeared from the clock. I don't give a damn, he didn't answer me. Processes constitute. Miri, we are concerned about one thing in the process: that it is intended to develop from an assembly that it is not this Parliament and, therefore, they intend to go in and repeal the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy on the pre-eminence of the Catalonian Parliament in the Catalan institutional system. We don't agree with each other. You didn't mention it, but it's a reflection I want to make clear here. I asked him some questions about the government's organization, which you did not answer. A man who didn't want to answer, and he's on his right. We will know from the decrees that, if it is invested, it will have to sign tomorrow, but we would have liked to know if some of the elements that have been engaged in this long negotiating process are given by fact or not. But since only you can answer that question and you haven't, so... On the subject of completing the law... Forgive me, on the subject of fitting, « fitting, you have interpreted it as « forcing, but remember that in catalá we also speak of a « packed of hands. So it doesn't have to be another thing. And so there's a lot of ways to fit in, and there's a happier one. [[Widow's remorse.]] On the fact that it will not place out of the law, listen'm, perfect– perfect–; already we like it, that. Now I'm also saying: don't play word games sometimes, thinking of different legalities, and "I'll do my own... Finally, legality is one, there is a normative hierarchy, there are legal mechanisms to change it, but you can't ignore it. So much so, as I recall, that this Parliament, which approved with complete solemnity and very epic a resolution said: "I no longer accept the authority of the Constitutional Court, the first one that it did when the Constitutional Court called the high one is to submit to it allegations; therefore, I admit the authority of the Court. We, as it sounds good to us, like that. And what we believe we do, in compliment of our duty to this institution and to the people of Catalonia, is to point out the risks of ignoring a legality that ultimately, if you follow this path, would play against the Catalan institutions, the self-government of Catalonia and, ultimately, all its citizens. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.28.0	The word has the illustrious Lord Lluís Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.29.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr Puigdemont, let's see, let's defend the Catalan lexicon: « Semiatruites is a nice word of our culture that refers to those who conceive ideas without phonament or who make illusions, therefore, authentic illusions, that do not have phonament with reality. And that's exactly what I'm saying that represents the idea, that presents us as a banality, to say: "No, no, it's a reference? What a tough thing! Home, and as long as it's hard, and as long as we have to fight. The Scots had to work for a few years to get a reference, huh? , and it was a state with credentials, you might say, more democratic or more democratic traditions than those of the Spanish State. We could make this comparison, if you wanted to. They will have to struggle for years; therefore, of facilities, not one. Now, what's somiathruth is to think that, if that's difficult, but it's banality, it's sneezing and making them negotiate independence, negotiating secession on the part of Spain. That's what it's really like to be a somiathruite. And I'm convinced that, as you are intelligent people, it's that they don't believe it – it's that they don't believe it. I'd say at the very least, look, if you really represent independence, what it would be like to say is that independence is a very serious thing to leave it in the hands of the independenceists. I'm telling you honestly, and I'm not trying to play a word game with this. But if anyone really wants independence in this country – and there are people who aspire to this horizon, with all legitimacy – they should hear that to achieve independence it is necessary to gather up all those people who, until they do not want this objective, without sharing this tape, are willing to donate and fight for Catalonia's citizenship to take the word and be able to decide its future. And that's what's at stake – that's what's at stake – and that's what they can accept and accept people who don't want Catalonia's independence – who don't want Catalonia's independence – but they accept and admit the democratic need to respect the word of citizenship. And that's phoney. And in this, forgive me one more time that we talk about realities, fem numbers, you who seem so realistic: how many people do I support Catalonia's independence? Nor the half of the people of Catalonia. But out of Catalonia no one. In change, the right to decide or the possibility of a reference, each time more people – each time more people. And that, forgive me for saying, forgive us, tell us, the pride of saying, forms part of our struggle, of the effort of the progressive emerging forces, that they understand that it is impossible even to organize a democratic coexistence between the Iberian peoples without recognizing the plurinationality and freedom of expression of the peoples. And this we are getting to our people; not you – not you. Because you, proclaiming this illusory, unbelievably easy, that you are the first to not believe's, what is favored is the rock of institutional trains. Because, in Madrid, Mr. Rajoy, you don't make them at all. These bravadoes, these parliamentary bravadoes, they're filming them. They know you can't do anything about it, but it allows them to build a government and a public opinion against Catalonia. Mr Aznar has discovered that he can rule against Catalonia, that he can rule Spain against Catalonia, and you give him petrol. It is the two movements that are feedback and, indeed, to preserve power, one another and the other. I'm sorry – and I'm done with this – it's not archaeology, you're talking to me about archaeology. There's a piece of archaeology that he'll be declaring to the National Court in a few days, and he's the founder of his party, huh? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.30.0	The word has the illustrious Lord Xavier García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.31.0	Madam President, Mr Puigdemont, it is true that the independenceists in this Parliament have a majority in Parliament, but this majority in Parliament, this majority, you do not have it in society. And in Catalonia, among the men and women of Catalonia, you don't have a majority. And, therefore, differentiate it, because it is important, it is not a minor issue: you, on this bench, have a majority, because the election law allows it, but only have the support of the 48_percent of the population. So, the rest, 52_per_cent, we're not independent. And I ask him again: I don't speak on behalf of everyone. Because he did it, he did it in his first intervention, he had the pleasure of speaking on behalf of everyone, when he was referring to the government project that you want to captivate from tomorrow. He said: "I do not differentiate between good and bad, and, then, it has been reaffirmed that it will follow the full path of the resolution that was approved on the 9th; a resolution where it is very clear that they start the process of division of the Catalan society, that they force us to many Catalans, more than most Catalans, to be strangers in our own country. Isn't that split? Isn't that separating, Mr. Puigdemont? This is what you and your candidature companies and your travel companies are doing. Mr Turull, the future of Catalonia, that Catalonia is Spain..., the future of Catalonia, that Catalonia is Spain, we will decide among all the Spaniards. Because, if you have to change or you have to vary this country, you're not going to decide just one part against the rest, we're going to decide between all of you. And, therefore, be absolutely clear – and do not have any doubt – that no one will be allowed, while the People's Party is ruling, to initiate a process or to carry out a referendum on secession of one part of the territory against the rest. Don't have the slightest doubt. I also want to remind you that this Parliament has its own powers, and to try or pretend to legislate beyond what is its own competence, which we have many, Mr Puigdemont... Clearly, we are in favour of people not winning, nor cold; there is agreement. But we also agree that plants from hospitals that depend on the Government of Catalonia from thirty years ago can open, because they are empty. We also agree that it is possible to build institutes or public schools that have given and 12 years of age, because the Government of Catalonia..., does not form part of its priorities to pull these schools or institutes forward. And this is a competence of the Government of Catalonia, there is no responsibility of the Government of Spain. These people, those children who do not have schools, who do not have schools, also require – also require – the support and help and understanding of the Government of Catalonia, which did not have it at these times. And I say it very well, I know very well what I'm talking about, because, like you, I've also been mayor of a great city. So, let's devote your efforts to trying to give an answer to what is own competence, huh? And not looking for enemies on the outside. And one last question, and with all the love: Mr. Iceta, what's that he didn't understand? Tell your answer – I'll say it with all my love, eh? "Since you haven't answered me about the plan of independence, I understand you won't throw it away. But if he has clearly said that he is prepared to bring forward the resolution that was adopted, and that it is illegal, on 9 November in this Parliament of Catalonia! But if it's what they're saying clearly, it starts the process of creating structures of the state and of breaking Catalonia with the rest of Spain! That they're doing this to me with the heads of those responsible... [[Rialles.]] What's that he didn't understand? [[Voice remorse and applause.]] I'm telling you. Once and for all, the Spanish socialists and the Catalan socialists must position themselves, and in this case I can assure you that the vast majority of Catalans and Spaniards, beyond our ideology, want the political parties that we have the largest representation of this country to go to one in defense of what is common interest, of the Catalans and of the conjunct of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.32.0	The word has Mr. Jordi Turull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.33.0	No, in any case, also very briefly; more than anything because, like, if you get the president's candidate out again would come back and it would be a no-end, I think I'm going to have a little bit of a say in what he's been toiletd with, don't you? I used to say that we in this legislature, because we're here, we come to do something very big, very historic, right? And that maybe some have come here to do politics, cooks, I said. Of course, I have a debate of the President of the Generality's investiture to come out here with a discussion, that if this Twitter, that if I give it the other diari, that if I don't know what..., I, frankly, this in my people say "little work, and we have a lot of work." Or to enter into the discussion... Mr. Iceta, whom I very much appreciate, but today is not the debate of the government's organization chart, because you know perfectly well that the president will have to appear to explain the government, then we will have a debate about, so also the power of the government and the people also with all their virtues that it will have in this government, but today it does not touch, right? I, Mr. Rabell, let's just think about it, because I think that the speech you make, and with this semiatruity I don't think I respond well to what you are or at least to the foundational elements of many of your political forces, honestly I don't believe it – I don't believe it. And somiathritis is the one who expects the Spanish State to let us make a reference. And you say, "No, because Catalonia's independence is still more difficult. Miri, I think the story of Catalonia – I'm not a historian, am I? Mr. Junqueras could give me a lot of lessons – but in the end, when this country proposed something, when it wanted to, it saved it by decision of this country and not by help of the State. Do you want us to talk about the Catalan language? Would we have it? Would we have saved the words if it were for the State or for the decision of the people of this country? You're doing this thinking. Somiatruites is hoping that the Spanish State will let me make a reference, and I don't want to demerge the brave proposal that was held in its moment of a political force to bet on it, I recognize it, but there's Juntes for the No there. Together together together for the Yes, because there is together for the No. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Mr Albiol, the candidate for president has said so, but you, doing this politics of the angry song, he does not speak on behalf of everyone, he has said it: he speaks as a candidate for everyone, and he has said he wants to be and will be, and he has confidence. Just as the mayor has been – and if not, I speak to people there, they vote for what they vote for, and everyone's sure that they're like their mayor, all of them, all of them – the president will be, and this is his vocation, all of them Catalans. And don't say that we, as a concept, want to decide here alone against..., one side against the other. We don't go against anyone – we don't go against anyone. That's not against anyone. This is for the people of this country, it's not against anyone. We are not against Spanish people, if 70 percent of the people in this country have emotional and family ties! We're not against anyone. This is what we're doing here. And finally, finally, I think what I'm saying is that today's act is solemn, but also from the point of view of what we're starting to do. It's very big what we want, it's very ambitious, it's very historic and I'd like to invite everyone to feel like they're part of it, to feel like they're part of it, to feel like they're the protagonist of what we're going to do. That perhaps on September 27 they did not vote in favour of the independence of Catalonia, but precisely because what we are going to do is not only for whom they voted in favour of the independence of Catalonia, but for the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans, therefore, who feel they are called to participate. The candidate for president said: we will start the process constitute, everyone has to say his own, because the country and the State that it wants to build will be absolutely for everyone. And don't waste any more time saying that this is impossible and that this is impossible. I'll end up like that day with Marta Rovira we went to where you want to place us, to the exit box, to the Congress of Deputies, to Joan Herrera, and there all of us say: "It's impossible, it's impossible, it's impossible. You won't, you won't, on November 9th you won't. People won't vote on November 9. And I remember I finished my last speech with that phrase of Nelson Mandela who said: "It all seems impossible until it is done. So this time we'll do it, too. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.34.0	After the speeches of the parliamentary groups, we shall now proceed to the vote. Call it a vote. [[Pause.]] According to Rule 4.3 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government and Rule 147.1 of the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia, because the candidate was invested he has to obtain the votes of the absolute majority, 68 votes. This choice also includes approval of the government program. The vote is public by cry, it is voted by alphabetical order, starting for the deputy the name from which you went out by lot. [[The president takes a ball with the number of the deputy for whom the roll-call vote has to begin.]] Correspond to number 37, which is Mrs. Carmen de Rivera. [[Pause.]] I pray to the second secretary... [[remorse of the voice]] I ask the secretary according to whom I call the deputies and the deputies, and he will answer "yes," "no or declare that they are abstaining. The members of the Government who remain Members and the members of the Bureau will vote at the end. The vote's on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.35.0	Carmen de Rivera: "No. Francisco Javier Domínguez: "No. Chakir El Homrani: "Yes. He assumes Escarp: "No. Antonio Espinosa: "No. Albano Dante : « No. Alejandro Fernández: "No. Anna Figueras: "Yes. Natalia Figueras: "Yes. Josep Maria Forné: "Yes. Montserrat Fornells: "Yes. Josep Lluís Franco Rabell: "No. Anna Gabriel : "Yes. Jesus Galiano : « No. Xavier García: "No. María José García Cuevas: "No. Esperanza García : « No. Joan García: "No. Pol Gibert: "No. Joan Giner: "No. Gerard Gómez: "Yes. Eva Granados : « No. Hortênsia Grau: "No. Lluís Guinó: "Yes. Fran Hervías : « No. Rosa Maria Ibarra: "No. Miquel Iceta: "No. Oriol Junqueras: "Yes. Andrea Levy: "No. Gemma Lienas: "No. Lluís Llach: "Yes. Neus Lloveras : "Yes. Angels Martínez: "No. Eva Martínez: "No. David Mejía: "No. Juan Milián: "No. Enric Millo: "No. Raül Moreno: "No. Marta Moreta: "No. Jordi Munell: "Yes. Esther Niubó : « No. Óscar Ordeig: "No. Jordi Orobig: "Yes. Montserrat Palau: "Yes. Marta Pascal: "Yes. Ferran Pedret: "No. Carles Puigdemont: "Yes. Eulàlia Reguant: "Yes. Eduardo Reyes: "Yes. Marta Ribas: "No. Javier Rivas: "No. David Rodríguez: "Yes. Santi Rodríguez: "No. Meritxell Reigned: "Yes. Lorena Roldán: "No. Alice Romero : « No. Raül Romeva: "Yes. Marta Rovira: "Yes. Maria Dolors Rovirola: "Yes. Josep Rull: "Yes. Sergi Sabrià: "Yes. Sergi Saladié: "Yes. Benet Salellas: "Yes. Josep Lluís Salvadó : « Yes. Fernando Sánchez: "No. Alfonso Sánchez: "No. Carlos Sánchez: "No. Marc Sanglas: "Yes. Sergio Sanz: "No. Jordi-Miquel Sendra: "Yes. Maria Senserrich: "Yes. Gabriela Serra : « Abstention. Sonia Sierra: "No. Bernat Sole: "Yes. Jorge Soler: "No. Marc Solsona: "Yes. Jordi Terrades: "No. Roger Torrent: "Yes. Jordi Turull: "Yes. Ramon Usall: "Yes. Elisabeth Valencia: "No. Teresa Vallverdú: "Yes. Alba Vergés: "Yes. Marc Vidal: "No. Laura Vílchez: "No. Montserrat Vilella: "Yes. Alberto Villagrasa: "No. Marisa Xandri: "No. Jessica Albiach: "No. Matías Alonso : « No. Oriol Amat: "Yes. Oriol Amorós: "Yes. Pere Aragonès: "Yes. Inés Arrimadas : « No. Antonio Balasch : « Yes. Antonio Baños : « Yes. Pain Bassa: "Yes. Albert Batalla: "Yes. Albert Batet: "Yes. Germà Bel: "Yes. Susana Beltrán : « No. David Bonvehí: "Yes. Albert Botran: "Yes. Marina Bravo: "No. Rafel Bruguera: "No. Josep Manel Busqueta : « Abstention. Montserrat Candini: "Yes. Carlos Carrizosa: "No. Muriel Casals: "Yes. Joan Ramon Casals: "Yes. Magda Casamitjana: "Yes. Jean Castel Sucarrat: "No. Antoni Castellà : « Yes. Carmina Castellví : « Yes. Carles Castillo : « No. Anna Caula: "Yes. Violant Cervera: "Yes. Ferran Civit: "Yes. Antoni Comín : « Yes. Joan Coscubala: "No. Jordi Cuminal: "Yes. Julià de Jòdar: "Yes. Naomi de la Calle: "No. Fernando de Páramo : « No. Germà Gordó : « Yes. Irene Rigau: "Yes. Neus Munté: "Yes. Artur Mas : « Yes. Ramona Barrufet: "Yes. Joan Josep Nuet: "No. David Pérez: "No. Anna Simó : « Yes. José María Espejo: "No. Lluís Corominas : « Yes. Carme Forcadell: "Yes. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.36.0	The result of the vote was the following: 70, yes; 63, no, and 2 abstentions. As the very honorable Mr Carles Puigdemont and Mr Casamajó, in this vote, obtained 70 votes in favour, which means the absolute majority established by Article 4.3 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, remains invested President of the Generality. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] The investiture will be communicated to his majesty the king, because the president of the Generality. [[Some shiulets.]] The President of the Generality who has been invested wants to go to the chamber? [[Pause.]] Okay. The President of the Generalitat (Carles Puigdemont and Casamajó ) Well, just a few words, very briefly, with no political content, just to thank all the people who voted for the investiture. Also thank the people who didn't vote for it, their effort to try to convince the people of yes, who didn't have any consequences. Give thanks to all spokespersons from all parliamentary groups. Give thanks once more to the President But, all the people who have cost him these days. Give thanks to my family, to my wife, who is here, and to the people who are following me from home; to my companions who have wanted to accompany me, friends of the AMI, companies of Girona... to all of you, thank you very much. I will repeat to you what I have already said in private to some of you: I will try to be worthy of your expectations and your hopes. Thank you very much. Dream Catalonia free! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-01-10-0601.37.0	One moment... Finally, we ask them to sing the national anthem of Catalonia. [[The chamber, dempeus, sings Els Segadors. Greetings.]] The session's up.
