ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.1.0	The session begins. The list of questions to answer in the Ple is enclosed in the folder. In accordance with Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning as the first item on the agenda. Thus, I remember the delegation of vote which, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, made the deputies Alicia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and Ángels Martínez, of the Catalan Parliamentary Group Yes that is Pot. They have delegated their vote to the spokesman of their parliamentary group, Mrs Eva Granados and Mr Joan Coscubiela. I must also inform you that the Government, in accordance with Article 81.3 of the Rules of Procedure, has called for the alteration of the agenda in such a way that point 10, concerning the inquiry to the Government on the ruling of the Constitutional Court that annuls the decree of poor energy and on the deployment of the Law 24/2015, of urgent measures to address the emergence in the field of housing and poor energy, can be substantiated after point 8. If there is no objection, we will substantiate point 10 between points 8 and 9. Can this change in the order of the day be approved by consent? [[Pause.]] Therefore, the order of the day is changed in this sense. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before starting the session, I must inform you that on the 14th of April, unfortunately, a woman died as a result of male violence in the municipality of Sant Feliu de Llobregat. According to the official data of the Department of Interior and the Catalan Institute of Donations, it is about the second death victim during this year in Catalonia. The Parliament of Catalonia regrets and condemns this crime and expresses the most sincere condolences to its relatives. So, I repeat Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women. [[Ask the Government about the case of Ester Quintana]] [[310-00046/11]] The first point of the order of the day is: ask the government. The first question is about the case of Ester Quintana. Asks the question Mrs. Mireia Vehí, of the Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.2.0	Good morning, MPs and MPs, President, Mr. Counsellor... This week is celebrating the trial for the case of Ester Quintana, who lost an eye in the mark of a general vacancy, for the performance of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, and the trial is celebrated to clarify the facts and to be able to notify the material authors of the case. Even the repeated refusal of Mr. Felipe Puig when he was a counselor, Mr. Manel Prat, of recognition of the authorship by the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, the council has compensated Ms. Quintana, and has assumed, therefore, the authorship of the facts by part of the body, and, moreover, the court also proves that there is more than enough evidence to end up concluding that the thing was the author of the facts. In Catalonia, in the last five years, there have been seven victims for rubber balls, and the conclusions of the study committee on public order and anti-slavery material banned, for one band... the prohibition of the use of rubber balls and for another, the retroactive compensation of victims. We would like to know, Mr. Counsellor, when the council will make this compensation effective, because, for the time being, these seven victims identified, have only been compensated by two: Mrs. Quintana and Mr. Nicola Tano. Thank you. [[The president gives the words to Jordi Jané i Guasch, Councillor of the Interior.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.3.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, I will make an initial point because, of the information we have – and I do so in your Parliament – these days are unfortunately celebrating a trial for one person – in this case, Mrs Quintana – who suffered a major injury, who lost an eye. And, therefore, I personally did it, I do it publicly, before Parliament on behalf of the whole government: to us, the one who went through it, we ask... – I did it privately, I apologize, I do it publicly–, we apologize for everything that makes me think..., there is an open court, but it still makes me think that the injury that Mrs. Quintana suffered was at the mark of a police action ordered by the respective commands, and they also have to allow me one thing: I have full conviction that, if it was at the mark of a police action, I am convinced that no agent, no member of the body, wanted to cause that evil, that too. As I admit, there must be a pocket in these cases, of proximity and compensation, obviously. We have to... when it's legally possible, we have to pay compensation. And you asked me, Mrs Vehi... we've already compensated two people and the secretary general of the department and the legal teams of the department are reviewing case by case to see when we can compensate and do so, knowing that never a compensation can end up covering the evil that a person has suffered when he or she finds himself or herself with an episode of these, that all of us really, therefore, know hard when he or she passes. [[The president gives the word to Mireia Vehi and Cantenys.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.4.0	Thank you, Counselor, let's hope so. The organized people, the people who participate in mobilizations for social rights and for human rights in the streets, we have experienced various situations of violent actions by the riot brigade. In these types of events, for a very little..., it is to say, for a little bit that an agent of this anti-disturbing brigade denounced to the council a minimum scratch or a minimum amount of time in these actions, and it is to be said that with the violence that unravels these same acts, a scratch is the least they can have, but this is a separate issue..., for a minimum injury that I denounce any agent of the anti-disturbing brigade, the Generality acts as a particular accusation. Notwithstanding this, it is not so when it is the citizenry that I answer these attacks, such as the case of Mrs. Esther Quintana, for example, who lost an eye, and that Mrs. Esther Quintana has had to make an authentic, say, mass of many pants to be able to carry the agents and the councillor, as the latter, before a trial.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.5.0	Madam Member of Parliament, you've run out of time... [[The president withdrew the use of the microphone to the deputy and she continued to speak for a few moments.]] I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.6.0	Madam MP, I want to defend the Cos of the Squadron Mosses, his professionalism, his proximity. There are so many citizens that every day they explain to us the actions of the Mosso, proper, professional, effective and, obviously, there are times when to guarantee public order, so there can be a legitimate use of force. But you think we're always trying to mediate before, we're always trying to mediate before. And, therefore, allow me, now that there is an open court, to have confidence in the administration of justice and with the independence of the judiciary, but I have confidence, and much, in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.7.0	Counselor, you've run out of time. [[Ask the Government about Catalan Sanitation]] [[310-00053/11]] Second question..., on the second question to the Government on Catalan sanitation, asks the question Mr Jorge Soler, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.8.0	Good morning, President. MPs, MPs, Councillor Comín, I condemn attacks on public professionals. I don't think the job exercise should ever be under duress, threats, verbal or physical attacks of any kind. Last week we found out that a governor of Barcelona had tried to have a doctor modify the notice to the judge that he had made to a patient, demanding that you write what he considered to be on the report. In short, an example of coercing a worker in the exercise of his work. We have a great opportunity: to condemn here, in this solemn institution, in this Parliament, threats and attacks on public workers, without any kind of threat. Clearly, Counselor, do you condemn me? Can you make a clear condemnation message respecting any cases of rape and specifically against the reprehensible conduct of the governor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.9.0	There's a word from Salut's advisor, Mr. Antoni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.10.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, you wrote to me... you announced to me that you would ask me a question about Catalan sanitation. And then, contrary to what parliamentary uses are, you ask me a question about a very specific case that has been known on the part of the media and, in keeping with parliamentary uses – I have now done the mandatory consultation at the Bureau of the Parliament – I could tell you that I do not answer it, because the rules of the game of this return are not these. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If you want me to position you on a specific issue..., imagine that I need concrete data to build my answer. It would be very likely that, in this case, I need detailed information..., I can't keep all the detailed information – I don't know if there's any in this country that can do it, I'm sure –, my head assures you that I can't keep all the detailed information about all the issues that have gone to Catalan sanitation so that the government can respond to you with the rigour that deserves a response with such serious, as important a deal as this. So I might not be answering your question right now and we'll be in jail, but I won't. I will have the deference – the deference – to answer it, and the answer is very simple, Mr. MP: the professionals of Catalan sanitation, all of them, all of them have the support of the counselor because they can exercise their work according to their rights and according to all the regulations that guarantee that they can exercise their work in the conditions they deserve, both from the point of view of safety and from the point of view of the clinic, as from the point of view of professional ethics, there is no standard, no one of which protects – and there are many and many different – the exercises of the professionals of Catalan sanitation, that is not protected by the council. Thank you, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.11.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.12.0	Thank you. Counselor Comín, it is necessary to condemn all cases of violence against public workers. We cannot create any doubt as to the fact that this Parliament, this solemn institution and these Members always collect and collect the dignity of the workers, without any type of crack. So much for the profession: health workers, teachers, prison officers, police officers or those who manage the quae de l'atur..., all workers must feel secure and protected by the Generality. Therefore, they ask him for an absolute conviction, because violence is not justifiable under the circumstances. Threats are never tolerable in the face of circumstances, they are not eligible for the arguments from which the professional's pocket is diminished in the face of circumstances, and therefore it is important that you condemn it. And, in addition, he has to take all the steps at the government's mouth to protect the workers, because it is clear that there is no type of slot in his defense. Councillor Comín, President of Parliament, Honourable President, I condemn attacks on public professionals; we do not. Guaranteeing that professionalism does not capitulate to coercion, threats and intimidation, and, if the deputy or deputy here wants to sympathize with the sentence, he can simply express it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.13.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.14.0	Mr. Deputy, I am convinced that you have the fate that the general principle you have proclaimed here is shared by the one hundred and thirty-five deputies of this chamber. All the deputies of this chamber, without exception – I am convinced that all of them – whatever their political colour is, condemn the attacks on the public professionals, they are already about salvation, education, whatever it is... Therefore, effectively, it condemns shared by all the deputies of this chamber – and I understand that all the people who are listening to us – to attacks, as you have said, on public professionals. And I agree with what I said: we will not only gather the professionals, we will guarantee the compliment of the laws that protect them, we will not only guarantee it, we have been doing it for..., the Catalan public institutions have been doing it for thirty-five years.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.15.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.16.0	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.17.0	Third question to the Government, on fire prevention. [[Ask the Government about fire prevention]] [[310-00048/11]] The question is posed by Mr Carles Castillo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.18.0	Thank you, President, good morning. Good morning, fellow Members; good morning, Councillor Jané, my question is: in a summer that is especially expected dry and warm, what is the government's intention and forecast with the bombing summer campaign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.19.0	Answer the Councillor d'Interior, Mr.Jordi Jané.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.20.0	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, honourable Member, for your question, because it allows the Government to put in value what the Government of Catalonia approved yesterday itself, which is the specific forest plan for this summer. We will advance the campaign, we will allocate 861 to strengthen the fire parks, because, effectively, you said, we are ahead of a forecast especially..., the forecast that it is done for the May and June is a forecast that we will have even very warm and, therefore, is a difficult ingredient for the prevention of fires, and that is why we strengthen ourselves. Yesterday we did it like the government, and, moreover, let me tell you that, like the Department of Interior and the government, we are also in a strategic global plane with five axes to drive a situation in which there is the Bomber Cos and the bomber parks, which we do not like – that we do not like –, that we pose there, and that is why, there is also a multi-annual plane that we have already started to implement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.21.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.22.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I'm just a little quieter. As I have once said to you, Mr. Jané, I suspect you and I see you gain from working and volunteering for a dialogue; but, unfortunately, that is not enough. Take you, Mr. Jané, a department with a situation, let's say, of the least god, and you have to come to zero to start bringing you to the situation that deserves a country like which some say they want to build. And we're worried about this summer campaign, Counselor. We have an obvious lack of firefighters; it's a fact that's already recognized for all the parts involved. The professional firefighters there, now and until they enter others, will endure the lack of professional companies, with a decree, certainly, made to the size of the government and need to realize many extra hours to cover the minimums of back guarding. As you may know, the coverage of the minimums of return to the fire department is currently generating many foreign hours of work. I would like to remind him, moreover, that by decree this government forced them to increase their working hours by a hundred and two hours on the premise that the Bomber Cos is an essential service – which is, of course – and on the recognition that, indeed, there are no firefighters. Mr. Counselor, with the significant expansion of the working hours of firefighters, the personal overload of external hours that are making many of them, the expansion of specific guards in the summer–motive of the decree– and valuing the average age, also, of many of them, makes people think that they may be taking unnecessary risks. Do you think that if you are given a simultaneous service, and taking into account what I have already commented on, you assume that this is – and even more so – the bombers can be at risk for them and other people? Someone from the Bomber Cos makes a forecast of risks on the job that the firefighters are doing today, taking into account this excess of hours that they do more than the rest of the staff of the Administration; also taking into account the continuing complaint that the firefighters' unions are doing and adding to their significant lack of equipment or work tools? Only, as an example, will I tell you: asking for a rerun of forest boats can cost three_months; asking for a day EPI pant can cost six_months. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.23.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.24.0	Mr. Congressman, you make a series of demands shared by the government. He shares them because I've already told him that we don't like the situation where the Bomber Cos is found, and we pose. How do we pose? I could just give him a good word answer. We've already called Bomber Oppositions– Functional Bomber Oppositions–, 152 places. The last time they had been summoned was the year 2009, and this year they have been summoned. We'll call 350 places of volunteer firefighters before the summer – and we'll do it. He was now explaining 861 to us for this summer's forest campaign, that the half a day of dedication will go from 77 to 92. And you were also talking to me about lacks in the costumes, in equipment... we're sure and we're already hearing these lacks, and we're also supposed to have them. And so, it's the government's intention to give it an answer, because we can't have the bomber parks and the Bomber Cos in the situation they're in right now. And, therefore, with the Government, not only words, but with facts we want to prove that this will be so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.25.0	Fourth question to the Government, about poor energy. [[Ask the Government about energy poverty]] [[310-00049/11]] The question is posed by Mr Jordi Terrades of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.26.0	Thank you, President. Madam Counselor, we all know that in this context of economic crisis that the country has experienced, inequalities have increased scandalously. The poverty has increased, the gap between the rich and the poor has also increased, it is bigger. Also the poor energy has emerged in a very obvious way: an 11_percent of the Catalan families– that is to say, about three-hundred_thousand families– states that they cannot keep their habitat at adequate temperature in winter, and in summer the snows also have to work. The Parliament of Catalonia has made the effort of consensus, the majority of political formations, to legislate in order to guarantee rights to persons at risk of vulnerability and social exclusion. We also need to recognize the role that the citizens' plataforms and the country's assemblies have played all this time. Madam Counselor, we did not share that the Government of the State, presided over by Mr. Mariano Rajoy, submitted to the Constitutional Court an appeal of unconstitutionality in accordance with Decree 6/2013. and also the modification of the Consumer Code that protected consumers prior to the delivery of basic and energy services. The argument of competitive defence, from our point of view, leaves a great social insensitivity and a defense of the interests of energy companies. We believe that it is necessary to reaffirm the competences that the State gives us in the field of social protection. We therefore reject the resources submitted. Here we approved another law, Law 24/2015, which is a law in force, has been in force for nine months. We'll ask you a series of questions, Madam Counselor, that we hope you have clear answers. After nine months, do they already have the rules to allow the development of this law? Can he approve in a week or fifteen days? Have they agreed with the management companies advanced? When do they think they're doing public? Can you publicize the bilateral commission's negotiations with the State with respect to this law that you spoke to before? How do you intend to articulate the mechanisms that guarantee that the 10_million euros that this chamber has said would target poor energy reach us vulnerable consumers? Because I remind you that last year we only spent a five-part, approximately 1,000,000 euros on it, and that's not because of the state's curses, but because of the government's inefficiency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.27.0	Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.28.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Member, this is a matter in which this chamber held unanimous; unanimous to vote on Law 24/2015 and, therefore, to ensure that families in a vulnerable situation would have covered all that are sub-administrations, therefore, basic, and therefore, in this sense, of the light, water and gas. And it is in this sense that the Government has acted in a decisive way – in a decisive way – because, if it is true that they did not use the conjunction of the 5_millions, it is also true that all the requests which, in this sense, the Government has received have been answered, and therefore more than thirty-three thousand requests have been answered and therefore we have given an answer. In this very sense, I am reassured that the Government is acting, and therefore before the hundred complaints of basic sub-administration sizes we have made a strong response. Therefore, we are in these moments with 26 sanctioning procedures and 70 are in processing, therefore, in the case of the Catalan Consumer Agency. On the other hand, the government, as is logical, has committed itself – and there was an agreement in that sense yesterday – in the fact that what the government's attitude towards the law is that at this point in time for vulnerable families, the government will develop its own mechanisms through legislation, through different government agreements, to give this answer. Therefore, there will be, respecting the resources that you mentioned, a new call to give answers to the families that so ask and so require, and therefore these moneys will be used precisely in this matter. In this very sense, we have agreed to donate, I insist, all legislative measures. And, in accordance with the rules, I did not regret that in the matter of these rules we will keep in force, but I also made it clear that the rules did not prevent us from acting to avoid the heights in the families that are in a situation of vulnerability. Therefore, in this sense..., and what is most relevant is that, whatever happens with the Constitutional Court, this Government has the firm commitment, as has also been done by the joints, certainly, to give response to vulnerable families and to avoid, in any case, that no one should suffer, when it is for a matter of vulnerability, a kind in which is the sub-administration of water, light or gas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.29.0	Five questions to the Government, about its advertising activity. [[Ask the Government about its advertising activity]] [[310-00054/11]] The question is posed by Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.30.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, today we feel the President of the General as he solemnly announced the will of this Government to reverse the details, but he gives us the impression that this will not be in all spheres, because there have been some in which there is no need to reverse at these times what they have already done, because they have done so in previous exercises. Miri, concretely, the year 2010 there was a volume of inversion in institutional advertising of the order of 20_million euros, while 2011 and 2012 dropped between 10 and 15_million euros; in change, 2013, 14 and 15 already increased by 20_million euros another time the institutional advertising, and in the four_months that we carry from year have already made commitments worth 16_million euros, right? Therefore, we see that these details, in this case, have already been reversed. We would like to know... – because in this expenditure we must add structural subsidies to the communication means of €7 million –, we would like to know, honourable Counsel, when the Government has predicted to make public, to five concrete communication means and for which imports are published all this institutional publicity.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.31.0	Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.32.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr Rodriguez, you, by asking this question, seek to make a headline, but this is a cheating and absolutely demagogic headline, on the line of what you have us used to. Let's mix it up, as much as you already know, that the generality's corporate advertising is governed by a strong agreement, which has as its aim to achieve in the best economic conditions possible the contracting of advertising space, to do it with the utmost agility, and therefore to achieve a better service with the different media. Therefore, it is a matter of buying advertising space. We do not sweep it with subsidies to the communication media, which has nothing to see; it is not about the financing of the media. And why do we do that? Why does the Government of the Generality do that? So, in the same way that all governments do, so does the State Government, to be able to spread those institutional and public campaigns that are necessary. And as we do, how does the government of the generality do it? So, in the same way as the Government of the State does: by using middle-class power stations, which are approved; by using a public competition, quantitative and qualitative criteria are taken into account, therefore, completely professional criteria, which are the usual ones in these types of advertising actions. A March agreement, two years long, which has not increased – which has not increased – the contribution, the reversal of the Government of the Generality, but is maintained in the same proportion as in the previous March agreement. This has not been the case at the level of the Government of the State, where they have been brought in by institutional publicity, and they have increased, and not so much, in the past few years. And, certainly – certainly – some contracts that are perfectly published and can be consulted at the public contract portal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.33.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.34.0	Thank you, President. Allow 'un primo consell: if you want to oppose another government that is not here, I suggest that you are present at some elections that may be convoked accordingly. First question. Second question: With regard to the Mark Agreement, I did not ask him about this Mark Agreement. We already know that they have a €36 million mark agreement during two exercises. I'm talking about awards that have already been made during the first four months of the exercise. But, honourable Counselor, I am more concerned about one other thing: that you have sent me to the portal of transparency. I will read it, read it, Article 11.1 of the Transparency Law, which obliges the Government to publicize the cost of institutional advertising campaigns, disaggregating the different concepts of the campaign and the import contracted at each communication medium. And this is an obligation of the government on July 1, 2015 and that you, at this hour, are not fulfilling. Twenty-five or 30_million years of institutional advertising and media grants are a lot of resources, honourable Counselor. They could open the forty-seven primary care centres that have been shut down, build eight schools and reduce the thousand barracks, or even solve the problem of energy poverty for twenty years. But, of course, they'd have another problem, which is that of the poor national expert, and this one, for you, surely...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.35.0	Mr. Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.36.0	...is unbearable. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.37.0	Answer the councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.38.0	President... You do not listen or do not want to hear: I did not speak of the portal of transparency, but of the public contract. There you are, on time, collecting all these contracts. I should have dropped the shame of talking about poor energy, precisely, in a week where even all of Europe has stirred them up. [[Greetings.]] I return to the origin of the question: institutional publicity to inform the citizenry of questions so little suspected of not affecting people such as the prevention of fires, the risks of work, school pre-registration or the struggle against male violence. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.39.0	Sisena asks the Government about the impact of occupational diseases on the public health system. [[Ask the Government about the impact of occupational diseases on the public health system]] [[310-00047/11]] The question is posed by Ms Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.40.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, this week there was a public report from the Workers' Commissions to Catalonia on the underreporting of occupational diseases. With data from the past year, the report shows that 76_percent of cases of professional malalty– or so, malalties caused by work– are not recognized as such, so they are treated as common malalities. This has an impact on the people affected because, obviously, it is difficult for them to change the conditions that have caused this disease. This also makes it much harder for preventive strategies to be applied to avoid more cases of disease, but there are also important economic consequences. And I asked you why there is one of these economic data: to treat this 76_percent of cases of professional malalty as common malalty has a health cost for public arches of 2,000_million euros– 2,000_million euros–, that the past year should have paid for the labor exchanges and that it paid for public health; public health that the past year had a consolidated assumption of 9,200_million dollars. Counselor, this year we will continue to target a 21.7_percent of the public health assumption to cost what should be paying the mutuals while they are redistributing resources to CAP and hospitals, or do they think they will solve it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.41.0	Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.42.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, I really appreciate that you are focusing on this issue, because I think it is a very important issue. You have already done so, if you remember, a Member of your parliamentary group, in my appearance at the Health Committee, and at that time I was pleased to have the issue of occupational health on the table, because, indeed, it is a very worrying issue. And, as I can imagine, with the presuppositional impact that it has, who is most concerned – I don't know if who else, but I'm as concerned as I am – it's me. It's a problem that gets reddened many years ago – many years ago. What happens is that with the evolution of the labor market during the years of the crisis, this problem has probably increased even more, because it is more precarious to work, more risks to work, if there are no good prevention strategies. And there will be no good prevention strategies, as you very well explain, while mutuals do not have to bear the costs of these work-related diseases. Therefore, it has been created, the last years, effectively, a path of devilish circle, in this sense. The data at the disposal of the department... – the contrasts only because they are very similar, but they are not identical to the report of the Workers Commissions –, to us we know that the underreporting is 70_per_cent, meaning that they are only declared, but it is a very approximate xifra, a 30_per_cent of the pathologies. We understand that the year 2014 the primary care was suspended diagnostically on three_ thousand cases, which were communicated to the labor health units, but that, however, in the end, between 10 and 15_percent of the pathology that is attended to the primary care if it is probably of labor origin. Count and debate, that's what you say: 2,000_million costs for the public record. And also a reduction in benefits for the worker, who, if he is not recognized as a work-related illness, in many cases loses compensation to which he would be entitled; increasing lists for the national health system, etc. What do we do? So, in the strategic framework of occupational safety, huh? , of which the third Pla de govern de sécurité et salute travail 2015-2020, there is a whole policy to ensure detection, improve detection. I told him that it's a problem that has been on the rise for many years, so the change will not be one day for another; but it's about involving hospitals and primary care in the detection of these occupational diseases and speeding up the recognition circuit on the part of the National Institute of Social Security. Therefore, there is already at this time, a strategic framework of occupational safety facing this challenge. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.43.0	I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.44.0	Thank you, President. Well, I'm glad we share the diagnosis and that they want to put in a solution, too. Allow me, however, to kill an element: there has been this for many years, but neither is there a heaven. There is legislation that needs to be corrected, but there are also measures that with this same legislation... other autonomous communities are due in term and are allowing that there is not so much underdetection of work-related illnesses, for example. We also had and have eliminated Catalonia: Instruction 1/2007 which activated an internal system of suspension of professional malalty and which allowed to restitute poorly catalogued processes from the suspension of primary care professionals, its predecessor carried it unilaterally. [[Someone's applauding.]] We have therefore loaded political tools that within the same legal framework allow us to fight against this underdotation. Activin, please, counselor, we alarm systems from the primary attention, power the units of occupational safety and put on, from one punch to another, to the malfunction of the ICAM. They do something to reduce this barbarity; they act or, counselor, will not be credible when they come to tell us that there is no presupposition to strengthen the primary...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.45.0	Congresswoman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.46.0	...to re-open the operating room, when you have to pay... [[The president withdrew the microphone's use from the speaker, and she continued to speak for a few moments. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.47.0	Seven questions to the Government on actions to improve the situation of bluefin fish fishing. [[Ask the Government about actions to improve the situation of bluefin fish fishing]] [[310-00050/11]] The question is posed by Mr Jordi Sendra, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.48.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, as you well know, bluefish fishers on the Mediterranean coast, and especially from the Gulf of Sant Jordi and the Ametlla de Mar – the Cala – to Tarragona, have long lived in a situation that worsened a year later. The capture of sardine and seitó, prized fish and recognizable for their values of gastronomic quality and positive action in health, has decreased radically in this territory and has led to the reduction of the fishing fleet, which runs the risk of total disappearance. Today, we can talk about two-hundred families who live from this fishing in the Tarragona area and who have to go through monthly payments of four-hundred euros, which makes survival very difficult for them. As I was saying, this problem also affects the Mediterranean coast. Recent scientific studies due to the end of Lleó golf for French researchers point to environmental factors that would affect fish biology, notably in its growth. These fishermen ask for a study similar to the tarragon coast that can determine the reasons for this drastic bluefish reduction. At the same time, they also ask for help to be made to see that they are forced to do so a year later, so that they can have access to economic help to cope with this situation that is desperate today. They have asked me, too, to make him arrive their wish that I can visit them well soon so that I can share this situation with you. I was also satisfied with the work done by the Director General of Fisheries, Mr Sergi Tudela. Despite the fact that the management of this problem, in being fishing in external waters, is entirely within the competence of the Government of the Spanish State, has the Government of the Generalitat carried out action aimed at improving this situation or, if not, mitigating its effects in the affected area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.49.0	Reply to Mrs Meritxell Serret, Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.50.0	Thank you, President. For three months now, we have been working intensively on this subject since the Council, but above all, the Directorate-General for Fisheries and Maritime Affairs, and especially Mr Sergi Tudela. We have held meetings– four meetings–, with the sector of the area; with, at last, trade union representatives; at last, there has come the Department of Work, government delegate..., and we have implemented specific follow-up measures to families affected by this severe crisis. We did... didn't we? We have organized this day, which we welcome, to expose the study of the French Ifremer, and which brought us many ideas, and we have made a continuous flow of management and various contacts and on a continuous basis with the Social Institute of the Navy and with the same General Secretary of Fisheries of the Ministry. And then it was the 6th of April, and there were the proposals that he made and that during all this time he was working the general direction and in Sergi Tudela..., we made some commitments that we have made in those last hours. On the one hand, we take the study forward to get to know well what is going on with the bluefish population on our Catalan coast, through the Institute... – as I say? – Spanish Institute of Oceanography. Let's go ahead, too, with a substantial increase in help to see them, in the least of thirty days, above all thinking that the workers and sailors do not have to exhaust the weather during these stages. And then, also with an explicit support to a pilot plan to diversify bass fishing. This is an initiative I want to point out that it comes from our Directorate General and that from the ministry it will be supported. Certainly, a whole lot of work that isn't concrete there..., a meeting, one day occasionally, but it's the fruit of an intense three-month job. At the same time, we are also bringing forward with the sector a plan to improve the competitiveness of the light sector, and we are also making contact with the Basque Government and its technology centre for the transfer of technology in the fishing industry. We are also concrete, as we would invest the FEMP funds; we are promoting producer organisations and, above all, the strategy of valorization and marketing of fisheries as a proximity product. And that's all we do with an honest, loyal job, facing the sector, facing the government and facing the whole country for the future of fishing, isn't it? , of our fishing fleet and for the future of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.51.0	Vuitena asks the Government about the assessment in teaching. [[Ask the Government about the assessment in teaching]] [[310-00051/11]] The question is posed by Ms. Ramona Barrufet, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.52.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. Honourable Councillor for Education, this week the evaluation tests have begun on the third of primary school, some tests carried out for the Higher Evaluation Council of Catalonia that aim to evaluate the same system and that, therefore, we understand that they are useful both for the same students and to have an understanding of the current situation of the first cycle of primary education. At the same time, last week, we were familiar with the visit you had to Madrid with the Minister of Education, in which the discrepancy in Catalonia was made clear with regard to the conjunction of LOMCE and, in concrete terms, with the tests of primary and secondary assessment, which we believe that the concept ‘revalidated is completely unacceptable and contrary to the assessment determined to the Law of Education of Catalonia, and contrary to our competitions. In the same vein, the Constitutional Court allowed the appeal lodged by the Generality in relation to the primary assessment provided for in the Organic Law to be brought before it. On the other hand, part of the public opinion is appalled by our assessment evidence. We believe that there is little favor being given to the educational community as a whole in trying to assimilate our educational model of progress within the LEC with the regression and interventionist model determined by LOMCE. We believe that this evidence will help improve fairness in the same system, which is one of its foundational pillars. We would like to know, counsel, the value of the usefulness of this evidence and what was transferred to the minister in relation to the evidence provided by LOMCE. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.53.0	Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.54.0	Thank you, President. Madam MP, I'll start with the second. To the minister, what we have translated is that Catalonia will not introduce the forecasts of the LOMCE, but will keep the forecasts that there is to our law of education. And respect the second, it is that the difference between the assessment proposed by LOMCE and the evaluation proposed by the LEC, and also before, because Catalonia is a fan of proof since the year 2001, is enormous: LOMCE, the conception it makes about the evaluation is a conception to condition, as you said, the future of the student, when in the LEC the evaluation is what it wants to improve the system and facilitate learning tools for our students. The LOMCE wants to improve the system in a deceptive way: I take the students who do not serve, the apart, I make them make another itinerary, therefore, sure that they improve the results immediately. And besides, they want to condition a title of an education that is mandatory to a revamp. This is unthinkable in a country that wants to progress to an educational level. Because, above all, it does not take into account all the continuous evaluation that our centres make at the length of compulsory schooling. And, besides, it provokes the contempt of professional training in those two itineraries that they intend to implant of the academic and the applied. As you said, we have an appeal that has been accepted by the Constitutional Court, because we are sure, we are convinced that the forecasts made by the royal decree are unconstitutional; among others, because it allows the triage of language to the pair – this will be an element that we do not see that we will consider, because what you have not heard is that there is a linguistic project of the center and that at the time of examining who needs to be sorted following the pairs – and, moreover, because we do not agree with all the contents fixed there. The LEC that they claim is that the evaluation is based on the autonomy of the centre and the educational project of the centre, and the LEC that they claim that the evaluation is used to guide and improve educational policies. Since 2012, for example, we've been doing a program of impulses to read, seeing that one of the basic skills that is less associated with reading and writing was that of reading and writing; therefore, twenty thousand teachers have already participated. From here, we have also done the « Now I write, where also six thousand teachers participate. Therefore, we have to tell you that in the evaluation that Catalonia will not see any results – since the year 2000 that we are evaluating and has never seen any results –, that the evaluation in Catalonia takes into account the context, which is not taken into account by LOMCE – we have to take into account that all the centres are not the same. And, above all, what we will not allow under any concept is that the LOMCE conditions the educational policies of this country, which we carry successfully in the last few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.55.0	Ninth question to the Government, on the conclusions of the Councillor of Salut in relation to the royal decree on infirmary. [[Ask the Government about the conclusions of the Councillor of Salut in relation to the royal decree on infirmary]] [[310-00052/11]] The question is posed by Ms. Assumption Laïlla, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.56.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, for the Member speaking to him, this issue – and I suppose he will understand very well – is a deja-vu. Almost one year ago, an interterritorial council was also held in Madrid, where one of the points of the order of the day, precisely, was the prescription of infirmary; an issue in which, even there, not to reach a consensus amplifiedly majority with the sector, it did lay the basis for a consensus at the time to draw up a regulation that regulated the prescription inferrere, especially the autonomous one, in all the autonomous communities of the Spanish State. In July, his predecessor to the office made a pact with the nursing sector here in Catalonia, so precisely to delve into this topic and regular, as was the precept, also from Catalonia, so this prescription. A October Council of Ministers approved a text that was supposed to be the one emanating from the agreement of the March 2015 Interterritorial Council, in which what was important was radically different from what had been agreed. And, moreover, this agreement was not published, and therefore publicly accepted, until the 23rd of September of last year, so with a government in function of the People's Party in the Spanish State, and, moreover, in full holiday period of the Nadal, which further complicated the implementation of this royal decree. You, at the entrance to the Government, took this issue as a priority and, working together with the sector, assumed the manifesto that the sector had brought to you. Among the things I asked for was that I demanded the repeal of this royal decree and that you convene an interterritorial council to renew this consensus, and, at times, obviously, that they lead, precisely, a Catalan regulation to give coverage to the infirmaries in their exercise of competitions. Because I want to remember that precisely with the autonomous prescription of nursing and also with the collaboration, what is done is to give value and value the model of health care in our country, which lies in this consensus among the professionals of health, among the nurses, among the doctors, among the psychologists, social workers, helpers, etc., in order to give a good health care, which I would like to remember a year ago, in the questions of satisfaction which have been highly valued. Therefore, counselor – that's why I said the déjà-vu – last week he again held an interterritorial council, and I would like to know, and to our parliamentary group, what is his position with respect to this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.57.0	Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.58.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, as you know, this interterritorial council was long awaited by the council – we could not summon it, but we did demand it. Finally, on the contrary, the Ministry of Health included in the order of the council's day a point of information on the royal decree, and I did what I had undertaken to do before the collection of nurses and nurses, which is to speak with exactly the same consistency as I spoke with before the communication media and exactly the same consistency with what I spoke to the Health Commission about this issue. So, I started by explaining to the minister that I felt that what I had done was exactly irresponsible. By order of protocol, Catalonia was one of the first autonomous communities, the second, to intervene; so this word sounded, yes, it resonated in the council room, and we exposed it with all detail that it seemed to us to be irresponsible for the procedure – you explained it –: a text is not published three days after elections, when the government is in operation, two days before Nadal; it does not alter a text agreed with an interterritorial council..., we could extend over the process. We explained to him that it seemed irresponsible to us the contents, and the consequences are in sight. We have made it clear, and in this, there has been a unanimous diagnosis on the part of all the autonomous communities, that that paragraph of the Royal Decree, the second paragraph of Article 3.2, has not only left the nurses in a situation of legal insecurity that, as we have said so many times, can assume a situation of clinical insecurity for the patient, and, if it has not, it is for the professional commitment of the nurses that they are acting, and also the legal uncertainty, with great responsibility, but the risk has caused it by the Royal Decree, but it has caused another risk as important as this, that it is a conflict between the medical professions, that it has not occurred because of the responsibility of the doctors and the nurses of our country and the government to avoid this conflict. I believe that all autonomous communities not governed by the People's Party gave support to this argumentary. We saw a government on the defensive, we saw a government pretty defeated. I believe that the government was not aware of the consequences, when they did what we did in the month of disembarkation, which would have their act. And, therefore, we demanded, knowing that a government in office cannot repeal a real decree, we demanded that the exit of that meeting be communicated that there was a political compromise to repeal the real decree so that the legal conditions permitted. As you know, the ministry did not accept this proposal. We will continue to demand the repeal of the royal decree at all times. Thank you, Congresswoman, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.59.0	Questions to the President of the Generality. [[Asks the President of the Generality about measures to address the judicial debates of the State, the strategies of the police bodies and the conducts of totalitarian and extremist ideology]] [[317-00033/11]] This question concerns the political and social situation. The question is posed by Mrs Anna Gabriel, of the Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.60.0	Yes; hello, good morning to you all. President, these last days, this week, in our hearing, there have been various disturbing news: some who want to see law suspensions on the part of the Constitutional Court, laws that do not seek to reverse the bases of capitalism, nor much less, but only to mitigate the wisdom of the poor and exclude them; threats of new law suspensions – and so today, we have not spoken – like 24/2015, which would seem to be concerned about this; maps of Spanish ministers setting up a policy response that will first strike the banks and not the people, but that now, Socialist Party, People's Party, would seem to be concerned about this; maps of Spanish ministers setting up a presupposition that will always be impossible to carry out; however, it would seem that it would be impossible for us to commit suicides, but it would seem that we would be concerned about this; maps of Spanish ministers setting up a policy response to the presuppositions that will always be impossible; and it would always be impossible to commit suicides, but it would be impossible to commit suicide. And, in our view, all these reports confirm to us that, before the judicial debates and the anti-democratic offensives, I should like to respond in a single way: with more democracy, with more rights and with fewer privileges for some. So, Mr. President, what is your understanding of the answer we have to give to these state judicial debates? What do you think is worth the persecution that police officers do to this organized reality? And how do you plan to cope with the need to eradicate the conditions that make possible the organization of groups of totalitarian and extremist ideology?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.61.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.62.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Commissioner, you asked a question that contains different lines of action. Some have to see what the position of the government is or what the government expects it to do in front of the action of the powers of the state in the democratic initiatives of parliament, government or assemblies. And the answer I can give you here is this one we're... the answer we're giving you right now. We stand there where we stand, we resort to the last stretch of all the legal possibilities to defend our position and we always guarantee, in the case of the most vulnerable people, that they will tend the services that a decent society must lend to those who have problems for energetic reasons or for reasons of habitation or for reasons of food. Another is police strategy, and another is the essential fight to eradicate xenophobic, intolerance, and social networks, which are lines of action that all have to see with the same cause, but which are questions that require different answers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.63.0	I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.64.0	Yeah. We, on the whole, think that these objectives are achieved only by working from the institutions, know that a good part is achieved on the street, with mobilizations, with popular organization. To Vic, a few days ago, it was the people who responded to the National Audience; dilluns, the people were concentrated before the PP's, and to Sabadell, who curbs the fascism is the people of the PAHC and the organized militancy; to many barrels are educators, teachers of barracks and nurses of the periphery who are contributing to bear dreams. We think it is essential to understand that only with more social rights can we guarantee democracy. We don't think it's possible to criminalize those that we're standing on the street facing fascism. We know that if we seem miserable, we will gather anger; anger, sometimes expressed with its worst face. And they think it's indispensable to reverse it permanently...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.65.0	Member of the Commission. - You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.66.0	...the basics of the system. I horse... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.67.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.68.0	Yes; thank you very much. I believe that Catalonia is an exemplary society for which it works in collaboration between institutions, from all levels, and civil society, and, especially, in those areas where a country plays it: coexistence, social cohesion, fighting against inequalities, defending the most disadvantaged, international solidarity; all this, that this Government is a spirit that has declared, however, that our assemblies are almost unanimously expressed and that organised civil society is also attacking – despite all this, this country has tensions, despite the fact that we have made locals – that both the Mosos, as well as the entities of the road, as other institutions are attacking – although all this has been done, this country is convivial with a huge country. And it's a way of dealing with these challenges, which, unfortunately, are not just from here, but that we see how all of Europe has a summary of the ideologies of outrage and intolerance, but that this country is especially strong because it doesn't only depend, happily, on the struggle that institutions do, but that it has a civil musculature that guarantees that in this country, whatever happens, there are questions that unite us and that, with its preservation, we are preserving a way of truly hearing the complete birth.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.69.0	Eleventh question to the President, on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality about his meeting with the President in office of the Government of the State, the willingness with which he attends it and the requests provided for in the Mark of the State and the Constitution]] [[317-00037/11]] The question is posed by Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.70.0	Mr President, between six hours you will have a meeting with the President of the Central Government, Mariano Rajoy. After four years of institutional blockage, I block for part of the institution of the Presidency of the Generality, we would like to know, we would like to know, we would like you to explain to us with what will you attend this meeting, with what will you face this meeting, and also to explain to us the approaches or requests that you will make, if these approaches or requests are within the competence of the State of Autonomy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.71.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.72.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, it's true, from here to six hours; the one that happens, that after hearing his companion Santi Rodriguez wishing the call for elections, I don't know when they'll be called and I don't know if it's worth it. But I let him say that I went there with all the soul that a President of the Generality must be, who belongs to an institution that has been objected, precisely, to permanent institutional blockade. And today, in the plenary, some examples have been cited that affect, above all, people, who explain that, from this blockade, we have not been victims. But, in any case, the will, I repeat, is a will, always from a reasonable scepticism, a cautious optimism and an institutional correction that this government has always had. Anyway, you know, I think, because we've explained enough, which are the pending assumptions between Catalonia and Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.73.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.74.0	Mr President, with sincerity, I believe that the request for the meeting has taken a great step. And I have to tell you that you have a great opportunity, don't let it go – don't let it go. Catalan politics needs, at these times, calm, measure, balance and sanity; we do not need it. And this late you have a great opportunity to send a great message; a great message on planting to President Rajoy better and more resources for Catalonia, because they can be assumed by the President of the Government. And here I must tell you, Mr Puigdemont, that you will have the support of the People's Party. If the requests you make to the President of the Government go in line to improve sanitation, to improve teaching, to improve the infrastructure for Catalonia, will have the support of the Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. Here we are, next to you. But we do ask you that the proposals can be debated, that you can raise from the discrepancy, from the agreement, but that you can, as I say, be assumed, and that you are part of the great institutional agreement, the great legal agreement that we have in this country, which is based on the Statute of Autonomy and the Spanish Constitution. Mr Puigdemont, we ask you, on behalf of a very important part of the Catalan society, that this late opened the door, and that these four years of blockade that have brought to the fact that we have this institutional door closed..., that, by the way, you can enter the light. Mr Puigdemont, let's wait, and let's give it with all the good will and with the best of wishes, that this late we want the President of the Generality to be the President of all Catalans and not just on one side. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.75.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.76.0	Yeah. It is obvious that we always try to give our policy the whole serene, even though it sometimes costs; it costs when you see that there are threats, resources to the Constitutional of laws approved by a very large majority in this Parliament – by a very large majority in this Parliament – and that they deserve the most absolute disregard and that they are threats of suspension. And it's been a morning that I won't say I'm worried, but it seems to me that he could be relieved, or, in any case, that he could do, at all events, unnecessary gathering. You say that you are proposing better, more resources, but that they are acceptable to President Rajoy. Home, President Rajoy's capacity to assume so far has been perfectly described. And, therefore, if the ambition with which a_one has to meet with the president in office is" what he is willing to take on, it is a more short-lived ambition, which would not do justice to the emergencies and the needs he has raised in this country. I, the one that I celebrate, Mr Albiol, is that Moncloa, this time, has not vetoed the petitions that we have made to talk about issues. Because we have to go and talk about what has not been completed in all these years – that it is no longer twenty-three points, it is already advance that it will be a few more – that it has not been attentive to the political and social changes of this country. I am an elected president for a parliament that has an absolute independenceist majority. And that's one thing the president of the Spanish government needs to know, even though I understand that you must have already informed him of respect. And, besides, he must also hear that judicializing politics is not the best way to solve the issues and introduce the serenity and the sign that you claimed from others. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.77.0	Dotzena asks the president about the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the reactivation of the National Pact for the Right to Decide and actions to promote an agreed consultation]] [[317-00034/11]] The question is posed by Mr. Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.78.0	Thank you very much, President. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. Very honorable, he was now talking about a major issue, that of the blockade – that of the blockade – of this conflict situation between the Catalan institutions and the Spanish Government. I believe that, little by little, it is imposing the feeling, the perception, that we can only unlock this situation calling, once more, to the majority of our society, which is in favour of the right to decide. A large majority as to be able to decant and unlock this situation. You yourself recovered, therefore, a few days ago and in different interviews and positions, the idea of a consultation agreed. We congratulate ourselves, but now we remind you that this will not be a way of roses, it will not be easy, and that it will be necessary to reactivate citizen mobilization and complicity to make it possible. Our question is very concrete: are you willing to promote, reactivate or re-establish the National Covenant on the Right to Decide?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.79.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.80.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, we're just the ones from the reference. The seven times we've introduced it won't stop us from making it a seventeen times. And so, here, they'll always find us. But we've already... come from a long way. And where we do insist, at the same time as we insist on the need for an agreed consultation or an agreement with the Spanish Government, in which we insist – and in this case, very directly to the political formation that you represent – is that it is time to come up with: "And if once we come up with the reference, we see that it is not possible, what will we do? Because we're already in time. The tactical game of knowing if each has positioned itself properly before the changes that the Catalan people have undergone in this sense..., has passed the time of this. We're in time for decisions. This is a parliament and this is a government committed to making decisions, decisions in building an independent state. On this tram, if what we need to do – and here I think we agree – is a concerted consultation, we are available. But it has to be clear why this consultation is needed. And it must be made clear that the consultation agreed, while it is not agreed, this government will continue to drive its full route.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.81.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.82.0	Yeah. One more time we're talking about the principles of reality. I had the impression, the other day, when I was listening to her in the interview she was doing with Mrs. Ana Pastor, that we had..., I had the sight of an airplane that was enjoying gasoline and that was requesting a landing strip. Clearly, under these circumstances it may try to disobey the laws of navigation, but gravity is very difficult to unhook them. [[Some laughs and applause.]] And here the question is always a question of the correlation of forces – a question of the correlation of forces. We may have been denied a right or a democratic claim a thousand times. If this claim is necessary and is the way to blush a situation and to open a new scene, it's about keeping up and generating the conditions that make it possible. Because, one more time, you can say that a path has closed or is very difficult, but what you are proposing is necessary, and it is proving step by step, absolutely unrealistic and impractical. We are not discussing the legitimacy of the claim, on the contrary, we are considering whether you, and, concretely, are willing to reactivate an extensive agreement of the Catalan society to generate a scene that makes it possible to decide on this society's future. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.83.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.84.0	Yes, thank you very much. Speaking of the law of gravity, I think that, measuring the weight of things, which is what determines the strength of gravity, I know that you will be able to know the enormous importance that they hold the mobilizations of the past..., let's say, the five mobilizations with millions of people in the street, before the mobilizations that, precisely, go in the direction of currency. What weighs more, one thing or another? It's clear, isn't it? And, therefore, before this empirical evidence of Catalan reality, can you describe to me what the performance of the Spanish Government before this force of nature is? Zero – zero. So you're telling us that we must continue to insist before those before this manifestation of social realism in Catalonia continue to do nothing? Power yes. Patience is not infinite either, even though we have a lot of it. Now, the one that's not the time is the stick and the doughnut. I mean, the stick and the doughnut, it's over. The pastanague, I'm seeing that... man, we'd like to make a constitutional reform, but we can't, because we're not good enough yet. But wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, And this Parliament didn't decide, do you know who decided it? The people of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.85.0	Tretzena asks the President of the Generalitat, about the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the 15-month compliment of the government plan presented]] [[317-00035/11]] The question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.86.0	Thank you, Madam President. Many honourable President, do you think that in the fifteen months that are supposed to be in the legislature, the plan of government presented yesterday can be a long one?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.87.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.88.0	With all roundness, yes. [[Rialles. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.89.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.90.0	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Mr President, in this House we are debating your first two bills of law, and yesterday you announced forty-five. Forty-five bills of law do not connect people with fifteen months of the legislature; in fact, in fifteen months it is proposed to do what the governments of Arthur More did in three years. As you know, our group has always criticized the prospect of a very short parliamentary term, and we have also considered the full route that guided it to be unworkable. Yesterday, in knowing his plan of government, we thought that perhaps the legislature would not be so short, and that somehow the disconnection, this euphemism of independence, remained in a _second plan. I admit that we may be confusing desires with reality. But let me tell you that a lot of people would appreciate a change of pace, a reconsideration of objectives and strategies, a greater cross-cutting of the approaches, more agreement and less division. President, it's been a hundred days and there's still no date for the assumption. We see discrepancies in whether the Government, as motivated by the project of the Village and Salou Recreation and Tourism Centre or the sex-secretive concerts. We see the lack of sufficient parliamentary support in full debate and in committee. We believe that the objective of its full route is incompatible with the stability and rigour required of the government that Catalonia needs. In fact, we believe that your full route is incompatible with the plan of government that you presented yesterday. But, President, I also believe that the citizens don't want us to judge intentions, they don't want us to get hurt, but they want us to see results. And in order to achieve many of the concrete results that you fixed yesterday as an objective you can count on the socialists whenever you don't put forward a full path that we don't share. President, you're late seeing President Rajoy. I already know that I would have liked to be able to share objectives and strategy – you had no obligation, but I think it would have been fine –; in any case, I would recommend that in your interview, that we hope and wish that it would be profitable, look for agreements for the concrete objectives of your government plan, and, despite the fact that you want to leave them on the table, keep in mind that the elements and objectives of your full road will not be found in President Rajoy's head of support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.91.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.92.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. I suppose this final part of your intervention is due to the fact that you must have spoken to Mr. Rajoy or you must have figured out what your understanding will be, or you must have recommended that you do something specific about what I am going to plant, which, as you will understand, the first one to know concretely what I am going to plant is Mr. Rajoy, often for institutional respect. I think you can hear this, even though you understand it, from the four big blocks of fears that I announced yesterday that I would treat you, that I can guide you in today's conversation. It's a guide that has to be dense and it has to be intense, a little like this legislature. You think it's still in the mindset of the calendar, and so much so if we tell him that the calendar is not a prison or a armor, but what really will guide us is the plan of government. Because you continue to insist on this mental mark of the calendar. Exercising realism... [[Funnel veils]] – doing a realism exercise–, I, what I can guarantee, precisely, is that this plan of government is a monument to realism. That it is very far from the plan of government that it should do or that it could do, no longer an independent state, but an autonomous community that enjoys the compliment of the agreements of the State, but that, despite this, it is able to go until the end of its powers and its resources to set the absolute priority of this Government, that you have stated that you have it, that other groups have expressed that they have it, that it is the attention of people, but that we see the facts, that we will find when we present the assumptions to Parliament, whether they accompany or not this declaration of intent. And then we will see who really makes toasts to the sun, who really makes processes, let's say, of little political realism when before concrete proposals, compromise assumptions, plans of governments with concrete letters, so it gives support or does not give support. For us it will not remain, what I am afraid is that you can make use of the excuse and smoke screen of the full road to independence so as not to vote for presuppositional questions that accompany government policies that I am convinced that they fit in and that they know that they are the ones to be adopted by this government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.93.0	Fourteen questions the president about the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the first hundred days of the government and the actions to reach agreement with other political parties]] [[317-00032/11]] The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.94.0	Thank you, Madam President. President Puigdemont, 100 days of unproductive government have passed. In the last thirty-five days you have met with the main Spanish political leaders. It is good that you feel like talking to those who do not think like you, the bad thing is that you have so far proved to be able to reach agreements only with those who agree with you in supporting the breakup and not respecting democratic laws, even though they are anti-system parties that have nothing to do with your voters. You, gathering meets with everyone, that's true, now reaching agreements and covenants with those who think differently, that's already a little bit more difficult for you. Five days ago you met with Albert Rivera and he moved him that Citizens will never support the break with the rest of Spain, he proposed to negotiate in Madrid to obtain better autonomous financing and basic infrastructures, for example, like the Mediterranean Corridor. He also said that we could agree on social policies and democratic regeneration, but you put forward your whole rupturist sheet. After these meetings that end today, I ask you, Mr Puigdemont, if you really work to reach agreements with those who do not think like you and if in these fifteen months of legislature, that you do not think..., if we are going to continue standing in the dead end of the conflict and the breakup, or will use them by the President of the Generalitat to progress and to reach agreements, for example, in financing and infrastructure, that we share much of the Catalans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.95.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.96.0	Yes; thank you very much. Mr. Carrizosa, take advantage only to wish the recovery of the mother of Mrs. Arrimadas, who is recovering, and send her the support from here. A first question, you talk about‘100 days of unproductive government. I won't know all about the relationship we've already done, that I explained a few things to you yesterday, but I could pass you the list of the activity we've had in these first hundred days and in the circumstances in which we've had to do it, and I think you, after reading it, if you were, let's say, coherently, you couldn't sustain this unproductiveness. Not only have I presented five laws, which you say, is not bad; I have spoken to a few presidents of autonomous communities; I have met with two of them; I have met with all the political leaders who have done well to come and talk to me, and today I will do so with the president in office; I have met 30 mayors; 3, 4 councillors; I have held 24 diplomatic meetings... – I say that sometimes they say that the world does not listen to us –, 24 diplomatic meetings, 12 of which with ambassadors– ambassadors–; I have held 41 meetings with social, economic and cultural agents; I have made 16 territorial visits; I have visited 26 municipalities, etc. Except I've seen myself with all the parliamentary groups in a hundred days. Therefore, the rhythm that we have set before our government is an accelerated rhythm. And at this rate we have had time to talk, yes. And to express the will we believe, and I repeat, that in the itinerary to give better services to our citizens, we want to do it with the tools of the State, because we have seen that the tools of autonomy are not enough; in this itinerary, doing a political exercise of honesty all folded, there were coincidences, which is what I told Mr. Rivera also. And so, if you have the courage to give support to an independent government on those routes that we know to agree because we help people, I assure you that for our band, there will be no problem, and we will see it when we talk about assumptions, and we are on condition of negotiating with all groups the assumptions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.97.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.98.0	Thank you for your good wishes for Mrs. Arrimadas' mother. You said, two days ago, that you are the chairman of the agreements. I confess to you that we see no possibility of reaching any agreement from the extremism of your positions and the pressure of your anti-system partners. We, instead, from moderation, in Citizens have reached agreements with the Andalusian Socialist Party, with the Madrid PP, with Pedro Sánchez, for a pact of reforms and progress, without sectarianisms. That's expensive, but we've done it. Don't make us lose fifteen more months just to increase the frustration and division of Catalans. You and your congressional deputies are not getting or negotiating anything in Madrid for all Catalans. We are going to do that, we who are the party of Catalan origin with more deputies in Congress, we are not only going to dialogue with everyone, but we are going to put those forty deputies in Congress and this leading parliamentary opposition group at the service of the reforms that all Spaniards need and of course, including them, all Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.99.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.100.0	Thank you very much. Now I see we're going to elections. [[relays]] Because you just had a rally now, you've done the jingle of the season. It's clear that we want agreements in finance, in infrastructure... it's not that we want them, it's that we haven't done so many, we haven't signed so many, all right, that it's not enough to agree, because we've come to it, but what it is to complete them. And do you know who they call it – I think you already know – to complete the agreements on infrastructure? From the Spanish State – from the Spanish State – and, therefore, do not tell us that we are the ones who do not want to reach agreements, because we arrive there. And speaking of moderation, you don't have to refer to the day your group promoted Europe, calling independence worthy of being treated for the psychiatrist, do you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.101.0	President – President – has exhausted time. Fifteen questions to the President of the Generality on the latest political developments. [[Ask the president about the first hundred days of the government's balance and the government's action in the function of the state in this same period]] [[317-00036/11]] The question is posed by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.102.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Very honorable president, sometimes this looks like the world backwards, doesn't it? I'm saying this because those who want to get to agreements have been unable to make a government in the Spanish State, and if we're having a control session with the government, it's because here it's been able to get to an agreement, and we just want to talk about this government, which is possible because of what it came to. And we want to talk about the hundred days of government, of a government that made very clear and very clear commitments before the assembly of the people of Catalonia, therefore, from the investiture debate. Neither is this an ordinary legislature – we have always said this – nor did the Government have a mandate or ordinary commitments, nor have they, therefore, this parliamentary group. Our commitment..., we have said it many times, today the president also said it, we have come here to build an independent state and work also for the better of the conditions of the people in this while. So it's not about doing things to do things, it's about doing things with meaning. And these first hundred days we need to assess whether the actions implemented and completed, the actions initiated and the actions planned respond to these objectives. Now, too, when you're rocking and when you're valuing, you have to have the adversities to face, too, because if you don't, it wouldn't be fair enough, would it? Nor have there been any adversities here, but all the contrary: we continue to have a state that in these hundreds of days has not only done the impossible to prevent the democratic mandate of 27 September and go through the judicial route to what is from a political camp, but also seeks to leave nothing to be done in the line of being able to improve the living conditions of the citizens at this time. And by placing absolutely inexhaustible disability targets that offer possibilities for action, nullifying everything that is to be done for those people who still have to sort between passing cold or gaining, or not letting us go out, they do not want us to go out. I believe that, among other things, if anything has become clear, it is the determination of the Government and this parliamentary group not to be intimidated or to put up with what is our commitment to the citizens of Catalonia. That is why, President, we want to ask him: what is the balance of his government's actions these first days? And also in contrast to what has been the action of the government in function and of the Spanish State in these hundred days? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.103.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.104.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Congressman, I believe that these hundred days, without..., it is not my style to want to sin of..., in other words, self-fulfilling, they have placed us at the pace and in the priorities that must characterize the legislature. One hundred days, I mean, of course, I mean that we have Government, that we have been able to celebrate a ple of poor people and reach agreements that we are implementing, that we have presented the plan of government, that we have assumptions that the vice president is already on the run, that we have been able to give an answer that I think of national pride in the issue of refugees, that we have put on the run a series of questions and we have faced some of the crises that we have encountered, as in the case of the sad accident of Freginals, and, therefore, a hundred days of going on the side of a hundred days of straw. Fresh for lack of agreement, fresh for the vetoes of each other, of "I want to talk to you, but if you don't do anything, I won't talk about it, if" now I have not enough votes..., that the first measure that is proposed to the Congress of Deputies, the first motion that is voted at the Congress of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen deputies, wasn't about poor, it wasn't about refugees, it wasn't about the economic crisis. Do you know what it was? About the unit of Spain. And that's the difference – and they didn't agree –, that's the difference between a hundred days of right and a hundred days of right. What do we expect for the future? Home, let us do it, because the government of "do not do it or let it do it – that it could have a description that I do not want to serve in its parliament – is a government that does not suit the citizen, not only the Catalan citizen, the Spanish citizen nor the agreement. And it would be good if Catalan politics..., I, to Spanish politics... – I said in one of the first sessions of control – take note of Catalan politics. Some will laugh then. I said: "Take an example of how we have been able to manage the enormous complexity – and recognize it –; take an example of how we have been able to resolve the situation in Catalonia and to think first of the citizens and then of the majority parliaments, and therefore adapt the majority parliaments to what the citizens want, and start to walk and make decisions. Because these three months haven't been good for anyone. Nor for the citizens of Catalonia who suffer the consequences of a Spanish government submit in the most absolute paralysis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.105.0	After the control session, we pass now to the next item on the order of the day, which is: "Communication to the plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees shall be communicated to the plenary. As the new composition is already included in the file that has been distributed to all Members, I urge them to complete their reading. [[Pause.]] Completing the rule 49.2, we now move to the next point of the order of the day. [[Draft Law on the Book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to obligations and contracts (debate of totality)]] [[200-00002/11]] The third item on the agenda is: "Debate of totality on the draft law on the legal basis of the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to obligations and contracts. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules, he presented the initiative, on behalf of the Government of the Generality, Mr. Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justicia. [[Widow's remorse. Long break.]] I'm gonna call them quiet, please. (Pause.) Please, if you have to leave, I'm in a hurry and in silence, that we have to continue the session. [[Pause.]] When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.106.0	Yeah, good morning. Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I appear before you all to present the draft law on the legal basis of the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to obligations and contracts, which is the first draft law that is the object of a debate to the whole of this legislature. I can assure them that it is a real honor for me, and it is still more than that for this reason: to present this law. As you know, in the previous legislature, the government has already presented this text before the chamber, but the project has fallen short of the end of the legislature. In their proceedings, the two items were discussed and exceeded in the totality that had been presented and all the submissions requested by the various parliamentary groups were made; there was a great deal of interest in the Journal of Sessions of the Commission of Justice, which would certainly contribute to the improvement of the project and this new process, which we trust will culminate in the proper months. In any case, before entering the content of this bill, I would like to remind you of some questions that I think are important. As you know, the task of this Parliament in the field of civil law began in 1984 with the adaptation of the Compilation of the Civil Law of Catalonia in 1960 to the constitutional principles and the Catalan social reality of that time. At a later stage, the Parliament began the task of progressive updating of the appropriate civil law through various special laws, such as the one now approved by the Code of Succession for the Cause of Death, the Family Code or the laws regulating various special contracts. Since the year 2000 the next legislative phase has begun in its own right; it is the phase that we would say in its own right "of codification of the Catalan civil right, first, of the hand of the Observer of Private Rights of Catalonia and, then, with the Commission of Codification, all of them very recognizable organs of the Department of Justice, some of whom accompany us today in this Chamber and to whom I greet with gratitude and gratitude. It is just to put into value the task due to completion for all persons who have formed part in one or other stage of the Commission of Codification of Catalonia and of the Observers of Dret Privat, advisory bodies, elaboration and proposal of standard texts, integrated, these organs, for prestigious lawyers recognized. These collegiate bodies have allowed the task of developing the Catalan civil right to be developed by means of very close collaboration between public authorities and civil society. Thanks to the expert, the rigour, the experience and the plurality of the members who integrate them, the civil law projects coming to this Parliament have a particular guarantee of interest and a high degree of consensus. The codification phase of Catalonia's civil law, to which reference was made, had its first concretion in Law 29/2002, which established the structure of the Civil Code of Catalonia and approved its first book. According to this law, our Civil Code was structured into six books: the first book, dealing with general provisions; the second book, dealing with the person and family; the third book, dealing with legal persons; the fourth book, dealing with successions; the fifth book, dealing with real rights; and finally, the second book, dealing with obligations and contracts, which is what I present to you today. The first to five books have been approved for this Parliament between the years 2002 and 2015, following the principles of open code or subsequent formation that guided the elaboration of the Civil Code of Catalonia. I believe that this rest is enough to see how important this later release, the earthquake, completes the structure of the Civil Code of Catalonia, and with all this a history of recovery, development and codification of our civil rights. We must be aware of the relevancy of this moment, of the historical opportunity that we have in front of us. We are about to complete the Civil Code of Catalonia, and this is an opportunity that many generations have the privilege of leading. It is not enough to remember that the valid Spanish Civil Code approved the year 1889. It must be borne in mind that Catalonia's civil rights do not begin with the 1979 Statute or the 1978 Constitution, but only from the far. I have already mentioned the 1960 compilation, approved in the full dictatorship, and it is not even the most authoritative rules that have sought to eliminate our institutions have succeeded in the disappearance of the Catalan private right; neither did the decree of the New Plant of Philip V. And I remember, because no one forgets, that the Catalan legal tradition goes from the moon, and we have many examples. Catalonia's civil law has a millennial history, among which the Barcelona Uses of the 11th century, or the Constitutions of Catalonia, which were promulgated between the 13th and 18th centuries, stand out; examples of how these should be seen by those who deny us the condition of birth that Catalonia is a political subject that goes from the far. Allow me, at this point, to thank the Chamber for the broad consensus that this Parliament has been able to approve the set of laws that conform to the Civil Code of Catalonia, and for this I must say that I am surprised that on this occasion the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party rejects the text of the book if it presents a statement to the totality. On the other hand, I am grateful that on this occasion the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group has reconsidered its position and, unlike what it did in the previous parliamentary term, this time it has not presented an issue to the totality, and it is also about the same bill. We will have the opportunity to listen to the reasons of the People's Party to present its message to the totality, but it is easy to predict that the reasons have very little to see with the contents of this legislative proposal. We are accustomed to the systematic, instrumental and partisan re-engineering of any initiative that comes from the Catalan institutions, much so that the argument is makeup with competitive rhetoric. The competence to develop the right has not been questioned by anyone. In fact, neither the approval of the Compilation of the Civil Law of Catalonia of 1960, in the full Franco dictatorship, denied the existence of the civil law propitious to Catalonia. That is why, I insist, I am surprised that in 2016, the People's Party presented a statement to the totality. In any case, they won't explain the motius to us. Next step is to expose the contents of the draft law of the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to obligations and contracts. As you know, the draft law aims to establish the structure of this free sisè, regulate the purchase contract and the swap contract, incorporate previously regulated contracts into special laws and replace the Compilation of Catalonia's Civil Law. For what it does to the structure of the book sisè, it is initially divided into three titles: general provisions, contractual types and non-contractual obligations. In the second title, there are a total of twelve contracts, grouped into various classes or contractual categories, among which the contract of sale is particularly noteworthy, which, as everyone knows, is the paradigmatic contract of the private law and is the basis of many other contracts. Being able to make a civil code allows legal institutions to adapt to the economic and social reality in which we live. This is why this draft law incorporates European directives on contracts affecting consumers. And it highlights, in this sense, the willingness to protect the weaker part of the contract, in order to introduce a right of information, for the benefit of the buyer or consumer, which compensates for the asymmetry of information that usually exists in favour of the seller and thus increases contractual transparency. Among other novelties, it is also appropriate to highlight the specialties that we want to incorporate into the real estate sale and that have already been targeted for Catalan notarial and registrar practice, as now the faculty of withdrawal in the assumption that the contract has included a forecast on the financing of the price on the part of a third party and this financing is ultimately frustrated. This, I think, is a good example of the connection of the new regulation to the most recent reality we've ever experienced. This bill, I say, has as its object the regulation of twelve contracts. I will explain them: the contract of sale, already commented; the exchange; the cessation of land or urban development to change future construction; the contract of rustic lease; the partnership; the masoveria; the contract of lease for pastures, which may be considered, at all events, by someone else, as a folkloric point, but which recognizes and admits that many of the contracts that I have now exposed them have a social impact on the territory and in many of our communities; the contract of integration, with a high importance in the field of the branch; the contract of custody of the territory; the rape, which recovers and updates a historical figure similar to that in the later years some banks have marketed, with matisses, as the default contract; With the approval of the set of standards that develop the Civil Law of Catalonia, the Parliament provides our legal order with a civil code that is of direct and preferential application, which places the Spanish Civil Code as a rule of subsidiary application. They are, therefore, the Civil Code of Catalonia, a rule of direct application, we have the duty to extend to the maximum its knowledge among all legal operators, and also between the citizenry. And let me highlight, in this sense, the task of preserving and renewing the civil right which, at the length of the secles – yes, at the length of the secles – have made the notaries to Catalonia, which have always recognized and applied it in their professional practice. We also need to appreciate the effort that has been made by universities to give him knowledge, and we need to work even more, more intensively, to spread it more present in the practice of lawyers and courts. They ask that on this occasion the groups of the chamber, as has happened with the previous laws, can approve with vast majority this first law of the book of the Civil Code, and I fully understand that, because this is possible, it will be necessary to enrich the text that I present to them with the contributions and papers that all parliamentary groups consider more relevant. I agree with the advanced effort that I'm sure they will make. The culmination of the Civil Code of Catalonia is one of the great threads of this legislature, and I feel – I said it at first – deeply honoured to be able to start the legislative activity with such a fundamental norm for the citizens of Catalonia and which has a direct impact on their daily lives. I told them before: there are very few generations that have the opportunity to write, from scratch, a new civil code, a rule that, to be sure, is an authentic structure of state. Today our generation has the opportunity to make a new and modern civil code, and soon, if the majority of the citizenry wants it, this will also be the code of the new and modern country that we have the opportunity to make together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.107.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, for the defense of the totality of the speech presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word "Mrs Esperanza García".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.108.0	Thank you, President. Look, I'll start with something as simple as remembering what the word 'emergency' means; it seems ridiculous that I do, but sometimes it seems like we have to remember. It is something that must be resolved immediately; speed and care without delay that requires a situation; a pressing need. Today we are here to submit to the adoption of a bill on the sixth book of the Civil Code. I, as a lawyer, would have liked to be able to say yes to that approval, and it also gives me great pity not being able to accompany them. But what has been brought here as a project of urgency, and of extraordinary urgency, in the People's Party, therefore, gives us some thought, or at least a few questions. Firstly, what is the urgent need in Catalonia to regulate obligations and contracts? Is there any alarm that indicates the need to develop specific regulations in Catalonia for contracts and obligations? Are the citizens of Catalonia unprotected, unprotected, because their contracts are protected in the catalogue of obligations that our Civil Code recognizes and that it has been protecting nothing more or less than since 1889, along with Community-type and consumer-rights regulations? The answer to all these questions is that in Catalonia all those who enter into a contract of sale or exchange, or a contract of consumption, are duly protected, as are the other Spaniards. And that's exactly what they want to regulate in this code, in this sixth book of the code. So, if this bill is not appropriate to the needs, because there is no real need, then it leads us to analyze what is regulated and why is regulated. You, Mr Councillor, have made progress on what the People's Party's reasons are for saying no to this book, and I will explain them to you. You're very prejudiced, aren't you? I will tell you, as to what: the object of regulation of this bill..., we also find that what is intended to regulate is not appropriate, and now I explain why. In Catalonia, of course, we recognize our own civil law, and that is recognized in our Constitution. And how is it recognized? It is recognized in order to be able to develop..., the competence to develop all the traditional legal institutions of Catalonia, to do so, is also reflected in article 149.1.8, and the additional provision tells us, textually, that "the Constitution protects and respects the historical rights of the outlying territories. And that is fully in force, and it is today. It is even recognized in case law by the Constitutional Court, since the year 93, that, in fact, this possibility of developing is not only for the old, it is not only for the traditional, but also that the legal figures that were collected in the Compilation can be adapted, and even collect, black on white, all those legal practices that were usual, which are customary in daily practice as customs or customs, and be able to incorporate them in a regulation to give them more protection, to something that is already being done, right? , and so provide you with guarantees. This is that you can make full and extensive progress in the regulation of Catalan civil law, as long as it is not forced, as long as the accelerator is not tightened, as you usually do. As long as what is sought is: guarantee, enhance, develop and give greater security to the traditional legal institutions that we have on this earth. And proof of that – and you have mentioned it in your explanation – is that since the 1960 Compilation a great deal of work has been done, and reforms have been made so thoroughly that even 111 of the Catalan Civil Code fully recognizes that the law that applies in Catalonia is not a specific or special right, but that it is the common right, it is the same, and that in addition all other laws are complementary to it, that is, that they are as special, isn't it? And it was, wasn't it? , and it has been practiced in practice since 89, which is when this transposition of the Compilation begins to develop. In fact, they have changed since the statute of limitations... No, you did not mention it but that was a major reform, which generated a lot of legal conflicts, because even until there has been no clear jurisprudence, by shortening the statute of limitations, because, as was the case with the right of credit, from fifteen to three years, it has caused quite a few difficulties. The incapacitations of the internment were changed and a special regime was made for Catalonia. In family law, de facto, the Catalan tradition was almost set aside, wasn't it? , because they replaced the regime for the separation of matrimonial property with a practically profit-sharing regime – de facto, because, except in a pact to the contrary, the profit-sharing regime governs. In successions, therefore, the vidual reserve, which was also traditional Catalan, was suppressed; and it was equated – this, a very good thing – the inheritance right to couples in fact. Even the special community was modified by turn and the horizontal ownership regime. In other words, fix the amount of margin that has existed for the regulation, adaptation and empowerment of Catalan civil law despite the difficulties and legal insecurities that have been generated at times. But if we also move away from the Constitution and focus on Article 129 of the Statute, you will not find any support to be able to carry forward the reform of this sixth book of the Civil Code, basically because Article 129 of the Statute tells us that this possibility of regulation is legitimized to preserve, modify, to develop Catalan civil law with figures of legal tradition in the Compilation. The question is: you are trying to regulate above the Constitution and the Statue, and you are doing it above Article 149.1, 6 and 8, and you are doing it, too, above the Statue. And you are doing so, among other things, because you consider, therefore, that there has to be a new law of bases for contracts in Catalonia. That is, that what is being regulated in a state way, to give it more security, so that all citizens, sign where they sign a contract, wherever they are, have a common regime and be safe, because that ends and that commercial traffic is affected by insecurity. Moreover, they are even regulating almost above what is European tradition. That is to say, both Spain and other countries are tending to incorporate their laws and regulations, in the end, to what is logical in trade traffic and legal traffic, which is: to seek security, to seek a certain uniformity that allows such traffic in an easier way, and they are even adapting European legislation to national laws. Moreover, work is even being done on a basis for harmonising European contract law by laying down general and common principles. Germany has done it, France has done it, Spain is in it and, in fact, work is under way on recommendations and reports from the General Codification Commission. But you, that, then, do not seem to be of much interest to you. You guys go ahead, always, without lifting the foot of the accelerator. And we arrived here, at the presentation of this book. This book, you know perfectly well – as all your parliamentary group and even all those who will support you – that this book exceeds the competences. They're aware of it. And they are and do not care, among other things because, even though you repeat or have repeated it at certain times – the former councillor, you, I see that it has no kind of complex – in which this did not respond to a break-up strategy with the rest of Spain, the reality is that it is – the reality is that it is – and we have also had the opportunity to hear it from you two weeks ago, and now, today, from this rostrum. You said that this, this new code, served to better develop Catalan civil law. And it's a lie. And proof of that is that today you've told us clearly, haven't you? We lack a book to close the entire Catalan Civil Code and this is a state structure. Well, here we are. The reality is that we, from the People's Party, have tabled an amendment to the whole and, despite the fact that you went ahead and said: "You are predictable; I will see – I will see – what you say to me, that amendment is presented to the whole not only because it invades competences; also on the matter, which you said: "On the matter you will not tell me anything, because we will tell you. Prejudice. The reality is that this law invades competences, does not empower its own legal institutions and therefore makes no sense in its approval. That does not seem to have been very clear to Ciutadans, who, at the time, as you have rightly said from this rostrum, presented an amendment to the whole last year, but now it seems that he has changed his mind; but, well, the doubts have been completely resolved. The only reason you bring us here for this Civil Code book, this new book, is that you want to create state structures. And that's the point. There's no more. There is no development of the Catalan legal institutions themselves, what there is is another new rule created with the intention of creating a state structure, which happens, therefore, because it is one more of those that already carry out, from the contracts, social security, through health, and in the end demanding the rest of the Spaniards that the divorce be tolerated, we pay for it and that the Catalans that we share projects sum, so we fall into legal traps thinking that this is, therefore, a book to improve what is our legal tradition, isn't it? So, in fact, the reasons..., that is, we have the reasons to present the amendment as a whole, as the song says. Because, moreover, we have found, even in matter matter – that we have looked at it with great affection, I tell you – we have found many elements not to support them. First of all, the regulation of sales is not part of your own civil law, and you know that perfectly well. The regulation is deficient, it is confusing, it has legislative technical errors and, in addition, what is more funny is that it is a bad copy of the Civil Code of 1889. What I'm saying is that, as we moved on for a while, they could have copied it well, couldn't they? , being in the situation we're in. You have not clarified whether the contract conveys obligations or property. That, as the jurists say, does not distinguish between title or mode, is a very serious issue which, in addition, generates interpretative problems, legal disputes, and also violates European law itself. But it is also that the regulation of the exchange will also have problems, because it is not specified whether the right is constituted as real or personal. Important, too, highlight what. This also affects whether or not the Mortgage Law can then be applied. In consumer sales they do not specify who should be considered as a consumer either; you refer to Community directives – which solvent another – and you deprive consumers of rights in forward sales. Moreover, a notary is given power so that, in the case of non-payment of a sale on time, i.e. that one does not pay any of the fees, it is the notary, together with the seller, who decides that the thing, then, reverts again to the seller and an annotation is made and there remains the rights of the consumer: in a notary record where only the seller appears. The reality is that neither effective judicial guardianship has respected; neither article 24 of the Constitution, nor the Mortgage Act, nor any guarantee whatsoever. Come on, the consumer, in the end, is clearly lagging behind in the recognition of rights. They have even been deprived of the fact of knowing, so basic in a sale, what is the price of the thing they are going to buy. One thing that is, come on, essential: subject, object and price, isn't it? This is what our Civil Code tells us. They have left it to a criterion as specific and as legally secure as saying: "The price will be set later, according to what is normal in ordinary traffic. And I wonder: and normality who fixes it? On what basis and on what sampling? And with what officiality? Getting to court? Because that is the safe destination that is going to have this: get to the courts, where, contracts that are already signed, then buyer and seller cannot agree on the price. And that's evidence that just pops into sight with a not too profuse reading of the article. We have analyzed how – hurry –, what – matter – and why this project, and that is summed up, in three words, in the end – in fact I could have made my intervention much shorter –: hurry, disconnected i structure d'etat. Those are the three reasons why we are here talking about the sixth book of the Civil Code. The result is a law full – full – of legal errors, which will generate many problems of insecurity and litigation. Come on, you're going to give a lot of work to the notaries and lawyers – that we've had tough times, right? – but, of course, they will give a lot of headaches to the courts, and a lot to the courts that will have to solve so much conflict. This is a new sign that you don't need any disconnection, because you already have it! It has been a long time since they cared about harming the exercise of citizens' rights and the preservation of our institutions. Here they come to sell us a book, the sixth book of the Catalan Civil Code, as another chapter of the book and its book on separation. And we are not going to be your crutch, and we are not going to get into any complex where no parliamentary group, from this parliamentary arc, has the same position as we do. I hope – I am telling you this, counselor – that the fact that the People's Party, and this Member who defended this amendment in its entirety today, will not be appointed by you or your party partners to seek the guillotine prize...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.109.0	Mrs. Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.110.0	...for thinking differently.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.111.0	Member of the Commission. - You've run out of time. Thank you. Then, in order to fix its position, has the word José María Espejo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.112.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Honourable Councillor de Justícia, Mr Mundó, all parliamentary debates on drafts and proposals for legislation have, in essence, a political and a technical part; in relation to the first, with the ideological orientation of the promoter of the initiative, and the second, with the way in which these initiatives are put forward. Well, this debate is no exception, but rather could be seen as a paradigm of this kind of debate. As for the political side, you don't hide – you never have – that what you want with this rule is to create a new state structure. You said it yourself today, and I add one intercomilado: "with which to replace Spanish legislation. You did not say that today; I say this because those were the words, for example, that Mr Lluís Llach used in the past plenary, when he referred to this bill and said: "And that is future and also day to day, is it not? , in a way that pretended to be epic. I, Mr Llach, presume..., do not know, sincerely, but assume that he is not interested and that he is surely unaware of the technical aspects of a law like this and what they can influence, precisely, the day-to-day Catalans; but what he was interested in saying about it, is that he replaced Spanish legislation. Which, by the way, no matter how much you want, it won't be like that. And that seemed enough to him. I do not know whether Mr Llach is too interested in the regulation of sales, the validity and effectiveness of contracts, the limitation of shares, the urban use swaps, the introduction of regulatory dispersion in the field of consumption or a law which provides for three titles and rules only one. That you said: "You have three titles. Yes, yes, but he's missing two – he's missing two – that is, it's a very curious law. The important thing for you is that it is a different law from the Spanish Civil Code. If it's better or worse, that's the least. And let's not say if it's within the jurisdiction of the Generalitat anymore, that's what they care least about. And, look, I, coming from you, can even understand that, because that is your usual way of doing politics and dealing with legislative initiatives in this plenary. But beyond that, what you have to ask yourself before any bill is if it improves people's lives, if it improves people's lives, if it makes it easier, if it protects them or if it interferes with them. And I think that, honestly... – or at least I think so, because of your intervention, because you haven't mentioned it, you've strictly referred to technical matters – is that they don't seem to care much; they haven't talked about it. They want a different law because they do, and that's it. That is the motivation of this Civil Code or this sixth book of the Civil Code. Look, Catalan civil law – and in that I think we all agree – has a great historical tradition, and if it has it it's because it has – and above all it did, huh? – a utility for citizens that needs to be taken back and updated. From Citizens we defend the development of Catalan civil law in the terms contained in the Statute of autonomy and in the Constitution, and in the ruling of the Constitutional Court – which we do comply with – on the issue, because it has had the opportunity to pronounce itself on the same thing. If it were because of the concrete, textual content of this initiative, an amendment to the whole would be fully justified, and indeed we tabled it in the last legislature, because we thought it was most appropriate. But, look, in this legislature, we have indeed decided to change our mind and not to table that amendment as a whole, to the extent that we believe that it is time to update Catalan civil law and that it must be amended and reformed, because it is simply and simply not in use at all, and that is a reality. It is by no means disused by its inadequacy to social reality and by the lack of knowledge of the legal actors on the issue. That is the case, Mr Councillor, and if you don't recognize me, we start wrong so that Catalan civil law can develop. Look, we have not tabled that amendment and we will try to bring to the articulated wisdom and consistency in the process of amendments, but we understand that..., to those who have submitted it, because, as it is, the articulated would be fully – fully – justified. In any case, I also believe that if the bill is passed in the terms in which it was introduced, it is unconstitutional – it is unconstitutional. I insist that..., I know that you don't care, because you think that what the Constitutional Court says has no effect, but fortunately in Spain it seems to me that the judges – the judges of Catalonia, in particular – will not agree with you on that, and it is the judges who apply the law, although you often do not like it. It is the judges, in Spain, and in Catalonia, who apply and interpret the law, any area of the law, any jurisdiction of the law, also the civil, and it is not the Government of Junts pel Si or its members of the CUP. Look, it is well known that the competence of the Generalitat in civil law corresponds to the preservation, modification and development of Catalonia's own civil law, which has a great tradition, I insist, Catalonia's own civil law, which has a great tradition, but not with the creation of an ex novo civil law or the creation of a parallel framework of legal-private relations between Catalan citizens different from that which governs the citizens of the rest of Spain or of the European Union, an absolutely different framework. No, that is not the case, it is expressly stated by the Constitutional Court, clarifying the concepts contained in the Statute. I know you don't mind, I'll say it again, but the law, fortunately, is applied by the judges. And as far as the technical part is concerned, yes, much work can be done to improve Catalan civil law and thus improve the lives of Catalans. And the first way to do that, rather than developing a mere repository of legal figures, the majority without any tradition in Catalonia, is to promote the application and knowledge of Catalonia's civil law by all legal actors. And that you have not done, and what you have done, of course, have not succeeded; because some sectors, yes, but, of course, in the daily application, no, it is not so. Because they can do all the civil codes they want, but if people don't know Catalonia's civil law, it's useless. And even worse, even worse than this is that, if you make rules that are not in accordance with the rest of the legal system, or that are inconsistent, or that do not respond to social reality – because civil law has to respond to social reality – judges will not apply them and will not serve anything. In this law they regulate, among other things, the bases of the sale, which is not an autonomous figure proper to Catalan civil law; they regulate in a different way other contracts that in common civil law are perfectly regulated and that do not generate controversy; they introduce forecasts on aspects that in the practice of private law had not been the subject of discussion, and therefore oblige to make express contractual forecasts about them. In short, many aspects generate bureaucratization of activity among individuals. Because one thing has to be clarified, even at the end of my speech: civil law is the one that regulates relations between citizens, not relations between citizens and their administration, not relations between citizens and companies where they work; it is the one that regulates relations between citizens, and it has to make life easier for them. It can be understood, and I believe that it is in fact advisable, that business relations be regulated and controlled, especially those of businesses with consumers, but those of citizens with each other to introduce more regulation and, therefore, less freedom, that is not, except in areas where a public interest is obviously involved, such as family law, inheritance, etc. They exercise these powers in the field of consumption. they control large companies and what they do with their customers, who have sanctioning capacity, they exercise when there are abuses, but they do not interfere in the houses, in the lives of people, introducing greater regulation and in a line, moreover, contrary to that which the European Union defends, of harmonising these relations. Look, the true tradition and the true principles of Catalan civil law are in the freedom of citizens, and we ask you to respect those principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.113.0	Next, the words of Ms. Rosa Maria Ibarra, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.114.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Members and Members, my intervention could be very short, as long as you need to hand over 'but the intervention that my group companion, Ferran Pedret, did in this room just over a year ago. And it's that the object of that debate is really the same as what we finish today; and when I say the same thing in literal terms. So much so, Counselor, that they have not even bothered to change the date of entry into force of the code of the free sisè, of this Civil Code that we are debating today, and still appears the date of the 1st generation of 2016, date that, obviously, we have already passed. He said that I could refer to the intervention that our group did at that time, and I will do so in a few words, such as celebrating that we are taking a step further towards the completion of this Civil Code of Catalonia. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has always been a collaborator in the development of the Catalan civil law. And, therefore, it will give support, as it did in the previous debate, to the processing of the Civil Code's Free Book Project and, therefore, reject the appeal to the totality presented by the PP, because we do not share the arguments on which it is based. We must re-express them, in this sense, our broad point of view as to the possibility of regulating in civil matters that this Parliament has, as both the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy of 79 and 2006 attribute to the Generality competitions in areas that affect economic relations and have an impact on binding and contractual legal obligations. Restrictive viewing in a changing environment, as well as legal relationships between private individuals, would lead us to the stagnation of our right, and, therefore, would not be a useful tool for responding to the needs of Catalans and Catalans. But, going into the analysis of this book if and therefore taking a step further in the past debate and taking advantage of – yes – the appearances that there was, we have to say that we find that this book only regulates the second title, the relation to the different contractual types; the first title and the third title are only listed. The first title, relating to the general provisions, and the third title, relating to the non-contractual sources of the obligations, was left to be regulated. Some of the people who appeared in the last legislature have already given it: it began with the special part and it has become obvious or the general part has been parked. This implies that we will have a regulation on the sale when we do not yet have a regulation on the general contract theory in Catalonia. Don't you think, counselor, that we started the house on the roof? In the effective application of these standards that we are debating today, will we not miss the reunions that must be found in the fundamental concepts of a general theory? While there are no rules, they are not regulated in this book these aspects that I gave them, they must continue to apply the contents in the Spanish Civil Code. We understand that he wanted to do so out of prudence, to avoid debate about the constitutionality or not of this book. They do not want to enter into the discussion about the abst of competitions, the exclusive competence of the State, referring to the bases of contractual relations. That was the decision the previous government made when it presented to this Parliament the draft of the Sisè book, exactly as they presented us today, and that was also the decision of the current government, a prudent decision. Do not forget to surprise us, therefore, interventions like those of the councillor today, who spoke of the creation of state structures, or those of the deputy Lluís Llach in the last plenary – I believe that the representative of Ciutadan has also made reference to it – when discussing the CUP's motion on the historical moment said – and I quote textually –: "The councillor of Justicia has sent to this Parliament the draft law of the Catalan Civil Code's sysège with the objective of being able to exercise all the powers in this field, replacing the Spanish law in this matter. And that's future and also day by day. Allow me to use a very colloquial and legal expression, but I would tell you that you want to make a big deal out of us. Which Spanish law will we replace when we talk about the general contract theory and the non-contractual fonts of obligations, when we did not dare to regulate these matters? We're not criticizing prudence, but we don't want to believe that this bill is a step closer to building a future Catalan republic or a state structure, when in reality what we're doing is developing those things that our State already recognizes us. In another order of things, in the debate on the whole of last parliamentary term we were able to manifest and question them – like other groups in the chamber – the urgent processing they adopted in order to approve this project before the end of the parliamentary term. Finally it was not achieved, at the end of the legislature; when the legislatures last so little – and this is already beginning to be usual – then these things happen. But still, a lot of work was done. It was possible to listen to all the appearances of those legal operators and experts in the subject matter that the different groups asked for. Taking advantage of the advent, therefore, I would like to thank all of you for your great involvement and your contributions, from a high technical and legal level. That is why we are still surprised that, having the opportunity to rewrite this project, improving it before entering the parliamentary process, there has been no incorporation of the contributions, nor just the references to, let's say, styling, genera, eh? This, in one of the contributions that had been made to the interventions, was pointed out. He gave the company Pedret on that occasion that nothing about what it is is lost and that I am sure that the pocket sliced up at the moment would remain in the bagatge of the government and of the parliamentary groups. Now, as I said, this piece of paper has not been reflected in the work we are doing again today, because, as I said, we are being presented with a project that is in turn the one that we were presented with in 2015. As there are no new appearances on this occasion, we trust that it is in the process of issues when it is possible to incorporate those contributions that help us to make a better document, which must be applied in such an important environment. We have already announced that the Socialist Group will be presenting reports. We have doubts, and we have already expressed them, in rescission for injury; also on the subject of the possible non-determination of the price in the sale, they refer it to other purchases in comparable circumstances; in specific contracts, such as contracts, referring to the duration or the privileges given to public administrations with the possibility of substituting the object of the contract; or they do not include in that book figures such as the dead book, which we understand that, by consistency, they should be there; or by entering the sale in a letter of thanks, but, in turn, by not regulating in this book the right to redeem that they are still in another book, or, lastly, in a final arrangement that modifies articles from other books of the Civil Code which they are obliged to rescind. I don't want to go any further. Reiterating our willingness to work for a text that is more than willing to complete this Catalan Civil Code, all the voids that we have shown, therefore, that it is a good tool not only for the Catalan legal operators, but also for the Catalan and Catalan communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.115.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.116.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Counselor, I would like to begin by imposing an obligation on me and asking modestly for other spokespersons who, if they can, also do so: we must try to avoid that..., a transcendent debate like this turning it into a simplistic debate between those who see structures of state at each canton or those who see secessionist maneuvers every morning. I'm not saying, the former spokesman for the Republican Left of Catalonia, Mr. Pere Aragonès, with these same words a year ago. Or did my friend Salvador Milà say it in another way that is different, but very clear: this would be an interesting debate, but it is abhorrent if we live in a normal country. And we have to do everything we can so that the debate is normal. And I have to tell him that his intervention – which I liked – destroyed him in the end, counselor. It doesn't – it doesn't – call the state structures, because you know that this debate about the civil code book should be..., we could, we should be doing the same even though you're not in a state structure claim. So help us, please, that it is the one who has the greatest obligation, to make a debate about what it touches and not about smoke, which is legitimate but does not help. From this point of view, tell him that we are all clear..., and I think that this is an aspect that we share the whole chamber, we agree with the existence of the civil right in Catalonia – and it is worth highlighting – that it is not a subsidiary of the common civil right in Spain, that it is neither a folkloric phenomenon nor an old thing to be preserved in a museum, that it is not the result of a secessionist manoeuvring, that, in short, it is a civil right that is different from a society that has built it, and that, together with its language and culture, it is not the result of a secessionist manoeuvring, that, in fact, it is not the result of a society that has built it, but it is different from the society; it is the society that has been born, with its own name, with its own name, and with its own name, with its own name. I want to claim that civil law, from its origins, has a strong political and social component. It is no longer the only right of the owners; today it affects the cent_per_cent of the population and expressed in legal terms power relations between social sectors, dominant values, and even important social conflicts between their stages – some call them social classes. Just remember, for example, important moments in our history such as the revolts of remorse against misuses in the land-ownership and exploitation relations of the medieval era, or the struggle of the rabassaries, or today, much more current, the conflict that exists in our society around the right to the property that should have a social use and not have it on many occasions, and the right of people to have a habitat, which is less common – the struggles of the PAH also expressed this reality in relation to civil law. That's why – that's why – from the point of view..., we consider the civil right, everything, the català, as very dynamic, because it comes from these social relationships. Perhaps this is why the constitutional legislator, in his article 149, when establishing the exclusive competence of the State in relation to civil law, clearly stated that the ability of the autonomous communities to preserve, modify and develop, is not merely to preserve. And it is with this very feeling that Article 129 of the Statute of Autonomy regulates it. And, no doubt, this is a legal conflict that can't be diminished, but that we have to resolve it with those terms. The Constitution does not establish for autonomous communities that have a rule... that have a civil right, that have a foral right..., does not establish self-conservation capacity; it also establishes the ability to regulate and adapt, and this is what I believe, modestly, that we have been doing during all these years to adapt to social reality. This evidence, in which I think we agree a lot, and if we can keep it, is what has allowed an important process since the eighties, in which a lot of outstanding people participated, from outside and inside Parliament. I would like here to recognize the work of people like Francesc Casares Potau, friend and master, of the Socialist Group, or of people like Salvador Milà, and many others, eh? I quote those who are more clean to me. In this sense, it is worth remembering that in Catalan civil law matters nothing began with the Constitution and things ended with it. We don't follow all those adamists from this point of view. The debate promoted by the speech to the totality of the PP expresses an existing conflict, which cannot be denied, and is the way to hear Article 129 of the Statute or 149.1.8 of the Constitution, but it also expresses a way to hear this concept of market unity as an absolute value that can do it all. For some, for the Popular Party, it is only possible to preserve the Catalan right of matter almost fossilized. For others, like Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, Catalonia has recognized the right to maintain and update the civil right in accordance with the company's own evolution. That's why we disagree with the issue raised by the People's Party, but we wouldn't easily disqualify it; we want to discuss with them in the process of issues the content of this issue and its issues. That is why we should not amplify the discrepancy, because if we disagree with the service of setting up secessionist structures in which some of you, on one side and on the other, find it very comfortable, we do a weak favor to the Catalan civil right, even from the perspective of those we defend today the existence of this book. Please, let's make a rigorous debate; that I don't say I haven't been, so far, but let's try to abstract it. I already know that there is another debate, but we don't sweep it all away; it doesn't always have to be a thing between Tires and Trojans; it can be a debate with more rigour. We are ahead of the debate that always appears – always – around the concept of market unity. For some, the market is an absolute god and the market unit almost, almost is Article 1 of the Constitution, which is above anything else. So, excuse me, but this is an absolutely chronic view; talking about a market unit identified with the national state, whether Spanish or German, at these times is a ukronia. Certainly, in the same way that you identify yourself with sovereignty. In this sense, you assemble like a drop of water, one another. The question that you have to answer in this Parliament is: can Catalonia have its own regulation of the law of obligations and contracts? And our answer is: yes, it is possible; Catalunya it is possible. We have the proof in the contracts of conreu of year 34; in the termination of the sale for ultra dimidium injury, which, as it does not give us time, one day we will explain it– everyone knows about the chamber, but goes –; or the sale to letter of thanks; or the modern legislation in favor of consumers and users in application of the Community law. But I have an argument, yet I think that for our group it is more important: we need to give a treatment to the Catalan civil right, integrated and complete – integrated and complete – ; it did not feel that it had stayed in this issue and left real emptiness. And in this sense it is essential to address obligations and contracts as well. In an artificially different way and compared to the Spanish right, the Spanish civil right? No, no, So we copy the Spanish civil law of 1889 in an erroneous way and in some cases harm it? Neither do you. So we don't take advantage of the opportunity to act and update the regulation of obligations and contracts to the current reality? Home, it would be a lost opportunity that we can't afford, from my point of view. And we have an opportunity, which is to do it in the framework of the European private law. That is to say, the point of finding this conflict that we are here, as in many other things of the conflicts that are now arising between Catalonia and Spain, have a natural space, which is to collect the good and better of European initiatives that promote common bases in the field of contractual relations. It is here, in the common framework of the European Treaties, of the directives and economic relations of the European Union, that we can find the fit and balance between 149.1.8 of the Constitution and Article 129 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia ; a sense of doubt, ensuring that the bases of contractual obligations are established in the sphere of competence of the State, which you have not denied, and that is why you have left it out of the perspective of this draft law. It cannot be said that Catalonia has no specific standards in the field of the most diverse contracts, it cannot say that, no, no, no; it does not respond to historical evidence, we have infinite cases. It's true, it's true that the tradition of Catalan civil law gives a greater weight to family law and inheritance, which is far superior, but it's not true that there was no proper regulation of contract obligations – and it appeared here. This minor development cannot be the excuse. We are in favour of allowing ourselves to move, and that is why we will therefore vote against this motion to the whole of the People's Party. We want to thank the work of the Committee on Codification of Catalonia, of the Observers of the Private Right and of so many people that from different positions, Mr. Counselor..., because not all notaries think the same, fortunately, if not, it would be serious, huh? , from that perspective. And we want – we want – to have an opportunity to get to the bottom of the issue. We are against any attempt to limit, subordinate, reduce or freeze our Catalan civil rights. I believe, modestly, sincerely, that the PP has not been able to identify that draft law which it considers to conflict with the Spanish Civil Code's contracts and obligations. But, in any case, this is something that we can be discussing at the time, because, ultimately, I also agree that legal certainty must be given to the citizen, but with another approach that perhaps you do not share and may coincide with some member of the majority of Juntes for the Yes. The purpose of this title is, once and for all, to improve this Catalan Civil Code in order to put it to the service of a more just situation in the relations between individuals in which the real equality is effective, and not strictly formal, and some of the barbarities that are being given today in the relationship between individuals, between owners and people, for example, that access to housing. I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.117.0	Mr. Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.118.0	...I'm done, I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.119.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.120.0	I'm done, Madam President. That objective I think is what we all have to have. From this point of view, I was planning to put some things that we want to change; we'll say that at the moment. Counselor, ask them one thing. Please, for a rigorous debate, for the benefit of the Catalan Civil Code, the institutions of Catalonia and the citizenry, let us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.121.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.122.0	... the state structures and let's leave the secession to another side; we make the debate that it touches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.123.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.124.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, for us, this bill – and for a change – generates a certain contradiction that I will try to expose, surely, long before exhausting the time it takes. For one band, we are clear that any Catalan civil law instrument is important, it has the importance for us that the civil law is appropriate, in the sense that it disables the New Plant Decree, and above all because it is an exercise in the recovery of sovereignty, of legal sovereignty, in this case. We think that we have regained sovereignty in the area of civil law, in an area where we have made gegant passes and where, like the country, we have been pioneers in comparison to state civil law, right? , as, for example, in the regulation of party pairs or in shared custody, therefore, it is a transcendental fact. It's an expressly linked fact, too, to the idea of sovereignty. In this sense I can not share the words of the spokesman of Yes that is Pot, which preceded me, in this, always, I try, right? , to try to stay on the sidelines of structural debates, right? And why... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let's talk – let's talk. And why do we say that? – maybe when you said it, you'll understand why I said it. Because, my dear, the Constitutional Court, with the particular vote of Encarna Roca and of the other Catalan magistrate, annulled the regulation of pairs of facts that had been made by this Parliament and made it difficult for Catalan pairs of facts to access the widow's pension. And you, before that, you, your group and all your pleas must have a position – we must have a position – on whether or not we want to abide by this Constitutional Court which is dedicated to eliminating the exercise of the sovereignty of this Parliament. Because it will be superior and exercise sovereignty, beyond bringing it into a samarreta, it means, precisely, that they do not owe us any other power. And this is what we want you to do in this Parliament, not just with the civil right, but also with the civil right. That is to say that they do not owe us any power and that they do not owe us to whom the Constitutional Court tells us. And you, before that, have to take part and say whether you want to be on the side of the Constitutional Court when you detail the widowhood pensions of Catalan couples or whether you want to be on the side of Catalan civil law. Thus, in this sense, there are no third positions: Catalan sovereignty or the sovereignty of the Constitutional Court. And this Catalan sovereignty, we exercise it in this civil code book, with which..., I will now explain what our position is with regard to civil law institutions, which, to contradict what the citizen spokesman has said – is one of the advantages that you have to talk about, practically, as a group – they are not institutions that the people of this country do not know or that today they are in total disuse. What we are nets of masovers value the vigor of the institution of the masovery. Why not? It is a contract that is perfectly in use, today applied to the aspect of urban masoveria; an alternative way, also, to access the use of housing. Therefore, we do not come to the Civil Code of Catalonia as if it were an antique or as if it were a memory of the past, but we use it as an instrument to transform and as an instrument, precisely, to adapt it to reality, with institutions that, I know hard, but do not exist in the Spanish Civil Code of 1881. Therefore, we agree with this exercise of sovereignty. We agree, moreover, with the way the Government has put it, in the sense that we do not only regulate these historical institutions, but that we exercise full sovereignty and go beyond what is said in Article 149 of the Constitution. In this we would give the reason, even though it remains anecdotically, to the People's Party. We think that it is good that the content of Article 149 is overflowing and that it is not strictly governed by the civil law, but that it is a complete replacement, and that Catalonia is once again ruled by the Spanish Civil Code of 1881. And why do we think that? So, because we insist on the fact that this is a sovereign exercise, and we claim the sovereignty of this Parliament. Now, said that, and said, therefore, that we will vote in favour of its processing, we must also say that the other aspect of the contradiction, right? So what do we want to put on the table, so we think that the government's project is overly neutral in relation to the economic system and the legal system that derives from this economic system, right? Think, for example, of the way in which the purchase contract is regulated. We do think we should introduce considerations about asymmetry, don't we? I mean, it's obvious that we can't go on... – and in this sense in the words of the Si spokesman that is Pot, right? – we cannot continue working as if all the benefits are at the same level or as if these benefits that are of primary need, such as housing, so we treat them, or we understand that the seller and buyer is always found, necessary, in the same conditions of equality. In this sense, we think that there are situations of asymmetry that this crisis-stage has put us on the table, and that we need to build dics of containment to this saving capitalism, and one of these dics can be, precisely, by putting the regulation, through other formulas, of the institution of the purchase when I have to see with first-needs as housing. We are aware that the Consumer Code, that the administrative regulations on housing, that 24/15 go in this direction, but we think that all this must be regulated, also, in the Civil Code, because those we operate in front of the courts we are aware that, in the end, when it comes to settling a complaint, the legislation they have in the court is civil legislation. That's it. And, therefore, all the activity that we want to set up to protect the rights of the fevers, of this economic system, to avoid this neutrality and to put ourselves in the service of justice, understand justice as a way of correcting inequality, so, we, we, we, must introduce it, all of this, also, into the Civil Code, and, therefore, we must matify and examine, and we will do so, this project that is presented today. To finish, say that..., the counselor said – and with this we do not agree – that with this book the regulation of the Civil Code of Catalonia is complete. This would be correct if we stick to the autonomous view that it was, therefore, in 2000, when the drafting of this Civil Code was started; but, to us, it seems to us that at the moment when we find ourselves, in the construction of the Catalan Republic, we cannot say that the regulation of the Civil Code ends with this free Sisè. And, therefore, we place the government to begin working on the civil code set. A book set, for example, that it could begin to collect all those aspects that remain with us and that today have reserved for the State, such as, for example, nationality in the future Catalan Republic. Yes, because we think, too, that the writing and preparation of this book may be an opportunity to combat the racist and "connononic" formula with which the Spanish State and all the constitutionalist bench, in this sense, that the harvest, regulates the institution of nationality. An institution that hasn't changed very much when they ruled the blaus or when they ruled the reds, because it practically remained intact. An institution, that of nationality, that works, or that we should make it not work by linking it to marriage with a national, or coming from an old colony, or that values that a stranger knows castle but does not values that català knows, or that is doing a general culture examination asking the names of Spanish infants. To us, all these are things that seem to us to solve the problems of the citizens, they are things that we think we need to go out of our way. And so, so, you have this book on its head seven, eight, and the coming ones, forward with the book six.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.125.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word Mr. Jordi Orobig, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.126.0	Well, thank you very much, Madam President. Councillor, Councillor Mundó, Members, Members..., well, in the first place, I would like to start with a previa and it is asking for his indulgence as it is the first time that I am headed to this chamber from this Faristol, and, also, I will be allowed to take the right to give thanks, in this case, to my parliamentary group, to the political formations which form part of it and also to the independents who honour us with their presence to our lists, for the fact that I have delegated the confidence to defend, in this case, before this plenary, the convenience of the processing of the book of the Civil Code of Catalonia. God forbid, Counselor, huh? We could say that this debate has started a lot with the forms, but as far as the contents are concerned, we have listened to some disqualifications that respect the text quite important, that I understand that they are completely unjustified and, thus, that the references that have been made respect for the Councillor's manifestations are unjustified. Because I think he did explain and put the emphasis that this Civil Code has a direct impact on people's lives and, therefore, its objective is to simplify their daily lives and the relationships that occur in the framework of legal relationships between citizens. I believe, in fact, that, by the Councillor's intervention, which he has done so, in a schematic way explaining what is the order of this civil code, as well as by the Councillor's intervention, and in the intervention of the rest of the spokesman, we would have a sufficiently broad knowledge of what is what is going to be regulated, what is what is going to be presented for its processing and, if so, how was it intended, in this case for the socialist spokesman, through parliamentary processing, through papers, which are the possibilities given to us by these standards, I insist, in order to improve the quality of life of all our citizens. From this point of view, talking about the contract of sale..., it is obvious that we are talking about a nuclear contract, it is the most important legal negotiation in the private sphere, and that it is logical that from this point of view, a country like ours, which has the aspiration of a national fullness, pretend to have in a normal way all that civil legislation that, as we have said before, has to do with the ordinary traffic, with the legal negotiations that they have to deal with between the parties. Therefore, as no one has referred to it, I will do so, even if it is in a short way, and what we come to say is that, with this book if what we regulate is the purchase and exchange, the modification and incorporation of regulated contracts into special laws and the replacement of the Compilation of the Civil Law of Catalonia, according to the provision made in Article 3f of Law 29/2002, which is the first law of the Civil Code of Catalonia. We understand that we need to put emphasis on this mechanism, replacing it, as has already been warned by some of the spokespersons who have previously intervened, and as long as we are accustomed to all these judicial actions involving suspensions and annulments by way of appeal to the Constitutional Court, that this, I insist, substitution mechanism is important in place of the derogation, as we would find ourselves with an absolute lack of standards governing, in this case, our civil law. The regulation of the purchase exceeds obsolete models, such as the one of the Commercial Code, and, therefore, I deny the major. It also surpasses that of the Civil Code and, therefore, what does not make this book if it is to be inspired by the Spanish Civil Code of 1889, but rather that it surpasses, in much, incorporating the construction of the European private right of contracts, making already a transposition of community directives to which everyone knows that the Spanish State is not well accustomed. Tanmateix, it regulates the right of information, incorporating a basic directive of the European contract law model, in favour of the buyer, which increases contractual transparency. It regulates, specifically, the payment on sale, implementing the general rule of risk transmission at the time of the payment of the good or documents that the representative represents. The criteria for compliance, introduced for the European Parliament's Directive 1999/44, are introduced, a new transposition of Community directives which, I insist, the Spanish State is known for its lack of compliments. In this case, on certain aspects of the sale and guarantees of consumer benefits. On the need to express non-conformity at the time of delivery and in the first six months of the purchase of consumer goods, at the establishment of a short two-year term of responsibility for non-conformity, saving the cases in which it results from rights or claims of third parties, assumed in which it has a new regulation that replaces the traditional one in the matter of avoidance. The right to preserve the good, because of the buyer who pretends to reject it for lack of compliance. A unitary regulation of the remittances, making those who are not incompatible are accumulative between themselves, and, in any case, they are with the compensation of the damage actually caused, and setting a three-year term for its extinction. A new regulation of unfair advantage, in the subjective sphere, to avoid abuse, maintaining and generalizing the old doctrine of laesium enormous by the assumption of great disequilibrium of performance. The establishment of a rescission action, which can only be waived after the conclusion of the contract, is that the legitimate party may ask the court for the adaptation of this contract. For the sale of real estate, the possibility of withdrawal is established for lack of financing of the price for third parties when the contract has made provision for compliance. The regulation is about a fact, controversial many times, the surface of the immovable as in principle to avoid controversy about it. The regulation of the purchase with thank-you card and the right to redeem as the preferred acquisition right mode of voluntary character. The regulation of the swap contract, as opposed to the termination of the estate to a future construction change, follows the termination of land or urban development. The incorporation into the standard and, therefore, into the Catalan Civil Code, of contractual types hitherto regulated by special legislation, such as those of periodic pensions, the gathering of large persons, the cessation of property or of building to future construction changes, integration contracts, contracts of contract of contract. A regulation on the contracts they have to deal with the agricultural world and, among them: the contract of contract of contract or rustic lease, partnership and masoveria; the contract of custody of the territory, the contract of lease of pastures. The regulation of random contracts: rape and a new food contract. Cooperation and integration contracts. The financing and guarantee contracts; the census contract as an alternative to the loan; and, as I have already said to the principle, it respects the derogation from the Compilation, it goes without saying, as I have already said, for an elementary principle of prudence for substitution in place of the derogation. Finally, and as far as the standards are concerned, this legislation will not apply to contracts concluded prior to their entry into force, as always, the Government and Parliament of Catalonia will, as serious countries do, for legal certainty as a fundamental element for believing in a country. At this point, I agree with the spokesman, in this case, from Ciutadans, that any intervention on this subject can have a technical perspective, that it is the one that we have come to explain so far, that I think we have told in an extensive way all the contents of this book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, that, in short, I think it is the one that they intend to listen to the citizens of us, because if we come here to say that we are going through a law and not the day of what, we are only political debates without being able to know what it is that we are going to approve, in this case, of the plenary of the Parliament of Catalonia. But, for me, in this case, and as the Councillor has explained to the principle of his intervention, it is an honor to have to deal with, respect this free sysè, as what makes it complete our civil system, our civil law system. We are all aware that in this legislature – and so it has been explained – there are three fundamental elements or three pillars on which the future Catalan state is vertebrae. One of the full Catalan social protection law, namely, the law of the social security of the Catalan State; the law of the Catalan tax administration, i.e., the law of the own history, and the law of the Catalan legal system, i.e., the law of legal transition. All of them, I insist, the pillars of the future Catalan state. But it is not less certain that, with the book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, as a key back to civil law, we assume the fullness in the regulatory regulation of legal relations in this area, and we thus assume the regulatory integrity, which equates us to that which we have often claimed, that is, to be a normal country. For this reason, Councillor Mundó, the congratulations for the diligence with which his task from the government ended, promote this bill, giving a new step in the compliment that we see from the government as well as from the parliament, of the mandate rejected on 27 September by Catalans. Here and now, with this bill of law, that of the libre sisè of the Civil Code of Catalonia, we give the definite step to pass the page of an infamy that has its origin more than three hundred years ago when, through the decree of New Plant, dictated by Philip V on October 7, 1715, the Catalan constitutions and institutions are abolished, and it is left in residual way, probably more desirous in the regulation than in respect of our birth, the civil law. It survives part of the Catalan right, I insist, probably more out of desire than out of respect, but a right without institutions than the actualization or renewal is dead by definition. So I went after the events of 1714 and so I went back to 1938, when the Franco regime abolished...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.127.0	Mr. Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.128.0	... – I'm done, Madam President – the State of Nuria and the legislative task of the Parliament of Catalonia and the Court of Cassation mediating the law of 8 September 1938. Because yes, gentlemen, Catalonia has a legal, political and parliamentary millenary tradition, as expressed in its day Pau Casals before the UN General Assembly. And to think that we have to listen in this Parliament that the existence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.129.0	Mr. Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.130.0	...of this institution is given to the Spanish Constitution... For all these facts, logically, and as long as we understand that there are no reasons why you prosper, the challenge to the totality, from the Parliamentary Group of Joints for the Yes... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone to the deputy and he continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.131.0	I can feel it. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. Call it a vote. Why ask me the word, Mr. Coscubala?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.132.0	In the use of the right recognised by Article 85 of the Rules, contradictory allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.133.0	Okay, he's 30 seconds old.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.134.0	Well, thank you very much. His intervention, friend Benet Salellas, dedicated him in a very important part to our group, to enter into an artificial controversy with our group. We are pleased that on such an important subject, we have had time to debate the totality of the PP or the Civil Code in order to refer to us, but how it has artificially done so I would like to make it clear. In our words, except for the use of very large pins, let us say that we have maintained fairness in this debate; we have given all our support to this issue. At all events, I ask my friend Benet Salellas that I don't stop doing it, that I always quote us in his interventions, we would be grateful because we like to talk about ourselves, even when it's okay. Thank you very much. [[Remove from sight and take a long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.135.0	The vote's on. Votes in favour of the statement submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. In favour? [[Widow's remorse.]] Don't you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] What? I forgive, I forgive, I forgive..., we vote for totality – I forgive. We vote for the speech to the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. In favour, 10; against, 97; abstentions, 23. As long as the ejection to the full return of the bill has been rejected, this initiative continues its processing. [[Greetings.]] [[Condol demonstration for victims of the shipwreck of April 18 in the Mediterranean]] And then, they ask us to keep a minute of silence in memory of the more than four hundred people who died in the Mediterranean on the 18th of April when they were trying to reach the costs of Europe. A new tragedy that we cannot ignore, that shames us as Europeans. Community institutions and states complying with the European Union must take the necessary measures to put an end to the repeated shipwrecks of vessels full of people fleeing their countries, people who only seek the opportunity of a better life. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.136.0	Next, let's move to the next point in the order of the day, which is the number four point. [[Climate Change Law Project (totality debate)]] [[200-00001/11]] It's the totality debate on the Climate Change Bill. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative, on behalf of the Government of the Generality, is presented by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability. [[Widow's remorse.]] They ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence, please, to continue the session. [[Pause.]] Counselor, when he wants... - when he wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.137.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Councillors, Members of Parliament... also thank the presence of the Secretariat of Environment and Sustainability, the Director General of Environmental Quality and members of the Office of Climate Change. I am honoured, on behalf of the Government, to present this first law approved by the current Government of Catalonia: the law of climate change. A law of the country, a law of the state, a law that places Catalonia in a position of leadership in a matter that asks us all. When I say to everyone, I mean all humanity, humanity with capital. It is obvious that today the climate change is one of the great challenges that we must be able to face this 21st century. The scientific and international community, through the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, has repeatedly reiterated that this climate change is unquestionable. It is provoked by the action of being human and its consequences are clearly visible and, consequently, can act urgently. Last December, in Paris, and for the first time in history, the climate change summit ended with a unanimous agreement to take active action to prevent global warming. This is a truly historical fact, and evidence of how climate change is fully integrated into all government agendas, whether developed, emerging or in development lives, each of which agrees with its responsibilities and capabilities. At that summit in Paris, Catalonia was represented at first level, through the presence of the very honorable President Artur Mas. That was an unequivocal gesture of the compromise that this country has... – it seems to me that the President But there is, before it, represented this feeling widely shared by this chamber–, therefore, the goddess, this was the clearest expression of the compromise of our country, of our birth at this height. A challenge to which the society's joint venture must give response and in a very special way the public powers. The growth and development model followed by the first-world countries, based on consumption, on energy consumption from fossil fuels, often with a high dose of malaise, is neither sustainable in time, nor generalizable to the conjunction of nations of the earth. The warming produced by the increase of gases with winter effects is not to be interpreted only as a change of the medium temperature to the earth, there are also other impacts as profound alterations of other variables, such as rainfall, both in quantity and in distribution; the increase of extreme and even meteorological phenomena; the increase in the scaling and acidification of the oceans and the increase of the sea level; the retreat of ice creams or a greater risk of forest fires. When we talk concretely about Catalonia, when we talk about our country, climate change already has a direct impact on the day-to-day lives of people in this country. The periods of even pronounced affect our agriculture, Conseller Serret; the woods are more likely to burn fires all year. Last year we had circumstances of these characteristics already in Catalonia, forest fires that were produced in times when we were not used to them. Before we talked about poor energy, heat waves have effects on health, especially the most vulnerable people, and also intensifys the effects of poor energy with a greater need for climate. Or in this very Parliament we have also talked about the Ebro Delta, and we have also talked about the subsidence in the Ebro Delta, so that is also very direct, very immediate consequence of this climate change. A pair of data that I would like to share with you: the average annual temperature has already increased by 1.2 degrees compared to 1950, with a average of 0.22 degrees per decade, Catalonia. The precipitation in the 1950-2011 period decreased during the summer seasons by 5.4_per_cent per decade, and the seawater temperature, the first fifty_metres of bottomage, increased to a rate of 0.3 degrees per decade. Impacts on biodiversity, water availability, coastal dynamics, socio-economic sectors such as agriculture or tourism are already identifiable. The climate change is an obvious threat, but paradoxically, it also offers opportunities. Technologies make it possible to make a more efficient use of resources, already following industrial processes, the transport or the extension of renewable energies. These renewable energies, in many cases, are fully competitive, already today, in accordance with conventional ones. There are also new forms of consumption, which dematerialise the economy, with the shared car, proximity consumption or the wide application of ICTs. And they're more a reality than just new businesses, like carbon markets, mobility management, second-generation biofuels, transportation electrification, building with efficiency criteria, or applying technologies to cities, so we've convinced ourselves to name smart cities. We, like the country, have to place ourselves first, first level, and we have to assume this high sense of responsibility, not in relation to our people, not in relation to our country, but in relation to the planet's conjunction. Therefore, we take a step forward with the presentation of this law and with the processing of this law. Parenthesis: Many thanks for not submitting totality statements. It is a law that we will treat with the utmost will to integrate the positions of the various parliamentary groups. It's a starting point for the bill that we're going to submit to your consideration today; we'll get out of it if this non-presence of emena to totality translates into the final process with a unanimous vote. We believe that beyond the ideological sensitivities or the positions of each of the parliamentary groups in relation to the national transition process, if we are able to agree this law with a broad consensus, we will give a very clear message of self-esteem, very clear self-determination to the people of this country and to the rest of the nations around us. Therefore, this step leads us to believe that at these times they are the first territory of the Spanish State that presents an initiative of these characteristics and one of the first countries of southern Europe that presents a law linked to the climate change. Let's take this law to Parliament, so it just puts the emphasis on doing things right. On one side, with mitigation policies: take our share of responsibility, which gives them to the beginning, and thus help to prevent the temperature of the planet from continuing to rise. And, for another band, the second concept – mitigation is the first concept – the second concept that incorporates this discussion around climate change is adaptation, because there are effects that are already there, and we need to take steps to adapt there and be less vulnerable. What is the layout of this law that we want to share with you? The establishment of the norm follows the principles that have guided climate policy in Catalonia for many years. It has been chosen for a model that is based on incentive and complicity, not on obligation and control – I repeat this concept. This is the dilemma that we would like to share with you: to move away from this concept, too often paternalistic, if I may, from obligation and control and move to a concept that puts the emphasis on the responsibility and maturity of our fellow citizens. This idea of repte shared through the concept of incentive and the concept of complicity. For this reason, the set of measures and the instruments present to the law pursue a _framework that makes it easier for companies to move towards a low carbon economy and, as far as their activities with the objectives of the law are concerned, may benefit. That's the basic idea. Thus, another aspect to be noted is the willingness to clearly set the objectives that need to be met, but to leave freedom in how these objectives can be met. In fact, this is a very similar scheme that has already been credited to the agreement, this historic agreement that was produced in Paris. Very quickly, I would also like to share with you what are those key elements, those key aspects, those sectoral and general objectives of the norm. This rule contains the objectives relating to emission reduction policies, which we have already raised from mitigation and adaptation to climate change, and provides for integration into all sectoral policies in public administrations. We give these tools that we must be able to integrate, incorporate, with a transversal sense, all the departments of the Government of Catalonia and also the rest of the administrations that act in our country, in a very clear way the local administrations. Concrete, tangible, measurable objectives for the year 2020 and applying the same criteria for the allocation of efforts established for the European Union to its Member States, a reduction of 25_per_cent for the year 2020 shall be established in accordance with what we set for the year 2005, and 80_per_cent or more for the year 2050. These are the objects, in capital letters, that we plant in this norm. For what it does to adaptation, collect the requirements that must contain the sectoral planning and programming instruments to achieve a good coordination adapted to the new regulatory framework. Mass often, in environmental matters, we incorporate environmental aspects at the end of the process and, obviously, it is very difficult to give these planning instruments all their transformative power. And in this case we need to do it from the first moment, we need to do it from the beginning. It identifies the most relevant aspects of climate change for thirteen socio-economic sectors and natural systems. Before we talked about agriculture, we talked about industry, we talked about tourism, we talked about all these issues. Concretely, the Department of Lands and Sustainability has the skills and responsibilities in planning and implementing Catalonia's climate policies. It is logical that the Environment Department should be responsible for this leadership. And it also reinforces the role of the Interdepartmental Commission on Climate Change, this collegiate organ that has, among other functions, to promote cross-cutting actions between the various departments to reduce emissions of gases with winter effects and to boost its adaptation to impacts. It regulates nature, the purposes and composition of the Català del Clima Council, these elements of new governance that we must be able to incorporate. This is the organisation for the participation of organisations and institutions representing different sectors. Set up – what we say – a mechanism for periodic evaluation of policies developed in mitigation; strengthen this collaboration with the local world, of great importance precisely for its proximity to the city as for the vitality that has demonstrated to Catalonia in the application of energy efficiency policies, cables for climate change. Incorporate measures to apply to the same Administration of the Generality. That is to say, if we ask for this compromise together with the citizens, we as the Administration must be the first to incorporate these commitments. It creates the Climate Fun. We have a difficulty: we have felt a severe disagreement with the Spanish State in the sense that this foundation, let's say, does not share it with the autonomous communities and allocates a lot of resources to everything that is energy pricing. That's not the feeling I should have. And it incorporates a new tax figure, which is the tax on CO2 emissions in tourism and vans. The goal is to encourage changes in environmental behaviour and bet on more sustainable models. This tax will be applied gradually from the year 2018, starting with the most polluting vehicles. We're talking about a relatively low economic impact; this is the idea, we want to encourage, it's not a measure, let's say, of fiscal recovery, but this incentive. These are the basics of this bill we're planting today and here. And, before I finish, Madam President, I just want to thank all the entities, all the organizations that have participated in this process, and in a very concrete way to put in value the work due to the end for the former councillor of Territories and Sustainability, the two former councillors, the councillor Vila and the councillor Recoder, and especially Josep Enric Llebot, the former secretary of Environment and Sustainability, today reconnected with the Creu de Sant Jordi. It is attitudes that transcend this vision that each one of us can take from our country and society to make transcendent, global plans. Today we are talking about sustainability, sustainable development, extending the quality of life to present generations without mortgageing that of future generations. If in some way politics has felt, and is in many ways, leaving our children a better country that is worthy of us as Parliament and worthy of the political action that we owe to the end. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.138.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] Then, since there has been no mention of the totality that has been presented, we shall proceed to the turn of speeches by the parliamentary groups. In the first place, has the word Ms. Lorena Roldán, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.139.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen deputies, deputies, honourable advisers... Well, today we are presented with the second bill of this legislature, a project to fight climate change from Catalonia. Of course, we will support it, because in Citizens we understand that the fight against global warming cannot and should not be delayed any longer, although it is true that action will also have to be taken since Congress, and we hope that all the groups that we have representation there will be able to implement the initiatives that correspond at the state level as soon as possible. It is clear, and there is no doubt that this is a problem that cannot be solved independently, because there is nothing more global than climate change. Experts have been alerting him for years: what seemed like a threat to the future is already a reality. The climate change and its effects are happening – in fact, the counselor has mentioned them –: the global temperature increases; the sea level rises; there is a progressive deglaze of the ice masses, as now the Àrtic; there is damage to the colitis and damage to the food production, even, cold, heat, extreme meteorological phenomena such as hurricanes, changes to the migratory patterns of various animal species and risks to health, among others. And that's the name of the principle. If 2014 was a critical year ago, 2015_has badly overcome all memories. According to data published for NASA and the Administration for the Ocean and the Atmosphere of the United States, together with the British Meteorological Agency, 2015_has been the warmest year since we have records, with an increase in the temperature of up to a degree on pre-industrial levels. Moreover, according to this report, Spain is one of the countries most affected by global warming and conca mediterrania one of the areas that will suffer most in the future. There is no doubt that this rise in temperature is caused by human influence, especially because, in the first place, of emissions from fossil fuels – such as oil and coal – and, in the second place, of net emissions from the change in soil use. It is clear that the world is giving us a warning that we can no longer ignore for longer. Last December, the twenty-first International Climate Change Conference took place in Paris, with the aim of reaching an agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, thereby limiting the global temperature increase to two degrees above pre-industrial levels, an agreement that seems to be signed this Friday by more than one hundred and fifty countries, including Spain, as confirmed by French Environment Minister Ségolène Royal a few days ago; one hundred and fifty countries including the United States, China, Japan, India, Brazil, Australia and most European countries. And it is that this critical situation in which we find ourselves is, as we said, a global challenge. And I repeat worldwide, because climate change does not understand borders or political vetoes. And that is precisely why we are surprised by some of the statements we have read about this bill as a state law. Look, if there's one less state issue, it's precisely this, or maybe, well, they've been thinking, I don't know, putting doors to the air or signs of forbidden passage to emissions. We don't know. Obviously that does not mean that we do not understand that the treatment does not have to be regional, and that is why we are happy to be able to discuss this bill, but the fight against climate change requires collaboration and cooperation, requires working side by side with the Government of Spain; and not only with the Government of Spain, but also at European and global level. We need to establish a common strategic energy transition plan to achieve a model that favours renewables against the use of fossil fuels. For this reason, Citizens are also planning to promote the adoption of a climate change law in the Congress of Deputies and we hope to be able to work together and with Parliament and Congress to develop a common strategy in accordance with the European guidelines and with the United Nations. We also believe that much work will have to be done on this law to make it more ambitious and concrete. We are no longer entitled to declarations of intent or mere objectives, but this law must be a true cross-cutting instrument in the medium and long term, taking into account all sectors involved – environmental groups, industry, society – and providing for mechanisms for cooperation between administrations. Only in this way will we achieve a real reduction in greenhouse gases and the move towards the preferential use of renewable energies. For us the axes on which it is necessary to work are very clear. Firstly, we must encourage the transition to a new energy model where clean renewable energy is favoured. Production of terrestrial and marine wind energy, as well as solar photovoltaics, and the use of geothermal and biomass for household heating and thermal use of industries should be promoted, as well as the development and production of biofuels. Secondly, there is a need to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels, especially in transport. How? By establishing an economy that does not depend on such fuels. We must put an end to absolute dependence on oil. It is necessary to electrify the transport sector and to support us in other technologies, such as hydrogen, gas or the already mentioned biofuels. And this involves encouraging the use of the electric car and making it easier for charging to be accessible on equal terms and at the lowest cost to users. Industrial practices should also be improved through the implementation of energy efficiency measures, both in industry and in transport, and in households. It is also necessary to reduce greenhouse gases also in the domestic sphere, and to promote energy self-consumption through renewable energy. Very important, too, is the fight against the effects of change itself. Biodiversity protection plans need to be put in place, analysing the impact on the most vulnerable species, as well as migratory and behavioural patterns. We must also create education and environmental awareness programmes. Finally, it is essential to promote policies to increase R & D & I investment in projects and technological advances that allow the development of clean energy and waste reduction, projects that are at the same time a tool to boost productivity and employment. Therefore, as we say, and to recapitulate, we need to consistently and stablely regulate policies that affect the climate and include ambitious targets for 2030 and a strategy defined for 2050. And to legislate coherently means to do so in collaboration. We need to work together, because it will only be useful for Catalonia to pass a law on climate change if we go for free and if it does not take into account the rest of Spain, the European Union and the rest of the countries. Because this is a problem that, as I said, I don't know about borders or separatist debates; it's a problem for everyone, and we must all work together. I hope, therefore, that there is this willingness to work together, and we are pleased that the legislative initiative is based in Catalonia. Faced with these measures and laws that seek the best conditions of people's lives, of this age and of future generations, before fears that they matter to all Catalans, always – always – will find us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.140.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.141.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, counsel, deputies, deputies... The climate change, without doubt, is the great challenge we have, not just the Catalans, the conjunction of humanity. The Paris agreements – as Councillor Rull reminded us – are beginning to be – and we share this opinion – clear and concrete steps that must be taken to tackle, from global governance, the essential public and private cooperation to tackle a problem that affects all humanity. I'd like to point out that you haven't seen him for years, huh? , the climate change negationist sector strongly rejected scientific evidence. Today's reality is so clear that few people are going to contradict it. Now, one other thing is that there's... there's an obvious rush to slow down those changes, those things that everyone knows they have to do, that's to say, build a new economic model that's not based on fossil fuels. Counselor, we listened carefully, and we also analyzed the bill. We already expressed it a few weeks ago, also from this Faristol, which for us would not stay to seek the maximum consent to have a good climate change law in Catalonia. I have already announced that we would not accompany you in an attempt to publish or take advantage of this law to seek territorial conflict. And I'm not pathetic, which I won't pose in terms of Catalonia-State, or Catalonia confrontation - the rest of the State. And we don't get eyes on the rings to recognize their leadership if this happens. We will create a parliamentary position, but I also complain about you and the government leading on this issue, because I think that we need to take serious climate policies. From our point of view, the measures envisaged in the current bill are very declarative, well-intentioned – we recognize this – and we believe that it lacks a point of ambition on some issues. He said that, more than analyzing the competitive part – and I say that the proposal that is formulated in the bill will calmly analyze it –, the fact that this proposal that they make to territorialize the obligations of reduction and of the tickets, we believe..., and what he proposes is the creation of a green foundation, that at these times, for which we have seen, is almost all the node of resources transferred to the State. And we think it can be a fool's hair if we're still on this subject. And I'm not saying it because of the competition conflict, but because it's just that there's nothing else to do; because at these times the CO2 trade – which I think is about which you're focusing on this green background – so the price of the tone is gifted, and a few tickets here we'll get to produce, right? We are of the opinion, in the line of many experts, Catalan experts, experts of the rest of the State, that it is necessary to create a fund to promote actions, through formulas of co-financing of specific projects, chosen for their quality, without prior territorialization. Yes, I agree among all in identifying projects, adopting thematic priorities and in their annual selection. If we turn it all into a blind transfer of resources, I think we'll lose the ability to incentivize a law like this to end up producing, huh? That's our feeling. We're missing compromises, clear objectives and quantification of emission reductions in sectors where our space of action and action can be very large, huh? We will present reports in this sense: the sector of the copper industry, agriculture, transport, the residential sector, the industrial sector, where the Government of the Generality has many powers and where many policies can be made. It seems to us that the absence of concrete regulatory measures, huh? Not on the line you were announcing, huh? : "No, no, we don't pose, there, " we don't pose for. No, no, but we have found absence of regulatory measures that follow or that may be facilitators and incentives of some solutions, creators of alternatives, and also, in some cases, limiters of what can be corrected, huh? For example, we have a good opportunity to further regulate the rehabilitation of buildings. Or facilitate integration of unbolted self-consumption solutions into the web. Or microgenerations in rural areas, that is, the positive energy zones that other countries around us, together with France, are already moving forward. Or why don't we just fix and impose a gradual path to the net balance of emissions in industrial areas, hotels, farms? All this can be done by the law. Or why don't we play with different tax incentives? For example, do you agree on IBI trams to give cabuda to joint responsibility? Why don't we determine contract content... in the public contract in climate content? We can do that too. Or why don't we just bet in a more determined way on green infrastructure based on ecological and nature solutions in adaptation strategies? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! , which is a..., we talk a lot about mitigation, but here we have a problem, which we have to over, and we have to start making clear policies and resources, to adapt to this situation that we have. Or why don't we make a clear, round bet from the government of the generality for the electric car? I think we're missing a strategy in this sense. Or why don't we make a more determined bet for transport electrification? We believe, moreover, that we should self-impose an annual reporting obligation on the best in mitigation and adaptation of the government in front of Parliament; even a public debate, why not? , on indicators and priorities. We didn't just hear this triple climate committee that seems to create the law: one of experts; the other, the climate committee and this interdepartmental committee, huh? , after not completing the method of election and leaving it in the hands of the Council Counsellor for the Sustainable Development of the Generality. We believe that we need to separate the functions between Government, whether it is the department that you lead or follow the inter-departmental meeting, and the climate change committee, that we are proposing to be an independent committee, elected by this Parliament, because we believe that the Government is political, reporting on the progress it has made, and the committee has to assess just what the Government is doing. We also believe that the government can introduce a certain confusion between the fight against climate change and the fight against air pollution, which is certain that at a certain point it is found that they are not necessarily the same thing or have different parameters. I repeat that the measures envisaged by the law to us have seemed a little ambitious. Only in the themes of mobility do they appear with a little more strength, huh? because they come with a tax, the tax on CO2 emissions from mechanical traction vehicles, which, even if we agree, we are talking about, because we believe that, as it is written – or as we are at least discussing it, huh? , we want to discuss it –, can end up favoring vehicles with diesel fuel. We don't just see how we recognize measures that favor and strengthen the skills of gatherings to fight the climate change. Well, I could go on, huh? Now, as I said, we will accompany the government in this process, because we want a good climate change law in Catalonia. We believe that credibility is gaining by acting, feeling consistent and establishing a _framework that facilitates the necessary changes. And, besides, it is also necessary, from our point of view – we know our opinion – to achieve a great social complicity, of citizens and citizens, of economic sectors, to work to achieve and agree measures, also of regulatory character. If we can achieve this complicity from all sectors – from all sectors – then I am sure that in the future we can have a law that addresses the objectives pursued by the Government and, as a minimum, our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.142.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.143.0	Thank you, President. He'll advise, counselor, deputies and deputies that you're here today... and it's a shame they're not all there, because I think the issue of climate change is a challenge that we should all be in the chamber. It's also a big deal that Parliament's reprography services aren't working today and couldn't do this copy to DIN A3. [[the speaker shows a full camera]] But they did see all the colors. This is a prediction of the world a few years ago, forty years ago, for William Rees, an environmental scientist from the University of British Columbia, who talks about what would happen with a four-degree increase, because you know that the two-degree increase that COP 21 marked will already be given, even though today it will not be able to absorb more. On this map, you will see that from Paris to the bottom it is almost all quite desert, that the red zones are areas that are flooded by the rise of the sea level. And, therefore, we are talking about a repte, the largest repte we have today as civilization. And, therefore, it is very relevant that we address the issue and approach it with the diagnosis that..., we can share much of the diagnosis made by the counselor. Diagnosis, yes; another thing is solutions. Because today's theme..., it's not so much about the emissions that we have or don't have, but – and you know I always like to teach books – as Naomi Klein says in her latest release, this changes everything – that is capitalism versus climate – the real truth is that we're not talking about carbon dioxide emissions or other contaminants, winter-effect gases; what we're talking about is the model, the capitalist model we're talking about, what we're talking about is this model of growth based on extractivism, this model of energy cream of fossil fuels, and, therefore, we have to change this system that has produced this. Therefore, we need to change..., we need to be very brave, because we need to change many written and unwritten standards of state, trade, big corporations, and above all change this paradigm of unlimited growth and grow up with what puts us all in danger. Therefore, we can do laws, we can change laws, we can do better, but if we want to survive, above all we will have to change thinking patterns, consumption patterns, growth patterns. Therefore, this debate is a debate that, beyond energy, beyond its department, counselor, is a debate of values, of what we want, if we continue with economic growth, with business benefits, or we want to defend life, the intrinsic values of life, because we do not drink oil or eat money; we need air, water, food, we need to maintain ecosystems. That's why, counselor, when you say that you give us opportunities to implement... no, no, it's not that you give us opportunities, the climate change, it's that you put us back before some needy, and therefore either we face it or we won't have a future. Therefore, there is a change of consciousness – you, when diagnosed, said it – but unfortunately, also, the measures that have taken so far have not worked: we have seen the fraction of the international summits, we have seen that we are talking about these issues, there is awareness, but we do not make a decisive impulse to the change of the energetic model, which is one of the causes. We know that this has economic costs, implementing these measures carries great economic costs, but the cost of not applying them, the cost of inaction, is much higher, as they point out. Therefore, we have not presented the message to the totality, because we believe that it is a pioneer law, that it must be fronted and that it is an opportunity, but we do give it that with this law, as it is written, we cannot face it. We need – we need – to improve it, we need to go further, and to go very quickly, in four aspects, basically. The question of the energy model – the energy model we think is a little the great absent of this law, we don't know if it is an oblivion or an absence. The bet for a renewable energy model. Fix Hydrocarbon Tanking Calendars. To go from an energy model that is no longer, that can't be basic..., to the whole question of energy to Pecac, because we all know that Pecac has had many alliances and, moreover, there were many groups that we don't share this vision. Therefore, if we want a model of consensus we have to go further; we have to establish a minimum of 30_percent renewable energy, as at least; we have to go to a neutral Catalonia in CO2. And no, I'm not talking nonsense; other regions of Europe, other subnations have fixed it; for example, the North Brabant – a region of Holland – has fixed it for 2030. Therefore, the debate on energy; reduce the subsidies or eliminate the subsidies to hydrocarbons, because, if not, it is a contradiction, that we are talking about renewables but on the other hand we are financing aid to hydrocarbons. The second aspect. You said: "Practical measures. Home, no; about the indexes that you set for reduction, the law lacks concrete measures, both in reduction, in mitigation and adaptation measures... We will not go here to the discussion about whether we need to reduce 25_per_cent, 30 or 40 – we will do it on the question – and whether we need to do it on the date of 95, 90 or 2005, but we do need to establish intermediate objectives every five years and, above all, these must be binding. Counselor, it cannot be that we are talking about reducing but then, in an article of the law, we say: "Well, let us reduce it, whenever it does not affect and there is a list of exceptions, and one of the exceptions is when it does not affect the Catalan economy and the peppers. Home, therefore, clear that it will affect the economy. And we must prepare ourselves to change this economy. Therefore, we need to put the mechanisms in place so that this model change involves the economy. Therefore, we, all these objectives of reduction, must be able to apply them to sectoral policies. And this is the great third aspect that we want to highlight that we find that it is much better in law. To incorporate emission reduction objectives into sectoral policies, for transport, for industry, because these will serve to guide the establishment of measures. And here, for example, they have made an extensive list in the law, but we find absences, and important absences. And I suppose the Agriculture Adviser will agree with me: there is no fishing. Fishing is one of the themes of the sectoral policies that we have to include. Just like she handled the coast, and more so when we have the issue of vulnerable delta areas. Or the mountain policy. We need to connect energy, climate change and air quality policies, because they are very related areas, and this is done with governance plans with local administrations, which many have a lot of advanced work; do not forget that they have started working from local agendas 21. And you also said: "We do not want to press, we do not want to force. But, well, counselor, there will come a time that will need to be established – as have other laws that are being done in Europe – infringements and sanctions. Because the subject of voluntary agreements, therefore, has not just worked at all. We saw it in a note that sets out its own department: the emissions of Catalan companies under the European CO2 trading regime increase by 6.6_per_cent in 2015. We've increased emissions. Apart from questioning whether the European CO2 emissions trading regime, which was already collapsing in 2013, and which the European Union is thinking of changing, is the best model. Unfortunately, therefore, we will not only be able to move forward with voluntary agreements, as the reality shows us. The whole issue of climate taxation. We cannot finish perverting the principles of "who pollutes pays for" who pays can pollute, because that would be the worst favor we could do ourselves. We're celebrating the CO2 tax, but we're doing papers in this sense because we think it's incomplete, it's missing the whole part... dedicated to more toned goods. The law I believe would have the opportunity, since we are talking about issues in sectoral policies, to deploy, definitively, the whole Eurovignette Directive, to bet more for the electrification of transport. And, especially, if we're talking about emergencies, we don't raise these taxes to 2019 or 2020, because it's an urgent issue. Therefore, it lacks concreteness. And, counselor, a very concrete criticism. You in the 11th addition had a separate relationship with the poor energy. It seems to us to be a very good statement, but what is in poor energy is to complete the Law 24/2015; it is to sign the agreements with the water, light and gas sub-ministrators; it is to sanction the businesses that are incomplete, and to put the batteries in a law that we approved. For all this, we're happy. I'm telling you, we share the diagnosis, we think that we're going to have to improve it a lot among all of us because it's really effective and because the front is so big. And we believe that it is at their hands, in the march of this new country that we want to build, of this process they constitute, that we can face this difficult environmental crisis, that we can face the challenges of climate change, of mitigation, but also the adaptation measures, and transform this economic and energetic system failed to continue living in this small country of the Mediterranean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.144.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mrs. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.145.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, counsel, this draft climate change law that today will begin to be processed in this Parliament is based on the evidence that climate change has a direct correlation with human activity. It is true that there are many studies, reports that support this statement, but so much so that climate change has always occurred on Earth, and today it began long before we humans contaminated its atmosphere. Our planet has been oscillations between cold and temperate periods for about 2 million years, a fact that had already been given in other stages even more preterite. It is obvious that the root cause of climate change is not human species, but natural astronomical factors. Therefore, what is actually being discussed today is whether human pollution can accelerate or not a trend to the scalding that has started about fifteen_ thousand years ago. During the ix and x centuries there was a warm period, such as the present, that allowed the vikings to asolve Islam, Greenland and Canada. At that time, there was no industrial contamination like today's. Or the small age of the gel, a series of big ice cubes, icebergs coming down for the Hebrew and cold between the xiv and the end of the xix. It should be noted that during the nineteenth century Europe was already more than a contaminating century and the climate continued to be extremely cold. Therefore, the direct cause of the re-heating of the segles desè and onze and of the non-crazy fredor of the xix produced by any industrial pollution, it is due to astronomical and planetary causes. The legislation presented to us by the Government summarizes it in a declaration of good intentions. And why am I saying that? So why is there basically two reasons I'd like the counselor to explain to us, right? In the first place, presumably, the objectives of this are mitigation and adaptation. It is to say, for one band, to achieve reduction of gas emissions with winternacle effects, and, for another, the prediction of strategies in the areas most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. I do not know what concrete measures will be taken to create a new tax. I also think that this law is a toast to the sun as to the fact that what we want to do from Catalonia is like a drop in an ocean. We are talking about a global issue that calls for global solutions. It is very good to make statements like President Mas did, when he announced this law, saying that it would be the first to come to southern Europe and would give us – we would donate – to listen to the instruments to face this challenge. Miri, they have one in Andalusia and neither this nor that will give the instruments to face the climate change. This is the vision we have from the People's Party, isn't it? , from this proposal of the Government, which in no case means that we will not work to make a better world, but without deceiving anyone, and that means among our few possibilities. Specific questions of the law. The law sets targets for reducing emissions online with those that mark the European Union for the state, which set a 25_per_cent reduction year 2020 according to the 2005 levels. By 2050, the European Union proposed a reduction of 80_percent of emissions, as at least. I have already said that we are not clear on which concrete measures will be taken to achieve this objective. For adapting to climate change, the law generally defines the requirements for sectoral planning instruments to adapt to this phenomenon. It is clear that we are talking about a phenomenon involving a large number of basic sectors in our lives – agriculture, water, biodiversity, forests, energy, industry, health, waste, infrastructure, housing, transport, etc. – and that the bill will contemplate, but it will be necessary, to listen to all the agents involved so that this law remains as realistic as possible. Therefore, there is an extensive work to listen to a lot of people who, because of the cross-cutting nature of the legislation, will listen to the text that today will have the view of this Parliament. Now, today, the bill we have – and for which I have been able to listen from different sectors – does not even like the ecologists, who claim more concreteness in the plans and an increase in environmental taxation, or those who believe that, before a global phenomenon like this, we need to correct with valid integrity measures for all. The law introduces environmental taxes to discourage polluting practices. The main is a tax on CO2 emissions from tourism and vans that it is intended to come into force gradually between 2018 and 2020. According to the bill, for example, a whole land that emits 235_grams of CO2 per kilometre would have to pay 84_euros per year; in changing conventional tourism, which emits between 120 and 130_grams per kilometre, will pay 5.5_euros. And the question is: why instead of disincentiveing contaminant practices do not encourage practices that do not contaminate? So, because the government has calculated that with this tax it can collect up to 75_million euros; a recap that, together with other taxes, will go to a climate of new creation that will have to be used to finance environmental policies. That's what the law says. And here I'd like to make a short incis, wouldn't I? The text says that a part of this fund will master the inputs obtained from the emission right sub-up of the trading regime of gas emission rights with winternacle effects in terms that agree with the Spanish State. Well, here you'll need to see exactly what they want to say with this question, because it's not clear to us. And I take this opportunity, when I speak of the Spanish State, to remember that Spain is one of the countries that is most working to compliment its international obligations. Proof of this is that Spain has completed the Kyoto Protocol. The parenthesis to take advantage of the occasion to discuss some of the actions of the People's Party respects this issue. Climate projects for the development of projects that generate emissions in sectors such as transport, agriculture or waste; environmental stimulus plans, PIMAs, which encourage low-carbon economic activity and private investment in various areas; the renewal of the commercial vehicle fleet, hotel infrastructure, tractor fleet or trucks and buses; the carbon footprint register; the full route to complement our 2020 diffuse sector emission targets. Specifically, it is about forty-three measures to mitigate, generate labour and economic activity. What else? Mirin, in the assumptions of the State of 2015 the Government first created a presuppositional game for adaptation to climate change in the most vulnerable areas. Well, I close the parentheses and return to Catalan law. The regulations highlight that progress has been made in civic awareness and the assumption of the idea that can be adapted. Still, there are pending assignments that recognize and accept that public powers must serve to encourage the population to change certain life styles. And in this sense it is important to allocate resources to make a task of awareness through awareness campaigns. And there is no clear example of the better management of waste, which increases the recycling taxes that have been obtained in our home. This is a task that has been possible – and I think I should say this – thanks to the joints, which have been heavily committed to recycling, which, of course, when I speak of joints, locals, these, and as this legislation provides, must have a key role in their deployment. Finally, the future climate is uncertain and can be critical of the media that want to impose more desired opinions than well-founded reasoning. In addition, it may be critical of the marketing that engulfs around global warming. Therefore, as the professor of earth sciences and the environment, David Rabada, says, to overcome the paradoxes of climate change and get to the truth that to become good scientists under three essential conditions: that to be humble, objective and, above all, patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.146.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Mireia Boya, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.147.0	Thank you, President. That's right. Mrs. Xandri, you've been disputing Rajoy's cousin, who's in favor of contrasting with scientists and technicians, and world experts, because they're very ridiculous and denying the origin of human factors in climate change. [[Some applause.]] That said, this is the law that comes from the former government, and we already knew it, and that is what is written, and it is written in it. From the time he's been written, there's been a number of causes. We already know that he is here with an exceptional legislature, that I am a pre-constituent legislature, that I am an autonomous legislature, and that therefore there are causes which we cannot admit from the vanguards, and that we are here with a preamble which is autonomous and of submission to the Spanish State, and which seek to re-write, as a councillor, from naut to baish, because, if not, then he will never be the law of the State, he will be subject to what you decide to decide to be the Spanish State, and the Spanish judiciary. Second of all, it was a conference in Paris. Here, at this conference, you'll get a few accords that will be kept to a minimum, won't you? It's object long ago, and that's what we can't allow him to claim that we're transmitting now is still left behind for minimal purposes. And, therefore, what causes you want to change and not to talk about it in 2005, or to talk about it in 1990 as a reference. In the month to the month, cause to set intermial objectives; establish them: every five years, cause to be such a cause, cause to be such; cause to set them at the beginning of the year to be generic and effective. Therefore, we think that we are looking for a complete and profound revision of this Parliament, because it is a text which, from the very beginning, has given up dealing with energy and climate problems in this country. Aura of being very ambitious, and we had a feeling that I was quite a coward. And, in the Commission of My Environment, when it was gone, we got away with improving it and rewriting it from naut to baish. As he says, not concrete objectives, not binding measures, not emission reduction indicators, nor climate change mitigation. We are not talking about decarbonization of this economy. Calerie talk about disinversion of fossil energy sources. Calerie talk about a transition plan for renewable energies. Calerie talking about abandoning was nuclear energy, and deth barrage of centered agusts. Calerie talk about your cause that there was no talk of james in the emissary: decrehension. You know, councilman, what does that word mean? Decrease in ambient conditions. It means clearly betting for a change of economic model in order to mitigate the effects of climate change, without this being the result of economic, monetary and wealth of this country. That's possible, and to many countries they're here. Since you are a pioneer and you are of the state, you would be even if we knew it here. They have to give up eth voluntarism. They're still volunteers here, they're all willful measures. There's no link. You don't know, what do you want me to say to him; that's what he's going to say as soon as he gets his statement of intent. Tà nosati, a climate change law that continues to transform, that remains ambitious to raise causes as to recover it was energy sovereignty; and to say, to recover it was public power of all it was energy production and distribution of this country, and to consider it was energy as a right, as a common good. Let us think of how to abandon nuclear power, let us think of how to create forms of production with fossil energy, but let us also think of concessions of hydroelectric power stations which have been built for years and which can also be adapted to the new model we are building. In the second place, we want a future hundred percent renewable. Dèishen to subsidize is fossil fuels, Dèishen to subsidize was nuclear energy. They can establish a system of taxes that penalizes these causes. Why aren't we here? Tanben service your ramp up weather forecasted to be law. It is essential to speak of self-consumption, to recover was energy sovereignty, but also to disobey the stupid government decree that imposes taxes on the sun. Hey, basic, you were the only way to get back this long-standing sovereignty you've been talking about. We don't like getting emission rights. This is because, scientifically, technically, it has been shown that I am largely ineffective in reducing emissions; quite contrary: this was a naïve speculation of the current capitalist financial markets, which are good ones, even after the consequences of these countries are that they are the right ones to issue, and, therefore, to questions of social justice or of global justice, it was the only cause that there is a very lucrative business of large corporations, and that there is an incentive for financial speculation. We think that even with other options, it was you to help expand the climate alert deth that he speaks. I gave them a lot of raison d'être. Marketed alert, you're holding emission rights are controlled by the Spanish State. As the state law foresees, what measure is controlled by the Ministry of the Environment of the Spanish State. That's not what she's been doing. The need to rethink; for the Spanish State and for the European Union, that I was that fixed is percentages of sale of good Augusti. I did not read an instrument that follows good ness nosati. In fourth place, it seeks better integration of sectoral policies. As I did before, there are objectives, mandatory and still binding regulation measures. And we have to, we have to find sectors that are contaminant and that don't know why she's left behind. Or beri aspectes, of good sector, which are not. We are talking about factories, we are talking about cement plants, we are talking about industry in the agricultural sector, we have not entered. If I had been part of the most contaminant, then I'd advise you now, Conselhera Serret! Why don't you come in here, Tanben? We could speak in the field of waste management; why do we not speak of this progressive barrage of incineration plants? You could give them a lot of good examples, couldn't you? In terms of urbanism, you change your habits, don't you? , it was destruction of timber and agricultural land.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... , that they destroy themselves with urban planning directors, for example, this too and a reduction of deposits that help mitigate climate change. It's a long way to go, and it's a long way to go. In five places, we talk about climate change, and we don't understand why not and to a regime of infringements and sanctions. Why don't you have a lot of them? We don't believe that I'll be the one who pollutes the pay. So, let's just apply it. Eth to contaminate, it's big businesses to contaminate, to pay. And we're only targeting them for climate change mitigation policies. Why not? They're just trying to get ahold of the tax system. Aurien of..., you have a committee of experts who intend to, they're fine. It's the only problem he's got that they're not binding. And we already know how causes are in the country when experts issue reports and end up not serving as rents. If he experimented and asked them he was opinion, year of being binding. E eth great absent: er eco-labeling. Why do we not produce emissions that we would need to produce? This would have a double positive effect: in the first place, the promotion of local products, the encouragement was economic; in the second place, it is serious products of the highest quality and of the highest hyjud value. And then to end, all of this, all of it, is to disarticulate itself, not to be used, for example Article 4, which states that "the objectives of reducing emissions of greenhouse gases will be modifiable as a function of the effects on the Catalan economy. This was all about her, because we already know what's going on in today's country with common interest. Then end, an example. It was two days ago, eth Dutch Parliament decided to ban the sale of diesel cars and petrol from the end of 2025, to encourage the generation of electric vehicles, to reduce the emissions of pollutants in cities, to encourage the local economy. Aguest Parlement thought it might be as good as it was a Dutch Parlement. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.148.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, has the words of Mr Ferran Civit, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.149.0	Good morning, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies and deputies, I came in here, to Parliament, to make a republic, but, if I am here, it is for renewable energies. Therefore, I, this law, as they have commented on the different companies that preceded me, believe it and I want you to shoot forward feel as ambitious as possible. The counselor has said this: it's an open law, it's a starting point, so it's like a sponge law, which we hope to add to it the positions and proposals of all the parties here in the chamber, because we believe that everyone can add to it and we can make the most ambitious law not only in Europe, but in the Western world. And, following the parliamentary tradition – which I see is always here, it's always beginning to quote – I will quote from a classic of contemporary North American literature, which is called Stan Lee, which in a work says an uncle, Ben Parker, says to his nephew Peter Parker : "He who has great power has great responsibility. This is what we have right now here in this debate. And for that, on April 22, one hundred and thirty states of the world will sign the Paris Accord, which was agreed on the past December. The technological changes come from a long time ago, especially since the Industrial Revolution appeared, about two hundred years ago. We've come a lot farther, we've moved faster, we've worked harder, but now we've also contaminated more intensely, faster, and we've come a lot farther. What does that mean? As Boya said about the fact that "it pollutes, pays, maybe even we should go further and not allow it to contaminate but, in doing so, follow the classic principle of the non-harmful prime, which is the fact that it is important not to generate impact. And, maybe, all we have to do here is make a law that measures all these issues that they do and that have consequences around us, all around us, all around us, all of us, all of us, all of us here and outside. Because you have to take into account that we have a 10_million_tonne carbon footprint of CO2 per person, and that's a lot. It is the clearest example of the eco-friendly crush we have on Western society since the Industrial Revolution appeared. And that's all we have to figure out. Because from this 46_per_cent of CO2 that we emit, this 46_per_cent is left in the atmosphere. The rest, not at all, the natural mischiefs are gone. But natural mischiefs, as Hortênsia also said, the oceans, for example, reach a limit and cannot absorb more; therefore, the oceans have reached their limit. We've reached four hundred parts per million CO2 in the atmosphere. This means that we are each time more likely to arrive between 450-500 shares per million, which means two degrees more; two degrees more means a great impact, not just to Catalonia, but to the whole planet. That means..., the two-degree push also means the one-meter push of the sea level. It means, in the case of Catalonia, that we may have to forget everything about skiing and coastal tourism, because it will generate a situation of desertification, of a system of plugs much smaller than we have now and, logically, the economic model we have now, so we may have to go back again if we don't start acting from now on. Because if we do not want to keep the climate of Morocco, we may have to start doing the policies of Denmark, Denmark, Norway, Sweden or Finland. With the current product model we have outsourced the costs of social and environmental impacts. And maybe it's time we started internalizing this, because there's a very clear gap between the economic model and the social and environmental impacts. Because on the whole issue of climate change, as it is said, a traditional fete phrase, isn't it? "Death to all reaches; therefore, climate change affects all of us, and we all need to be involved. We are in a political transition process, in this chamber, but above all we must participate in this energy transition process. We have here a Parliament that will make and present some laws that will take us to a republic, some laws that will have a certain transcendence, but this law that we are talking about now may have a much more important transcendence than we think of ourselves now. Because that's not just for the present generation, it's for the future; it's not just about Catalonia, it's about the world and, in that, I would say that everyone we've exposed here to the chamber agrees with it. We have to move from the model « from the box to the hortet of Francesc Macià, which gave to the beginnings of the past century, to « from the box to the solar photovoltaic plate, or « the jacket – if I may. We need to make a model change. This is all about creating a new model, a new production sector, which is now non-existent here in Catalonia, which is the renewable energy sector; this means more jobs, more skilled jobs and, more importantly, it helps to stop the deindustrialisation model that we are suffering from. But above all, this whole model must be based on energy sovereignty, and energy sovereignty does not mean that we have not only the legislative power over distribution networks – that we want it – but it is not only about having a large central computer, such as the Spanish Electric Network to Alcobendas – that we also want to – but also about taking over the citizenry, about making the whole model that we have now pass through another system, steps through a new paradigm, because the exhaust pipes and the chimneys of factories must become industrial archaeology. That's what it's about. The councillor explained this: this is a proposal from the former government, which has now been brought to the table; therefore, it is a sponge proposal, it is a law that we want everyone to disappear. This is why I want to comment on what has been said in the different interventions. The deputy from Ciutadans commented that this is borderline, that we are a region. So, well, we consider this to be a law of the state, because we believe it, because we want to be, and because we're not a region. We understand that this is a legislative chamber, it is not a parliament; we want to go as far as possible. We believe that, by ambition and by will. For that matter, we will. To Mr. Terrades... totally agree. They're declarative intentions that the law is, so let's make them resolutive. Let's wait for your input, like from the rest of the groups, so let's get it out of the way. What we also expect is that with all the proposals we have a document that is long; now, we also need to bear in mind that, for example, the Finnish law, recently adopted, has seven pages. I mean, we have different models. Now we have a long law; therefore, from this we shall have to do it. And here too – we call on everyone – that we may have to change the concept of "green taxation" or "environmental taxation"; we may be talking about "impact taxation", because otherwise, something that is no good, we give it a label that may not work for us. To Mrs. Grau..., yes, we may have to change the product model, but this, as you know, is not the reason for this law; therefore, it will be a reason to debate, perhaps, in another parliamentary initiative. He was talking about the model, which if it has to be low or zero in carbon; therefore, logically, it will have to be null. And maybe we should just let the issue of the impact and the CO2 that we emit, so it's in a flame of fire the trunks that we create on a romantic night, and it's already – it's not between you and me [[relays]] But that's what we can take over. And, logically, also the issue of sectoral policies, both mitigation and adaptation. We have the Agriculture Advisor here, but that involves all departments, all departments. And that's right, now, the one I've hallucinated... - I'm sorry, huh? Because I'm the last one, but I'm sure that Boya and Grau will share it – I didn't think I'd feel a negationist speech in this little room. He gave me the impression that he was listening to Donald Trump at the Congress or the United States Senate. I never would have imagined it. [[Some applause.]] I recommend that you read the books, for example, of Brian Fagan, and then you'll know – you'll know – from whence you came and what happened to the little winter, the little medieval summer, you'll know..., you have a series of books that explain it perfectly well. And if you don't, you refer to the IPCC reports, which are thousands and thousands of world-wide shooting scientists and which are coordinated with all states. I mean, everyone has assumed it, because only – as I know you are of the essence – we will have to ask, perhaps, the reports not to the scientists who study this subject, the climateologists, but we will have to ask them to the astronomers who are to the Observers of the Montsec. Or, even so, we can ask the astrolegs to do the astral chart and look at it depending on whether there is a confluence between Jupiter and Ganimedes..., so let's see if there is any climate change effect. For the theme of... the CUP, to the Boya company, the theme of the nuclear. So, certainly, it's not in this law, but they know they have the option to put it on the table. And, besides, as we talked about with his escort company and not just the party, so has the fact that the president of Iberdrola has already said that nuclear power is no longer profitable. So maybe what's going to happen now is the fact that we're just going to have to adapt, that we're not going to have to wait just for the end of the useful life, but maybe they're going to make a model change themselves. With all this, what we are clear is that we have a negative climate inertia caused by anthropogenic action and therefore we need to draw a new scener. Albert Einstein, a German scientist, who came to Barcelona to visit 1923, Terrassa and l'Espuga de Francolí, said – that, incidentally, this last town is mine – « We can't solve the problems if we keep thinking the same as the day we created them. We went, for example, from Olivetti to PC, we generated a new model; so now we have to do the same: we have to start making a new paradigm. And this new paradigm goes through energy sovereignty; it goes through, too, canceling the sun tax that all the parties present in this chamber and also present in Madrid have signed to eradicate it once and for all, except the PP and UPN, which is their white mark in Navarre, which they have not signed. But all the games that are here, but they are also in Madrid, we have asked. We have an exhausted model that is fossil Catalonia. Therefore, we have a model to explore that it is the renewable Catalonia. The need for heating or motor electricity goes through the decarbonization and denuclearization of Catalonia. Therefore, this change will have to do as best and as best as possible. We need to move from consumers to producers, from passius to actius, from submission to liberation as citizens. Therefore, I ask that Victor Hugo already said that democracy was universal suffering and electricity. Today, universal suffrage and democracy are linked to self-consumption. We demand a renewable, decarbonized and denuclearized cent-per-cent model. The ship from Ithaca has sailed and is soft with renewable energies. Visca Catalunya is free of fossil and nuclear fuel. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.150.0	As we have finished eleven minutes later than expected, instead of starting the session at two-quarters of four, we will start it at three-quarters of four. Therefore, the session is suspected up to three-quarters of four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.151.0	It's part of the session. [[Question to the Government on the reorganization of hospital resources including the Siscat]] [[300-00032/11]] The fifth item on the agenda is the question to the Government on the reorganisation of hospital resources included in the Siscat, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. It has the word the lady Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.152.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. In his appearance at the Salvation Commission explaining the government program, Councillor Comín explained to us a lot of announcements; also in the program presented yesterday by President Puigdemont, didn't he? It's an amp program, but it's hard to see some concrete things, and in a different way, we see the accumulation of problems. We do see a different tarannà in Councillor Comín. But, counselor, I don't feel empathetic enough. We need to pull in and take some of the folds we have in front of us. You direct a department that is, no more or less, 40_percent of the Generality's premise, a department that deals with a subject such as salvation, that has suffered an accumulation of detail that has put the system at risk, and at continuous risk, and so we see with the amount of questions and motions that are presented. Councillor Comín, whom some media advisors call, announced to the Commission, and also quickly to the press, his intention to exclude entities with a desire to work. He spoke of the Vallès Clinic, the General Hospital of Catalonia..., no..., nor of the community network of mental health and social health, and he did not make any references either to the Sacred Cor or to the Girona Clinic. Go ahead, and the councilman knows, because we have already said in the committee, that the position of the Socialist Group is and will always be in favour of strengthening the public system, and it is against the fact that resources are being directed to entities with no jobs. We see how in the past few years the public assumption for the public has been pressed and, in change, the public assumption for the private has been gloated. But in the Council of Salut, of the CatSalut, it was said that these two centers, Clinic of the Vallès and General of Catalonia, of the Siscat, were suppressed because they were not considered necessary to carry out the ordinary activity that correspond to the network of centers of public use. And here's where we start to patir, here's our question. I mean, we think it was a decision that was made without planning and, in any case, without knowing exactly who would absorb this increase in activity that came to the public centers. The Vallès Clinic finishes the contract on August 15. Says there are 3,711 patients, 2,600 interventions and 1,000 hospitalizations, and rep, according to the contract published for the counseling, 7,2_million euros. To ensure a quality service and avoid an increase in the waiting lists, the Tauli Park, the Tauli Hospital, has to have resources, and not just an increase in the assumption of this 7.2, but a real budgetary increase that allows to reopen closed rooms, extend staff hours and make new contracts and extend operating hours. The centre – which, as we recall, saw in the last two months, and already carries a long-standing structural deficit, a breakdown in the emergency service and a lack of hospital beds for the reference population it has, two days ago we have just closed the beds – qualifies its needs in eighty beds and sixty-five professional beds. In order not to be necessary, there are many interventions that need to be addressed, right? This... and the needy are marked only to absorb the non-derivatives. Not to address, let's say, the structural deficit we have. The feeling is we're starting the house on the roof. Perhaps, first we should equip the centres sufficiently to function properly and then, in an orderly and planned manner, expand the volume of activity. At this time, we know little about how they will do it, and, to the surprise of all the leaflets, later this week there are some statements that tell us that the solution would be to lodge two hospital plants and surgery at the Clinic of Vallès. We'd tell you something very Barcelona: roll the world and go back to Born. That is to say, we will return to pay a private entity, but now not in the form of a service, but in the form of a space logger, without making clear who will do this service; if we move surgeons, infirmary, auxiliary personnel, or just contract some services. That's why I told you, counselor, that we can't find another explanation that there's no lack of planning. Because I remind him once more that in CatSalut they said that they were not necessary centers. And I told you the record, huh? And what we're worried about is that if we're talking about the General Hospital, that the contract ended the 1st generation of 2017, so the thing is more complicated. Because, all the department said was that there were only forty-six interventions in one year, we're paying them 15,5_million! If we pay them 15.5_million a year for forty-six derivatives must be gold derivatives, because otherwise, really, they don't get along. Therefore, it is assumed that we have a few months to go to work on the absorption by the public centers of this activity, with quality criteria and without increasing the already backlogs of waiting lists. And that's what we're asking and what we're also going to reflect on the motion in the proper plenary: that, therefore, the planning of the release of the public system from these hospitals with a desire for work is being approached. Because what we're worried about is that the citizens don't go beyond the waiting list and, above all, that all the plant opening, plant growth and..., necessary to absorb this, but also to lay the foundations for the structural deficiencies they already have. We're worried about the Sagrat Cor. We're very concerned. Because the Sacred Heart is not just about the derivations, it has ordinary activity and it is a reference of 180,000 inhabitants. The half of the Eixample has reference to the Hospital of the Sacred Heart. And, therefore, we want to know what the planning is in this setting is. From the sources of the department they say that, well, it's still unclear to which operators it lasts and on. We also know that they trick some system operators into absorbing more activity. But it might be worth clarifying and explaining the planning well. For what he does to the Girona Clinic, Department fonts say they haven't entered this part of the planning. And I remind him that the 1st generation of 2007. Jo, the feeling I have is they haven't gotten into this or any other planning. I have already said this, Counsellor: absolutely in agreement with political decision-making. If it is true and believes it, it will be one of the important steps to strengthen the public character of the health system. But it is absolutely disconcerting how it is done and, above all, the bar of information that all folds have at this time. Because statements like we can get space and service to the same people who do it, or when the sources of the department, and they're in the press, say they don't rule out in any case going back to these private centers, we think they don't help and that, above all, what they carry is much more confusing. Basically, if the centres that are to absorb the activity are not sufficiently equipped, this will be impossible, and the only ones that will suffer will be, once more, those that will suffer all the deficiencies and all the tension of the same system: the professionals and the ills, the patients, the citizens, those that will not be derived but that will not know exactly where they will be served. Twenty-two million a year is what we'd stop going to the Vallès Clinic and the General Hospital. What we ask is how it will apply to hospitals that will absorb this, how it will deal with the increase in activity and, above all, how we will absorb the newer, more structural, deficits. To repeat it once more that we agree, and there are the professionals, above all – and everyone has already talked about the Tauli Park, which I also take advantage of to greet you, which are here with us today – professionals who want to absorb, who want to do this activity, among other things because they create their territory and because they believe that they are a reference hospital, and they believe that they do. But let's leave it a comment that both they and other centers that become active tell us: they're kind of doing the pre-op, leaving the disease well to do and passing what they tell the sweet pears to another hospital because you're doing the surgery. This is what I thought you wanted to end, what we share what you do. But please, let's do it right. Because behind each of these derivations there is a name and a surname and someone who hopes to be attached to public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.153.0	Greetings from the Councillor, Mr. Antoni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.154.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, I thank you for your intervention. And you'll start by giving them some advice, with the utmost cordiality, and you'll hear me: you don't care about the diaries, honourable Member, to prepare an inquiry. Even more: do not decide to make an inquiry from a newspaper holder who does not return to the department, in any case. Because I assure you, and I will now detail it, that one of the criteria for this reordering of the activity is that there should be no space for a private operator. If the origin of this inquiry is that you read a headline that says we're going to bring in two plants from the Vallès Clinic in order to be able to do what some diaries have called deprivatization, I'll leave her alone and I assure her she won't be like that. Now, I don't hold myself responsible for the wrong headlines who do according to five communication media based on sources that misreport them. Because responsibility in this case is obviously not in the communication mode. The responsibility is of the font, which must respond to some interests that I at these moments disconnect. I'll give him another thought, too. As you can see, this decision was made by us... by the time we took it, which was when we closed the parliamentary agreement, they know the minimum basics of planning that would require such a measure. Now we're looking at all the details of this planning. But the month of December we were already familiar with the capabilities of each of these centers and how we could do it. If we didn't, we wouldn't even take the deal, would we? What happens is that this needs a technical job. But, in any case, planning needs little strawberry and a lot of straightening, honourable Member. Therefore, there is no sense that while we do this planning, we dedicate ourselves to making public statements. What you've been feeling is that we analyze the data in detail, that we talk to us affected by it so that it's done the way we do it. And how do we do that? Minimizing impact. Go on, make the impact in terms of care zero: that there is no affect for the patient; that there is no increase in waiting lists; that it is guaranteeing satisfaction and quality, and accessibility, exactly as it has so far. And if I may, I'll give you details of how we're going to do this. Another cry, too. You say: "Start the house by the roof. Listen, some media have called it "deprivation," so let's just say... the calendar, you must hear perfectly that not the frame me. The calendar of these deprivatizations determines the contracts, which end when they end. Therefore, if I am not to renew the contract with the Vallès Clinic, the decision not to renew the contract with the Vallès Clinic must be made when the contract ends, which is in August 2016. And, therefore, it is at that moment that I have to decide the activity of the Clinic of Vallès where it will go. You tell me: "Wait, I'll fix all the structural deficit problems in Tauli and after Tauli will absorb the activity of the Clinic of Vallès..., and while I have had to renew the contract for years. You must have heard that this wasn't so, right? I mean, the house starts with what the contract and its calendar determines. We didn't win the moment, either for the Vallès Clinic, or for the General Hospital, or for the Sacred Cor, which, of course, has a contract until the year 22. Another consideration. The General Hospital of Catalonia... it's not that we pay for the gold-priced derivatives. It's that you're supposed to have forgotten that we're doing radiotherapy there. And that's what explains the import that CatHealth spends at the General Hospital: a radiotherapy service. Now we are opening a new radiotherapy service in Manresa, operated by Terrassa, for the health consortia, and, therefore, each time we have more public capacity in radiotherapy, but until now we are very dependent on the radiotherapy service of the General Hospital. And I'm still going to give him another consideration and, as I've already eaten up half the time, I'm going to go into detailing the solution we have at these times, which is: we don't sweep the different decisions making a package in which we intend to fix one thing with another. I'll explain. In the hospital Parc Tauli there are problems of structural deficiencies, yes; we take specific measures to alleviate the structural deficit. Moreover, we need to reabsorb the activity of the Clinic of Vallès and of the General Hospital, yes; we are doing a process of reordering the activity to reabsorb this activity that these private operators do. Moreover, we have made a plan to reduce the waiting lists, yes; so, we can provide the resources needed for the plan to reduce the waiting lists. Each of these measures has an impact on the very centre, yes, that is the Tauli Park; but let's not say with a measure solve them all. Therefore, I can reabsorb the activity of the Tauli Park and, in parallel, have a solution plan for the structural deficit of this hospital, which is, moreover, what we are doing. But now I will focus, if I may, only on the issue of activity reordering. What do we have today? Today we have that of the total of the high hospitals that make the five hospitals of Vallès, which are 73,000, 92_per_cent is fan in the three public centers– we talk about the region, this is: Tauli Hospital, Consorci Sanitari de Terrassa and Mutua de Terrassa – and an 8_per_cent is what makes today the General Hospital and the Clinic of the Vallès, about 5,700 highs. Of these 5,700 heights – certainly a relevant theme – only approximately 2,500 come from the municipality of Sabadell. Why do I detail that? We have different criteria on the table to minimize the impact of this deprivation. The first of them is that there is no lack of care quality; the second is that there is no space for a private operator to follow the activity; the third is that people do not move from municipalities, that is, who today could treat Sabadell because he was going to the Clinic of Vallès must be able to continue to treat Sabadell going to Parc Tauli. Explain this, what have we seen? That in these moments, to absorb all the additional activity that the General and the Clinic of Vallès are doing today, we would need – these 5,700 high ones, eh? , that they are high enough to support the other three hospitals, that they are ordinary hospitals – 68 extra beds and we would need 5 additional surgery sessions; it is to say, operating theatres that only work in the morning, 5 of the operating theatres that only work in the morning should also open in the late morning. From this activity, detail: 36 beds are the ones we would need to absorb the activity that comes from Sabadell and, out of 68, 36 are the ones that we need to absorb the activity that comes from Sabadell, and 3 operating rooms, operating rooms, are the ones that we need to absorb the activity that comes from Sabadell. In addition, we are aware that the schedule of waiting lists will also require more additional activity. How much? Fifteen extra beds and 2 O.R. sessions. So, all right, now I'll explain to you what is the idle ability – I understand the concept – of the three public hospitals in the region. In 2010, the structural beds that the Tauli Park has are 488, to 2015 in open tea 420; therefore, today, the Tauli Park has 68 beds available. The Terrassa Sanitari Consortium has structural beds, 391, and today it has 260 occupied, it has 131 beds available. I the mutual, 469 structural beds, in occupied tea 373, in tea 96 available. What do you mean? That we have 295 beds to absorb the increase in activity that comes from the two decisions that we have before us: the decision to remove the Siscat the General Hospital and the Clinic of Vallès, which, as I said before, will require 68 beds, and the decision to make more activity to reduce the waiting lists, which will require 15 beds. If I'm good, 15 and 68 in 83. And we have 295. Did we know these people that we were negotiating the shoc plan when we decided to remove from the Siscat the Clinic of the Valley on August 15th and the General Hospital the 1st generation? Of course we knew, honourable Member, we knew perfectly well. Because what I can't do is go around the world and I'm going to do the most important deprivatization... – I'm going to use "deprivatization because it's a concept that has used the press repeatedly –, what I can't do is go around the communication media explaining that I'm going to do the most deprivatization that has been done in Catalonia for the last thirty-five years..., that is, it's the most important deprivatization that has been done in Catalonia for the last thirty-five years. I am pleased that a group which is said to be socialist agrees with this measure; I am pleased that, publicly, the Socialist Party of Catalonia agrees with the most important measure that has been taken in the last thirty-five years to strengthen the public character of our sanitation, I insist, the most important measure that has been taken, in volume, to strengthen the public character of our sanitation. But it is obvious that I could not have announced this measure without having the absolute guarantee – the absolute guarantee – that all the activity that we deprivatize can be absorbed, I insist, for the 295 beds that, precisely because of the decrease in activity of the last five years, at these times are available. Therefore: on beds, between the Tauli, the Terrassa Sanitary Consortium and the Terrassa Mutual, to absorb all the activity...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.155.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.156.0	...that will have to be absorbed. Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.157.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.158.0	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.159.0	It has the word the lady Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.160.0	Thank you, President. Miri, this morning, who we all speak of little and very straight straw, I will say to him: in his intervention, very cold and little straight. Or I will say it in another way that is clearer and without using the President's words: much consideration and little concreteness. I thank you very much for the presumptive considerations you make me about communication means or about knowledge. Look, I also have the advantage that the age gives, that a long time ago it does, of life, and that makes everything set to its full extent and go looking... or go to the font, explain where things are. And so I myself, like you, have visited the Tauli hospital and many other hospitals; I, like you, I hope, have spoken to the professionals whenever I have been able to address the centres, and also, whenever I can, with some patients and with the business committees. I think that when a party, when a parliamentary group carries an inquiry, it can use what a newspaper says, but above all it uses that knowledge that brings it. On the relationship, we would say, policy-press, look, Mr. Counselor, it is not the subject of taking a press headline: it is that you have the obligation to donate those headlines that clarify to the professional and patient who is the government action you want to do. Your relationship with the press is not to look for a headline or who has posed a headline... Certainly, he said, "They've put in a headline that was "deprivation," and that's what you've been using all the time so far; I mean they've put in their own words. His obligation is, if there is one thing wrong, to rectify it; but above all, to transmit and give security to the professional and the citizen. Citizens, in general, therefore, use communication media, and the professionals are told directly through the channels that may exist. And there was one thing that left me, of all his explanation, that I obviously thank him... I also have to say, Counselor, that you always appreciate my whole thing, and I don't always appreciate yours, because, I don't know why, sometimes it's a little aggressive. If we are to build salvation in this country, and do it in the best possible way, and therefore we do not need to take it badly. But he thanked me very much when you talked about idle beds, because I don't know if they're idle or detailed anymore. Because if the year 2010 had 488 beds and now there are 415 beds, it is not that it has 68 beds available: it is that during these five years they have told them; it is that they have cut plants, they have closed plants, they have closed beds, and this is what we give all parliamentary groups. If it's been a week since they've closed beds! I mean, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And, on the other hand, you know that if you go to Tauli Hospital, you're full of patients who can't get out of the emergency room because there's no beds on the plants. And that's the reality. Therefore, they are not idle beds. That you can make an effort... it's retaliated beds. Now, let us decide that these detailed beds can serve, among other things, to absorb, well done, the whole activity, I have already told you from the first moment; we agree. Professionals, business committees, a lot of people – a lot of people – and a lot of parliamentary groups, we don't want these centers in the Siscat; we agree with you. We don't want the private to get pregnant, we want the public toilet to get angry. Now, let's put things to... So, this is where I wanted to get, Mr. Counselor, as a matter of fact. We have to reverse the details, and from here... Or together, do it in parallel—do it in parallel—better than better, among other things, because contracts end when they end. But with the reversal of the detail, with that reversal..., which we also said to him: listen, 1,300_euros per inhabitant/year 2010, 1,210 or 1,217 year 2015, let's reverse it, that's what we ask, because that's what will support us to be able to grasp and address the most structural deficits and, therefore, to plant, then yes, with which we would be paying these private clinics, all we have to do. And I'm telling you, I'm not telling you to wait, I'm telling you, we're planning this, because it's true that we have a time now. All the contracts... and I already know, when they're done, because it's more published and imports come out of it; but they say one date and they all have an extension, huh? Some are signed with one date, with two years, and what is obvious is that there is an annual extension. Jo, delighted with the life that the Clínica del Vallès ended this month of August, but on August 16 the Clínica del Vallès has to be able to attend to all..., ai, the Clínica del Vallès : el Tauli, o qui segui, has to be able to attend to all those who cease to be derivatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.161.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then there's the word Salut's advisor, Mr. Antoni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.162.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, do not see – you know me many years ago – aggression where there is simply vehemence. And, if my vehemence can be misinterpreted as aggression, I am the one who has no problem apologizing for this interpretation that makes it easier for me. In any case, it is now explicit that if you see me as a little intense it is not aggressive, instead: I thank you that you put this theme on the table and that we can explain, but allow'mser vehemently, let's say it, because the character from a certain age is difficult to change. I who I have to talk to, honourable Member, it is with the affected, with whom I have to talk to the affected, which is what we are doing through the channels that we are doing. That is to say, the Catalan Health Service has to negotiate with the hospitals affected, from the entrance with its directions and then with its workers, which is what at these times, in the order that corresponds, is after the corresponding technical analysis. And he'll understand that while we're doing this process, precisely because we're planning, we can't go with statements to the diary; he'll understand that the planning process, precisely, requires a backup point and a discretion point; and that's nothing to do with opacity. Just because we're not talking about it is proof that we're planning this. You say, "Oh, it's like they don't talk about it, so that makes us hear they don't plan. Exactly the opposite, honourable Member: that we don't talk about it means we're doing the right thing, and we're not going to do the strawberry, are we? So, an acclaim in the... I agree with you when you say, "Let's do it in parallel, because we're doing it in parallel. We are working with the Tauli scenaris, for the moment we are working internally to be able to put on the table of the Tauli scenaris to go improving gradually their situation of structural deficiency; but with the condition that they do not depend on us, which is the August 2016 date, we are preparing the scenario of resorption of the activity that will have to be done by the Tauli from which until now it is done at the Clinic of Vallès. And an acclaim on the subject of the urgency of the Tauli. I didn't go in with details. You know that there is a plant in Tauli where there is at these times these beds available, we could say..., they are not available, because there is a socio-sanitary who has to go to Albada, but to Albada they have to work. And, therefore, if we look at the institution of Tauli, in its conjunction, it has these beds available; if we think of the hospital-hospital Tauli – at these times, actually, they are not there, and that is what is causing this emergency collapse. Therefore, in Tauli there is a complex process, from the transfer of the socio-sanitary, which has been the hospital to Albada, which will, yes, allow this absorption. And I told him that we – with the time I have I can't give him more details – apart from the quality of care and not to affect the patients, we have put two more planning criteria, which I think are the ones I have to explain today, because I think these are the ones that we can explain and that they are of general interest. One – some owners deny –: we will not allocate external resources to be able to make this absorption of activity that until today make private operators. Of: minimize, if they can to zero, that no patient must move from his or her municipality. So now I'm summarizing what I've explained to you before: if we need 68 extra beds and 5 surgery sessions, if we need to absorb Sabadell's activity, 36 extra beds and 3 surgery sessions, I'm telling you: we have, in total, 295 beds available, taking into account this little page that I've made on the Taulis, and these 295 aren't 68... – we don't get a confusion about the coincidence of the two cups, it's the same –; 68 of these 295 correspond to the Taulis, which allows us to ensure that, if to absorb Sabadell's activity in the Sabadell's territory, 36 people understand that it is less than 68, so that I can guarantee that the citizens of Sabadell's activity will be carried out by Sabadell's municipality until the end of Sabadell's territory. What else am I saying with this? That part of the activity that today does the Clinic of the Valley and that today does the General Hospital of Catalonia, probably, will have to be derived to centers such as the Consorci Sanitari de Terrassa or the Mutual. Therefore, the capacity of the region is more than enough to absorb that which today in the region is ugly in private centers. I believe that these principles of planning, plus the principles of institutional dialogue, plus the principles of dialogue with centre workers, plus the principles of quality care allow us to conclude what you ask of us, that we are doing things as we have to do, with planning, beforehand, with dialogue, transparency with those affected before anyone else. And when I answer, we will already make – not pateixi – a public press wheel explaining what the final decision is. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.163.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on security policies]] [[300-00034/11]] The sixth item on the agenda is the question to the Government on security policies presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. To expose her, has the word Mr. Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.164.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Good afternoon, Counselor. In any democratic country that is at an anti-terrorism alert level 4, which means that it is only at a point of the maximum anti-terrorism alert and, therefore, it means that the danger of a storm is a reality, is a possibility, if in any democratic country that is found in our situation we know that the most important area of security policy coordination that this country has is not meeting since 2009 and that we are in 2016, it would almost certainly generate day-holders in the form of a request for political responsibilities at the highest level and requests for resignation. This is happening in Catalonia, and I don't know if between three-quarters of an hour the President of the Generality and the President of the Spanish State, when they start to drink coffee at the Palau de La Moncloa, will address this anomaly in their interview, because the most benign word I can find to designate this fact is "a profound anomaly. Why is this happening, Counselor? I'd like you to give me your opinion. Has the government of the generality done, has its council done what it was to do because this gathering is produced? First, obviously, it has been produced for a long time, because the Security Board had to have acted in planning the deployment of the police of Catalonia in the conjunction of its territory, calculating the costs and countermeasures to be provided by other parts and security forces of the State, but, obviously, the Security Board remains without meeting. I don't know if the President of the Generality of Catalonia is chairing it, but, to be sure – and I repeat – it is the most important area of police coordination that we should have, and at this point it is not acting, it is inactive. That's what we're worried about. I think I know the opinion of the Mossos d'Esquadra, the police of Catalonia, who obviously want and want this coordination. I think I know the opinion of the vast majority, not to mention all the local cops, who are also represented on this security board playing their police role in the vicinity. I think I know, at best, the opinion of the state's security and security forces, the National Police and the Civil Guard, who want coordination with the Mosses and local police. So, what's the problem? Perhaps the problem is in political interference, which is preventing the professional task of the different bodies and the security forces of the different polices from doing their job, brokering with political opinions the professional work that we have to ask and demand from these bodies? If that were so, Counselor, it would be a hard irresponsibility. And therefore, this inquiry has to be used, too, to put on lights and stencils why this is happening. We want to know, who are the responsibilities and, obviously, if it takes President Puigdemont or the President of the Government of the State to announce that the result of this meeting, immediately and urgently, the Board of Security of Catalonia is meeting and that we will pray to address the security policy that must be in Catalonia, we will rejoice. But as long as that doesn't happen, we'll report it with names and surnames; that's why we want names and surnames, to know where the responsibility is wrong clearly. You know, Mr. Counsellor, and you have unfortunately shown us the last moments of Paris and Brussels, that today the battle of security on counter-terrorism issues is free in the fields of coordination and information. They're key areas for hearing the new threats. Areas of coordination and information, which means that the police of Catalonia, the Mosso d'Esquadra, are not only to be coordinated with the other polices of the Spanish State and also the other polices of Catalonia, like the local polices, but they are to be able to participate with you and with full knowledge of the police information systems and of the police information networks of the conjunction of Europe, e.g. Europol and other police coordination organizations, with own eyes from Catalonia, from the police of Catalonia. This is an unquestionable fact for us and, obviously, this must begin with the first field of coordination, which is the field of coordination that must be in Catalonia, which is this Security Board of our country. Tell him, Mr. Minister, Counselor, I'm sorry, you know what I mean. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, yeah, he lost, not yet. [[Rialles.]] Not yet. You know well that the criminal impacts that we have accumulated in Catalonia last year, the year 2015, go down; that, in principle, we could say that the trend is positive, with the exception of, as you know, both in the issue of theft to property, which has re-emerged, as in the topic of metal theft, which has also had some disturbing episodes, but, in general, the criminal impact goes down. But you also know that the anti-terrorist operation has made – or provoked – a maximum requirement on the current staff of the Squadron Mossos, that after the last meeting of the Security Board, it had to be fixed with 18,267 agents and that at this time we only have an act of less than 16,700 agents. Therefore, it means that we are paying foreign hours for there to be an increase in patrolling and security to give coverage to the anti-terrorist alert, but that if we have the template compromised at the time in Catalonia, these foreign hours might not have to pay them, maybe some mobile patrols, in some of these cities that are concerned about the increase of the incidents of stealers to the property, some of these patrols are more common. And they can't be because the Mosses are doing other things, possibly. And so, Mr. Counselor, we're concerned about the staff. We need more movement, more public servants of our security and, more importantly, now that the Mossos have been deployed in the vicinity of the territory of Catalonia, that the Mossos are also the police that you serve, from the point of view of road security, that it is an important issue and that before we had the Civil Guard or that we had, to the province of Barcelona or elsewhere, the National Police, and now we have Mossos, means that there is also an economic setback here. We are assuming from our assumption some costs that were previously assumed for other administrations and other police bodies and, therefore, the Security Board has to issue an opinion, an agreement, it has to value this fact, because at the last meeting of the Security Board still the Mossos were not police throughout Catalonia and, therefore, in this period of time things have changed. And all this concerns us, Counselor, and therefore we ask that in some way it be addressed. In the second intervention I will also go into a few other issues, obviously of concern to us; but I think that in this first one I want to put the emphasis as the central element of policies of security of Catalonia, that we are with the little fake; we are with the little fake and we want to know if the citizens of Catalonia can be reassured that the elements of police coordination that our country deserves are fully active or, by political stings of some or others, it turns out that we are politicizing in a negative way one of the aspects that they should ensure; and they should ensure the margin of the second five policy debates, that is the security of our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.165.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply to the Councillor of Interior, Mr. Jordi Jané.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.166.0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen... Mr Nuet, I thank you for your inquiry and you will allow me to give some initials in the answer you require me. But let me, Mr. Nuet, be careful. I want to be careful and try not to generate cockroaches in the realm of security. I think it's a responsibility that we have all that we've taken on competitions, responsibilities in the interior, security, trying not to get into cockroaches. But you're asking me for a piece of information. We are in the Parliament of Catalonia, you have all the right to ask her as a Member, and I also have the obligation to give her an answer and, therefore, without wishing to enter into a pickle, I will give her what is the opinion of the Government of Catalonia and what we have done from the Government of Catalonia in the field that you are asking of us. It has focused this first intervention very directly on the issue of the Security Board. I believe that this issue of the Security Board has to be framed from a legal perspective, because as long as we want to talk about the compliment of the norms; as long as we want to talk about the compliment of the constitutional bloc, which you and I, who have been to the Congress of the Deputies, have been listening to us many times: "The constitutional bloc must be completed, so, well, this constitutional bloc, which is so much in demand that it exists; it exists in the State, in an article that I invite all the deputies and deputies that we have very present, because it is an article of these that has not been challenged and that the Constitutional Court has not only reviewed a comma. Therefore, we are talking about the legislation of a constitutional and statutory bloc that is fully applicable. What do you say? So, say that the Generalitat participates; it cannot participate, no, no, no, it says: "The Generalitat participates in it. What are you involved in? So, it participates through the Security Board... – which is not actually convened since the year 2009, they have already spent more than seven years without being summoned – therefore, it is the instrument, this Security Board, legal, of participation of the Generality in the coordination of security policies, in the coordination of the activity of the police units of the State and Catalonia. Therefore, what the bodies of the State do in Catalonia should be coordinated at the Security Board – and this is what the State says – and a basic element – that you have focused on its intervention – says: "In the information exchange in the international sphere and in the collaboration and assistance relations with the police authorities of other countries, we must participate with the Generality, in these international spheres. And, moreover, in case this was not quite clear, the article concludes: "The Generality, according to the State, must be present – cannot be present, must be present – "in the working and working groups with the police of other countries in which the State participates". Therefore, this is the applicable legal rule – not available, applicable – and as such..., I assumed the responsibility of Internal Counsel on June 22nd of last legislature, only to assume this responsibility, you can garbellar the communication media and see that the first week I already stated that the Security Board had to meet, and I expressed it in various interviews, in various contacts with the same Interior Minister, when we found ourselves in various acts: "The Security Board must be convened. But this Security Board can't summon you to disagree. It would be a bad news for society that, suddenly, we convened an organization to coordinate, to show that we disagree. And, therefore, before calling it, the order of the day must be agreed. We need to find some agreements, and we haven't been able to cover it because every time they've wanted to close that meeting, so, it's like that fish that you want to catch, and at the end of it, you can't close this order of the day. Maybe we should just call her in without agreement, but that would be bad news. So, what have we done? Apart from saying it, manifest it, when we find ourselves commenting on it; we have made cards. And that's why I told him that he'll have some initials: so, I've already made two official cards – already – in this legislature. Because they know that we had an electoral process on September 27th; then one time the new government was formed, I address it, formally... I said it every time, but I thought, "See if we don't have a written conscience that we want to do so. I address a letter to the Minister of the Interior, specifically I address the letter to him on February 10, and I make it clear that in the wake of the struggle against Gihadism, too, at this level 4_on_5, it is necessary to gather the Security Board. And I propose that we meet, that we talk about it so as to set an order of the day and make it from the consensus. Letter of which official reply, with a subject that will be opinionable, but I have my opinion. With a theme that..., says from the government: "Miri, we can't bring her together now because we're working. And I believe that the powers of this Security Board cannot see'sinterfered for electoral processes, because security does not understand either electoral processes or functioning governments. The threat is to all of us. You're asking me, but you're threatening to ask us all, and that you're asking us all it's necessary to get this Security Board together. And as it is, and sadly on March 22nd, again, we have Gihadist attempts, in this case in Brussels, what does the Councillor of Interior do on behalf of the Government of Catalonia? I address, on the 24th, a new letter to the Minister of the Interior; a new letter in which, textually, I pass on the skills we have, they ask them to enter from the CITCO, Center of Intelligence for Terrorism and Organized Crime, formally and through an agreement. Because that's where we need to swap data. He asked for it by phone, and I agreed with his Secretary of State for Security, who called for that late day on the 22nd, in which we held the tempts, called the risk assessment table. And I ask them, "What don't you call us, the Squad Mosses? Because we also have skills in risk assessment; because we, in Catalonia, are an integral police force; because we, in Catalonia, need to be able to participate when the risk is to be assessed. And, finally, therefore, by mediating phone conversations, he ran, he said: "So, he went, he came; that even so, therefore, we had to improvise quickly who was going there and..., they are not ways. I mean, this has to be stable. We can't go thinking every time we have to get together if we make a text or a phone call to see if we stay, when everyone's safe. And when, precisely, on the 24th, I make this letter to him, which I say to him that we must enter the CITCO, that I again demand that the Security Board meet, that I remember the international agreements, that we should be there as the police of Catalonia to improve the effectiveness, because, moreover, we are police of a border territory, and therefore France also cares about that. So, well, remembering all of this, I go back formally as I respond to the conclusions of the joint statement of Ministers of Justice and Interior that was gathered on March 22nd, to Brussels..., no, the 24th, after the tempts of the 22nd. And what do you say, what does the European Union ask us? He tells us, he asks us to urgently strengthen system-wide food, consistent use and interoperability of European and international databases in the field of security. That's what they're asking us. And what do we have to do? Do it. And what does the Government of Catalonia want to do? Enter the CITCO, which the Generality follows, through the Squadron Mosses, with police criteria, but which we follow, because this will help us to be more effective in the fight against this level 4_on_5 that we really care about, and we care a lot about. So, what you're asking us to do is share it with the government. We need to meet this Security Board of Catalonia, and more so – and with that, Madam President – there is an economic argument that is no less, you said: "The Squadron Mosses have deployed, they have assumed nine competitions since that last meeting of the Security Board of March 3, 2009. Still pending payment, the State to the Generality, the deployment of the 2010-2013 period mosses, which may, according to the Department of Economy, more than 264_million euros. Therefore, here too, there is an economic compensation that remains pending, that we need for security policies, to make new calls and to actually attend to the citizenry with a demand of more security, more prevention, that we all share. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.167.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then there's the word Mr. Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.168.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I appreciate your answer. I think it helps us to clarify a little bit on the side of the scale there's the load; it's not very important. I hope that with the Minister of the Interior of the Government of Spain, today, this very late, the rectification, the President of the Government of Spain. I really hope so. Whenever the People's Party still has the ability not to use the debate of security in a muddy manner. I do not know if you will have it, Mr. Counsellor, but I wish, for the sake of everyone, that the issue of security is converted into a common good that we have to manage folds and that we cannot make it serve as a ping-pong driver between governments or between political parties, whichever is the colour of the Government. That said, four aspects that I want to highlight very briefly. You know... you've already appeared in committee here in Parliament, and some of these things we've already told you, but it's good to finish. Prevention is a duty, a duty of security. Everything we can predict in security policies will then be easier, cheaper, simpler and less painful to deal with. For example, the theme of genera's violence: it must be an axis of Catalonia's security policies. Obviously, we're worried. Today, the Speaker of Parliament recalled this morning that Sant Feliu de Llobrega was murdered by another woman. Unfortunately, in this case, his sentimental companion was a squadron's move. Perhaps, Mr. Counselor, we need to review these protocols that allow a low-level move to have the regular gun at home. You know, and you said that sometimes these protocols allow you to do things because they've always been done. Perhaps the protocol that allowed this move to shoot and kill your sentimental companion is a protocol to be reviewed, counselor. And we replace it and we ask it that this can be done, because the case of Sant Feliu is as bad as it is for the whole city of Sant Feliu de Llobregat. The second theme: the theme of the fundamentalist radicalization. You already know what we think of the origin of this problem. Syria, Iraq or Lebanon were perhaps democratic states, but they were functioning states. Today they are failed states, and countries like ours and Western countries have political responsibility in creating these problems. From here we come refugees who shoot them two times: when they have been to their country and then when they return here to their countries of origin. Therefore, we are concerned, yes, by the early detection of speech radicalization, Mr. Counsellor. This has to work, and you know that the main ally that the Squad Movements have in Catalonia for this detection is the local police and it's the joints. That administration, that police that knows, in a college or in an institute, if there is a phenomenon of these characteristics that begins to point out and that maybe later, if we don't detect it, then it will create important problems for us. Therefore, this detection. Third: the Feixist Violence. When we say that Sabadell the fatxes surround the worker, it almost makes us cry. Yes, in Europe, fascism grows, and it grows on problems with immigration, the issue of refugees, the crowded people... So that the Mosso d'Esquadra doesn't have any doubts to pursue, to cut down on the fexist violence – I'm finished. Mediation in social conflict is the future, Counselor. We live moments of social, economic and democratic crisis. And people came out in the street, but I can assure them that, I'm not convinced, they'll still come out more in the street. And that the street is people's. In this street, people have the right to protest and protest. And the Squad Moissons have a duty to fight for the rights that these people have to protest and protest. And the best solution...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.169.0	Mr. Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.170.0	...you know what it's like – I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.171.0	...the time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.172.0	I'm done, President. The best solution is the media and the dialog, that we have the most well-prepared Moves, that before raising a fucking, there's always a word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.173.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then there's the word, Mr. Jordi Jané.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.174.0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nuet, the first woman who wanted to do so this morning solemnly started this plenary session, but I will now do so as the Councillor of the Interior: to regret any episode of male violence, domestic violence, which may be produced and which, unfortunately, are produced, some of them, such as Sant Feliu, with the result of a dead person, and also the person, therefore, who did the murder, finally committed suicide. Therefore, regret it, and deeply regret it. And to say that he knew us especially hard at the Department of Interior, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, that in this concrete case..., and they think that it is an absolutely exceptional case in the history of the Mossos d'Esquadra, very exceptional, but unfortunately in this case, that there was this violent action, the author was a move of squadron, which finally, therefore, was killed. And to say that he knows us hard not only because in this case – and it's exceptional – he was an agent of the body, but also because the Mosso d'Esquadra every day do hundreds of tasks to help prevent male and gender violence, more than thirty thousand follow-ups reporting every year. And, therefore, there is a daily, self-sacrificing pocket, and that is why, obviously, it blames us. I want to value the good work of the squadron moss in this area. And to say that it is true, you are quite right, Mr Nuet, when, looking at the concrete case, we arrive at an honest reflection to say: "Look if we have failed in some way, look if there is any aspect of the protocol that can find a different solution. And we've activated it. The same Director General of the Police has already announced that he will appear before this Parliament of Catalonia, and we are activating... Because it is certain that certain collections that for his work can have after, if they suffer a certain malalty, a hard impact, of risk, on third parties..., it is necessary to open a reflection of a connection, on occasions, between the data – and I go to the Councillor Comín – medical and the data of the correspondent at the professional level in order to avoid a subsequent risk. Therefore, we are in this, and I will ask for the collaboration of all the parliamentary groups, because if we can do it with the maximum input, this review, which will ultimately be a regulatory review, which we will have to place here in the Parliament of Catalonia... Therefore, I thank him, and the same Director General of the Police will have occasion to explain it when he appears before the Committee on the Interior of this Parliament. According to what Mr. Nuet was claiming from me. It meant that the radicalization of speech in our doors would require a greater involvement of the local police, and we share it. We share it and this is why we have created, already in this legislature – we started it in the past, but in this one we have already materialized – an instrument that is called Proderai Proximitat Local Police, which is: processes of detection of Islamist radicalism, which had done it for the proximity agents of the Cos de Mosso d'Esquadra, but I had no sense of leaving behind the local police, which are also police of Catalonia, which actually have a proximity pocket and which can be very useful for detecting these radicalization processes. And from this point of view we also say that thirty-one training activities have already taken place in various territories of Catalonia, we have reached all the local police, and we are still on hold – and are already on schedule – only the Urban Guard of Barcelona. Therefore, these sessions have already taken place, but they are not static sessions, it has to be dynamic and it has to be a process of going with local police sharing all these instruments that help us detect Islamist radicalization in our home in time. We also mentioned the subject of festivity, and, obviously, we share it, we must go against any kind of violence and, above all, rapes that are based on the most extreme ideology to tempt against democratic values, to tempt against peaceful coexistence in Catalonia. Catalonia has any ideology, any way of thinking, but we cannot admit any type of violence. Therefore, before this fexist violence, before also violence that can suffer any political formation, we must be on top of it. And in Sabadell's case, tell him that Inspector Jordi Guillot is directly on it, with these cases detected, the same councillor has already spoken to the mayor of Sabadell, we're on it and we share that. And, finally, mediation; obviously. It must always be possible to mediate – I also said this morning to answer certain oral questions to the Ple – before it acted forcefully. The legitimate use of force should always be preceded by an attempt to mediate. I was the object of criticism, because in a certain difficult disorder that we had in Salou we employed mediation before a police charge. I think we'd do it again, because he clearly avoided that there was more there, that there was chrispain, and sometimes, when the media...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.175.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.176.0	...it can have its fruits, we really think it's a good solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.177.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about territorial planning]] [[300-00035/11]] The order of the day is set: inquiry to the Government on the territorial planning, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. To expose it has the word Lord Sergi Saladié.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.178.0	Thank you, President. We present this inquiry on territorial planning, sovereignities and well common to the Government, concretely to the Department of Territories and Sustainability, in a context in which, for us, there are two basic questions of exceptionality. We already mentioned it to the first Member we presented in his parliamentary office as the Constituent CUP, which I defended, I exposed myself. For a band, an encouragement of economic indicators and systemic metabolism in general; this allows, we said, to open a process of rethinking what we have done in the territories to create some new structures. For another band, a moment of political exceptionality in the construction of which are the foundations of a future republic. Since the CUP - Constituent Creed, how can we say we face this question? So basically from what they can call the three mistakes, to "resist," to "recompose and recreate." Resist the last pitfalls of senile capitalism, types of Barcelonas Worlds and questions of these; recompose evil territorial structures throughout this process, especially these last years, and create and recreate new territorial structures that remain resistant, that we can guarantee sovereignty and that, moreover, generate new pockets of occupation and, above all, that remain resistant in time. This – we have exposed you to a couple of months in this very same context – in a context of territorial planning or territorial legislation in which, for a band, we come with a very old law, from the year 83 – is a law that is thirty-three years old, already starts to have dogs like me, this law–; therefore, it is a law that, as you indicated to the Territorial Commission in its appearance, is a law that is from the government, they say, is being developed again together with urbanism. This law we have in '83 cost a lot to deploy from the point of view of territorial planning. The same general territorial plan of Catalonia, contemplated in that law, does not approve until fourteen years later, year 95 – or so, it cost a little, make a general territorial plan. But it is that the partial territorial plans, which concretely and precisely define each of the spaces of the different territorial, functional areas of Catalonia, were not approved until the 2006-2010 period, huh? ; therefore, between twenty-four and twenty-seven years in just saying that they had to be done. This, in a context of urban metabolism that has caused, therefore, this latest urban growth, which has followed the maximum we have done in the whole history of humanity together. I mean, the last twenty-five, thirty years, forty, we've built more, we've transformed more territories than the whole history of humanity before. But, of course, we said that this territorial planning... that things have happened to the territory, right? Who actually executed this territorial planning? And we presented a motion in this sense, which raised questions related to sectoral planning. Let's say: "The territory has been transformed through reel plans, through regadius plans, through industrial plans. For another band, which has transformed the territory is urban planning. That's a little bit of the same thing that happened to the territorial law in '83. That is to say, starting from a basic law of urbanism of the year 2002– therefore, it is fourteen years old–, that has been suffering successive modifications, refuse texts, etcetera, fact that has perverted it, we understand, from that law, right? , of the essence of that law of the year 2002. And we understand that one of the elements that have perverted this law most, has distorted it most, is, we could say, the use and abuse of the instrument of urban master plans, which has been given it a certain priority, like a territorial transformation tool these last few years. In fact, we would focus this inquiry on this question of urban master plans, above all. You, I repeat, said in your parliamentary office that you were working in the Law of Territories and Urbanism. Since the CUP - Creed Constituent we think that we should give it the highest priority, because of this exceptional issue that we talked about a moment ago. That is to say, if we are building a new country, then we must have good new laws, which in this case will be the basis of the new territorial policy in Catalonia. We did not see this yesterday, in the plan of government presented by President Puigdemont, we did not see it. Therefore, we understand that you are not being given the highest priority that you did manifest in your parliamentary office, too. In change, as we say, these different urban master plans are being prioritized, as a tool for transformation of the territory in an effective way. That is to say, we have approved partial territorial plans, the last ones, in 2010, and we are finding that these urban master plans are transforming them, they are distorting them, too. These urban master plans contain a series of critical aspects, we might say. For a band, I say, I just said, distort these partial territorial plans, huh? The last legal change envisaged in the 2012 law states that urban planning plans may violate, if the planning committee so authorizes, the indications of these partial territorial plans. The same happens when these urban master plans overlap and exceed the municipal urban planning plans that have approved the different joints and that have, therefore, a whole process and a whole dynamic, right? , to settle projects of territories at the municipal level. That's what this urban master plan is all about, because that's what it's about. In addition, they are urban management plans that minimize and do not properly integrate environmental processing and all the indications that from different environmental assessment reports are coming. They have little transparency: they are promoted by the Government, drawn up by the Government and approved by the Government, right? I eat it, I eat it, yeah? A POUM, therefore, has a whole process of transparency, publicity; a partial territorial plan, likewise. A director plate... if the government does it, it's done approving the government. In addition, they dilute these processes of citizen participation and, the attachments, or they are not answered directly, or if they are answered, they are not answered properly. Moreover, the master plans promote the transformation and artificialization of the territory, of large quantities of soil, in account of entering to repair, to recosse, to reconnect those questions, right? Let us say that they must be recomposed. That's to say, the urban director's tool can be a good tool if it's used well, that's to say, if it's used for what we mean... so it's repairing this territory, retrieving it. And in this sense we have some urban master plans that they have done. In short, we could say that it means, the urban master plans, one – and I believe that I can affirm with all roundness – the liberalisation of the hidden soil. It allows to transform only the margin of what says a partial territorial plan and the margin of what the different municipal planning plans say. An urban master plan, an approved copy, does not imply the imminent modification of the affected POUM, derives it from a future. It's like, transgressing this principle of municipal autonomy. Moreover, it is a tool that has used and abused the concept of general interest in the benefit, almost always, of very concrete interests, which are almost always business interests. And, besides, we have one curious thing, which is not new, I mean, it's always happened, right? : that the different public information processes or the approvals are almost always night and summer, huh? , at times of summer, when people, say, are disconnected, or at times at times at no length. That's pretty common practice. All these critical questions will be reflected in some examples of some already approved urban master plans and some that are in processing, to see, right? Which are the delicate aspects of each of these master plans. In the case of the Barcelona-Catalunya Circuit, approved in 2006, say that we currently have twenty-five approved urban master plans, of which six have approved since the year 2010, this is to say, with responsibility for the government of Convergence and First Union and of Together for the Yes further, which are six cases. And we have these cases, say, more conflict. In this day of the Circuit de Barcelona-Catalunya, approved the year 2006, here is generated an intense occupation of the territory, of agricultural areas; an overoffer of industrial soil is generated in a place that has a lot of empty polygons – what we say: the PDU could have been used to re-use this currently vacant industrial soil. The Pla Urbanist Director of the Llobregat Delta, also approved this 2016, with an occupation of agricultural interest alone, which is a strategic only, especially in a context of energy crisis, here I have already explained, to the Committee on Agriculture, when there was the year 2008 the increase in the price of the oil barrel, that there was a crisis of transporters that deplete the markets and that in Mercabarna the only agricultural product that came there for two weeks, the only food product, in fact, was the result of the Llobregat horta. Therefore, at the hour of the Llobregat, at the Parc Agrari del Llobregat, not a land more artificialized. And, on the other hand, this Urban Director promotes the occupation of agricultural land with this strategic agricultural interest. The Pla Urbanist Director of Cerdanyola del Vallès, approved on 14th: an ecological corridor between Collserola and the mountain range of Sant Llorenç de Munt and Obac is interrupted; residential growth is promoted on the side of the mountain or on the side of abocadors who present environmental problems. Clearly, they can't put cases next to a mouthpiece that emits toxins, that's a whole logical question, and this board of directors planted it this way. It is generating an oversupply of habitat in Cerdanyola, which there is a lot of empty floors – the same as we do in the previous case. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I have a few more cases that I will continue on the second side, and we will ask who our proposals are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.179.0	Thank you, Congressman. The words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr Josep Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.180.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, here are two different elements. A first are economic models, and here, obviously, we have different, significantly different visions. What we need to look at is that there are some standards of the game that are known, that are recognized and that allow that depending on the variety, depending on which is the will expressed by the people to the ballot box, each political party, each political option, with certainty, can deploy concrete models, I insist, on which, in many aspects, we can differ with respect to what you plant. He focused on this inquiry with two different perspectives. First he spoke of the law of territories, and I would like to use this first turn to explain how we want to guide this law of territories, which will be the basic elements we want to incorporate, which to a very good extent will give answers to some of the needs, to some of the concerns that you raised. And in the second term – I will look to see if I have enough time in this first intervention; if not, in the second – to enter into the concrete urban master plans that you were planning and dispelling some elements of misinformation, that I want to believe that you are uninformed, that some of the statements you make in relation to these urban master plans, these urban master plans, do them simply out of knowledge, because, if not, we would be concerned. It is to say, when, for example, in the Pla urbanistic director of the delta of the Llobregat says that it is using only agricultural for such a development in other uses, there is simply a severe misinformation. Or when he explains that the approval of these urban master plans is carried out or the processing in the summer, for example, in the month of August, so, there is simply no knowledge, because he knows perfectly well that urban legislation at these times in this country simply impossible, declares an urban processing in the month of August impossible. But when this was repeated a thousand times, in the end there is the feeling of saying: "The most complicated moments are used for such a... No, no, listen, these processings are impeccably fanciful, and they are fanciful with the consent of the territory, and they are fanciful of the most strict complicity with the affected assemblies. You will not find any urban director we are managing or have managed that has been raised against the criteria or the will of a certain group. Yes, there were some urban master plans, for example those linked to strategic residential areas..., yes, those, those that were oriented in this sense. But these urban management plans to promote economic activity or to address certain circumstances..., for example, the Pla director of the mining of Bages, the fem and we are managing it from the more strict complicity with the territory, because, if not, he would not have any sense. I'm sorry you came into this question and wanted to talk to you about the law of the territory. You explained it very well: this law of the territory is trying to update the Law of Territorial Order, of one band, and the Law of Urbanism, of the other band. You're right, Mr. Saladié: the Law of Urbanism has changed it practically every year, since it was approved in 2002, every year, there's the change..., there's the 2.0, the 2.1..., all possible changes, and this generates a scene of insecurity. So, let's go find a new instrument. Who are the two main axes on which we want to bast this bill of law of the territory of Catalonia? – I take advantage to give the welcome to the Director General of Ordenació del Territori e Urbanisme. First: to move from growth in extension to urban recycling. The excessive classification of the urban extension soil of the past decades has caused us to have a lot of extension only without developing. What do we want to do? Prioritize intervention over the built city placing emphasis on urban recycling, grow within the already built and not use more alone. This is a first set-up. Second: to guarantee the efficiency and competitiveness of the territorial system, to give a supramunicipal view. Not always 948 local strategies, which correspond to all the municipalities of Catalonia, are effective or competitive on a local scale..., on a global scale. We need to find supramunicipal governance formulas and enhance supralocal planning and management of open spaces, areas of economic activity, complex urban systems. Third line of work: ensure greater integration of environmental, social and economic variables in urban planning. These are the three basic pillars on which we want to work, and in a very, very concrete way, social cohesion. And environmental integration doesn't have to be understood as a limit, but as the way we develop what we want. This is an absolutely substantial paradigm shift. Fourth line of work: influence the market of soil to ensure accessibility to habitat and economic activity. What we want is to set up means to guide the control of prices through the public execution of urban activities and to create the mechanisms that make it possible to achieve the objective of access to housing. Thus, we want to enhance the maintenance of ownership of public land holdings that are generic and avoid solo retention practices. Five lines of work: strengthening the function of urbanism, the social function of property and public leadership in land policy. Urbanism is a public service, urbanism is an extraordinary tool for generating the social, economic and environmental conditions that enable us to make a country more sustainable in these three vectors. Six: adapt the instruments to the diversity of territories, of interventions and of conjunctures, to attend to the diversity of the territory. In Catalonia, 63 per cent of the municipalities have fewer than two thousand inhabitants, and 78 per cent do not reach the five thousand inhabitants, and therefore we must be able to find a balance between standardizing urbanistic parameters and the ability to model them at each of the objectives. Set repte: reformulate the general planning instruments. Fixed that we have a processing, that you put it in value, but it is excessively extended over time. In the fourteen years of the existence of the Law of Urbanism, we have only managed to make one_third of the Catalan municipalities able to complete their municipal urban planning plans. We need an instrument with a strategic view, with a structural view, which is faster to process and, above all, let us, let us say, adapt to the needs of every moment. And, therefore, this is the idea of a plan of structure with the objective that it is a plan with a vocation of estabilisation and permanence. Let's put the solo in play at the moment it touches and with the right parameters. They managed, only in 2014, 409 punctual modifications of general planning, of the POUMs, and this is very complicated to be able-to-fit to what the territory needs at the precise moment. And so before we talked about the structure plan, now we're proposing the idea of an operating plan. New objective: to start a planning of open spaces that is proactive, projectual and strategic. Many times, planning of non-urban land in urban planning tends to be residual, descriptive or conjunctural. We need to focus on the design and design of green infrastructures; we need to be able to incorporate this proactive element; we need to incorporate, as you said, strategic objectives such as food sovereignty, energy independence, water resource, landscape, ecosystem services. And if objective, it draws up a line of work of this law of the territory, that we have it sufficiently advanced – and we will complete the compromise that I myself acquired before this Parliament at the appearance to the Commission of Territories and the Commission of the Environment –, but objective: to manage in another way the park built in open spaces, which are, to the non-urbanized soil of Catalonia, at 94_percent of the national territory, of the territories of our country, there is around 450,000 buildings, which is equivalent to a half of fifteen buildings per square kilometre. What we want is to encourage recycling and the improvement of the existing and underutilized park and, at the same time, promote the right of restitution in the cessation of use. These are the lines on which we are building this law of the territory. I believe that in this scheme some of the ideas that you have made come in perfectly – there they come in perfectly – and, therefore, what we want to do is to get up to date with these two instruments that are the fruit of a concrete time, of a concrete situation. But we are very clear that this planning, let's just say, will not redeem us. You have – and I finish, Madam President – a confidence to say: « From the planning to be preventable... There were approved territorial plans, but we were not approved – and I am speaking, in the name of the one hundred and thirty-five Members, of shutting down the real estate cylinder, despite the fact that those territorial plans were approved; unfortunately, it was not able to do so. With the urban master plans of the AREs, only three of the more than thirty that were promoted have culminated. Therefore, only with this rigid planning will we not get out of it. This is the pattern change that we want to propose. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.181.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr Sergi Saladié.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.182.0	Thank you, President. I'll finish what I had from the different master plans, and then we'll go into the final considerations. In the case of the Urban Master Plan for the development of road infrastructure, railways and, above all, logistics of the regions of Upper and Lower Penedès, approved year 12, here is also promoted or, in any case, an occupation succeeds, or an occupation of agricultural land is envisaged through an occupation that is precarious, isn't it? The labor market, as is all it has to do with logistics. In the case of the strategic residential areas, you have referred, here it went beyond the municipal autonomy, there was no consensus in many joints, and not always, more, they were located in areas where there were some need for suitable housing. Of the urban master plans that we currently have in processing, which are fourteen, we highlight three with the most conflict. The first is the mining activity at Bages, which started the 2015 process. We understand that this is a clean house in front of a company, that it is Iberpotash, that it has to complete some sentences and that it has to comply with environmental regulations. And the PDU is a very environmentalist PDU, that is to say, it focuses very much on the environmental part, and we understand that the company already has to complete these feelings and these environmental requirements on its behalf. We understand, therefore, that it is a PDU that is trying to promote the continuity of this activity without excessively correcting these environmental impacts that have been generating over time. In the famous PDU of the former Barcelona World, now named « Centre Recreatiu i Turístic de Vila-seca i Salou, started in 2014, or approved initially in 2014, we understand that here the Government acts as a finca corridor– we have already said here in a motion of the Popular Party – as a real estate promoter of a private company, in this case of a company financed like « the Caixa, that has problems to get out of that place; the part of Port Adventure has already come, the part of the hotels, to some Italian companies, and now here I want to go, and the Generalita what it is to do is to broker so that I can make this sale of the land. Moreover, they promote the game, which is a question that we, like the CUP - Crida Constituent combat. And, besides, here he spoke, in all the negotiating process that we had together for the Yes and the UPC, of a consensus that we do not know where it is, because we see headlines, we see different issues that have happened, and we have not been told. And that's a question we're gonna have to talk about one day seriously. The Urban Airport Manager of the Cerdanya Airfield; does not allow the shipment to be consulted on affected vehicles, is processed from a scale to the collective interest and without informing the affected local authorities. Here are complaints about the assemblies, or some affected assemblies, that are not informed in due course. We defend the territories and, moreover, the popular management of resources, and we ask ourselves about which territories we will start to speak in full process constitute, if what we are doing..., through these instruments, not only, but through these instruments, we are continually collecting it. We will not get out of the crisis, from this crisis that we are living in, with the same practices and attitudes that we have brought to it, that is, with more totxo and more artificialization of the territory. We need to reinvent, we need to do different things, we need to recreate different questions from what we've done. That is why we, like CUP - Crida Constituent, are coming from this question to a Member of Parliament, that we are going to set up in 15 days' time, where we are going to ask for the moratorium on all the urban planning plans that are currently under way until the law on territories and urbanism is approved, because we understand that the urban planning plans of the future Catalan Republic must be based on what we can agree on, not only in its parliament, but also through this new law. Therefore, we understand that it is a good political practice, a good example of a new way of making territories, a new way of making territorial politics, doing so in this way. We will also ask for a review of the different methodological and procedural processes in the development of these urban master plans so that they respond to the common good, eh? , to this famous general interest, but that is real and that, moreover, incorporate in a way binding all processes of citizen participation, strategic environmental assessment and that, moreover, before its definitive approval, pass through its parliament to find consensus. I mean, we want more transparency and we want more participation than more agents better, before submeter's, a director board, at its definitive approval. We also call for the revocation and revision of already approved urban management plans, specifically five that I have already mentioned – Circuit de Barcelona - Catalunya, delta del Llobregat, Centre Direccional de Cerdanyola del Vallès, logistics of the Alt and Baix Penedès, and that of the strategic residential areas, because it adapts to these criteria that I have just enunciated. And, finally, we will also present..., so we will ask that the Catalan Parliament urge the Government to present in its parliament the law of territories and urban planning as soon as possible, as we will do with the law of agricultural land alone, which are, I say, two laws that we did not see yesterday appear to them in the form of government that has been presented and we think that they are one of the bases that must guarantee the full sovereignty of the country, that it is not only sovereignty or political independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.183.0	Thank you, Congressman. The word has the advisor, Mr. Josep Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.184.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen..., honourable Member, fixed the contradiction that you make, says: "We complain that processing is not enough to guarantee – the processing that is done by the PDU, then I will talk about it – "but we want the bill to come in right away. Listen, the processing of a bill – and you, as a Member, know it perfectly well – is different from the processing of a bill, in which there is no way to forward public information, participation, or delegation; in a bill, yes. The compromise we have is to present a bill of law. And a bill of law of transcendence that this law of the territory has to be technically very well done, with a very broad participation process, with various sectors. What have we been up to at this time? This law is not from a department of territory and sustainability, from the Directorate General of Urbanism; it does not work that way, there are not a couple or three public servers, that you will work, that make this law, but it is done with universities, it is done with professional colleges, it is doing an extensive participation process. And in these moments we are exhausting it. And from here there's a whole public information process. And what he's going to say to us is, "We want to go fast, jump today, while we're at it all. So, no, no; listen, we'll do it with the rhythms that correspond, we'll do it well, like we do things in this country, and we'll do them well. And with regard to the processing of these urban master plans, I believe that this precautionary measure is not necessary, that we do not share it in any way, because the current system is a mechanism in which you have guaranteed all these aspects. And that's what we need to be able to explain and move people. We are talking about processes that are absolutely guaranteed and processes that start from the basis of the participation of the local world. I insist, you will not see the urban director at this recent stage that he wanders and speaks against the will of the assemblies, because the assemblies participate from the zero moment: we create technical commissions and executive commissions of nature, one, technical, the other, political, that they are the one that are advancing with the whole process. And, therefore, because the initial approval and the final approval correspond to the councillor; the interim proceedings, without the agreement of the joint meetings, do not approve the urban director. And you're going to say..., with this approach, to say: "This part of local autonomy that disagrees with my country's political vision does not share it. So, what can I say is the Town-Dry Assembly or the Town-Dry Assembly in relation to the PDU of the Village-Dry and Town-Dry Tourist Centre, how I do not follow my model, this part of local autonomy – which you apparently defended – "does not interest me. Or with regard to the PDU of the Circuit de Catalunya, which has the participation, the agreement, the consent of the three municipalities that have intervened in it; he says: "But as they do not think well as we think, neither do we care. This part of local autonomy, I don't just see it clear; so, what happens all this way. Listen, we're managing urban master plans that incorporate the mobility vector, the environmental vectors, everything that refers to sectoral policies, with a public information that's very dilated over time. It is asking us, through a young man and through a future surrender to the law of territories, to ask us to process it very, very, very, very quickly..., to ask us to do what we are already doing at these times, which is this system, these mechanisms. Another thing is that the consensus that generates, therefore, you say, no part, let's say, of the..., or « does not coincide with what I defend. It's legitimate – it's legitimate – but, man, what you can't say is that things are going through, let's say it, in a dark way and imposing it on the territory, because, if not, you don't have a sense of it, a sense of it that we put it in those terms. We..., these urban master plans for the creation of economic activity, from impulse to economic activity, what they claim is precisely this, is to create the conditions to be able to get out of the crisis. And, in a very good measure, shield the protection of the environment. I look at the Pla Urbanist Director of the Circuit de Catalunya; I look at the hectares that through this instrument are perfectly shielded – green areas, open spaces; they are shielded and protected. In what terms we're planting it. And, therefore, what we say to him is: we do not refer to laws of the future that would help us a lot in this country; we use well, as we are doing, the instruments we have today, with respect to local autonomy absolutely scrupulous and with standards of the game that guarantee the participation and decision-making of the citizenry. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.185.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about public communication media]] [[300-00036/11]] The eighth item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on public communication media, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.186.0	Thank you, Madam President. Look, it's not the first question to the government to be asked on TV3 from the People's Party in this Parliament, it's obvious. Do you know why there are citizens in Catalonia who have decided whether or not to see or draw this channel? Do you know why even other catalans have good hearing results, taking into account that they have fewer structures and resources? I'll tell them. They feel offended; they feel offended to see how from their public television they get the information manipulated, with news interested in the interviews, as happened the other day with Mrs Pastor when she went through each of the investments made by the Spanish Government in Catalonia in the field of infrastructure. The information is no longer informational, it has become an author's forum, a chronicle of opinion. The bonds of nationalism and the culture of separation policy are expanded with special coverage – this is from Scotland, from Corsica, all the while nationalism has stalled. Political tertules are formed by opinionators, especially those who are only independentists. And you will say to me, "No, no, because you were there. I knew it. I knew it. But the reality is that even the same CAC in a report recognizes that last June there was one. CAT where there were only independent opinionaries. And by some of these coincidences... [[Funnel veils]] – yes, yes, yes, by some of these coincidences – there is one that is not, as was my case a couple of years ago, therefore, it is not worrying, it is not worrying that there is a very balanced table at the front, with a counter five opinionators, five, that, with a copet of hand from time to time, with the moderator, in case something escapes, will already be told that the propaganda, therefore, must be absolutely net, a balanced and plural thing: five against one. Catalan public television, like radio, meaning doubt is a structure of its State. This has become clear to us in the People's Party and to all those citizens and all those parties that we represent citizens who do not believe in the way of separation or in their State, in their imagined State. It's a national construction tool. That's what I was saying in Pujol, or that's not a novelty, is it? What do you say? But in the end the reality is closer to a great dictatorship of the social deconstruction of Catalonia than to a building tool. Since the government systematically confound that TV3 is an independent, pluralistic, public service tool, among other things because of TV3, if there is life beyond separatism, it is absolutely anecdotal. It is his hall of political propaganda machines, to indoctrinate the Catalan citizens that his only political task – previous and necessary –... to get Catalonia to separate itself from the rest of Spain. They think you're an unreal mirage: that all Catalan society is independent. Liar! If they fail to homogenize this idea, that all Catalonia is the same and all Catalonia is independent, and that there is no plural society, which they do is criminalize, ridicule, lack those who think differently, and insult associations between TV3 programs. And the one who comes to criticize separation as a political chimera is either a traitor to the country or a fatxa. He also blames his inability to govern the rest of Spain. That's a classic, isn't it? I TV3, which the Catalan citizens cost a lot, a lot and a lot of money, have only converted it, exclusively as a propaganda tool. And under an excuse, a false excuse for freedom of expression, it encourages a separate speech, of discord; it feeds the conflict between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, between the same Catalans, where the best possible speech, and that which the director of TV3 and the president of the council gather and defend, is that which consists of a very simple thing, which is: to feed the culture of hate to everything that has to do with the idea of Spain. I'm sorry, huh? I'm sorry, I said, "Spain, why is that, if it's said to TV3, according to TV3's style book, it's supposed to be "Spanish State, isn't it? A few days ago we held the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation Control Commission and Mrs Llorach asked for 33_million euros more than she already has in the budget, while bearing in mind that the budget had already increased by 3.37_per_cent and just a few days after we know that the contract to external producers has increased up to 32_million euros a year, with people who were part of the house, with people who were professionally born and formed in the house – 32_million euros. It cannot be said that Catalan public television is that of all Catalans, among other things for the ideological line it has. But it can also be said that it is a magnificent management that has been made of TV3; it is the first autonomous television in the name of staff: 2,312 workers; the same that they have of other public televisions, the sum of Andalusian television, Basque television and that of the Community of Madrid, together. Don't you want to say that they've overflowed, that we need to rethink the model, that in Catalonia we have a great problem of disability and it's the community that invests the most in public communication media? How many CAPs could be opened in the afternoons with all this bad money? The reality is that many, like schools, in barracks. That's the reality. "The sea of God no, the sea of God, is that a government devotes so much money to communication media when there are much more important social emergencies. And you have increased the misrepresentation of resources in Catalan public television to consciousness, among other things for which what I gave them before: it is an essential tool to extend the independence message. And what they constantly repeat: "We still don't get there, do we? , – we are not yet there – but we need to work a little more because of the fact that we cannot expand the social base of independence, which today does not exist in Catalonia. You have secured all the instruments to make the Catalan citizen believe that this from the split with the rest of Spain is the revolution of the shadows; that the separatist process is the focus of interplanetary attention, go, that the world is looking at us – look at us, look at us – that who feels Spanish and Catalan is also to be ashamed; that this government will make history in Catalonia, beyond the reality of generating so little trust and so little credibility that it is the only autonomous community that the European Bank will not help. Do you know what happened the other day to the morning program? Do they know what exactly the reflex of what nationalism does? Cream it all: cream our rights; cream heterogeneity and social plurality; cream coexistence; cream illusions– lies, suprebia–; less others. That's what assures us a well-understood hedgehog. Can you imagine what would have happened if a lady had cremated herself? What would have happened if you had cremated a statue? What would have happened if you had cremated a Bible or an alcora? What would have happened? So, that, you'd say it's creative anger, that it's moody? Surely you would have put the cry in heaven, as we did, as we did the other day, because among other things it is reasonable. [[Widow's remorse.]] So don't say, you, through your president, as you said the other day to the interview you gave to The Sixth, that this is freedom of expression, because it is not – it is not –, nor freedom of expression, nor a humorous gag. Among other things, it is an insult, that more than cost the Catalans approximately forty-five thousand euros per year, in five minutes of exaltation of sectarianism, intolerance, bad taste and fanaticism of Mrs Moliner..., social criticism can be made of respect. Make social criticism and not make happenings or disqualifications from TV3, which is paid with the money of all Catalans, is the obligation, the obligation of public communication media. And I know that they didn't like it – I heard a lot of voices talking –, that they don't like to feel the criticism and that they don't like to be asked to demand that measures be taken, that this never happens again. And that, you know? This usually happens when one looks at the look and the reflex that this look does not like you and amazes yourself.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.187.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, the councillor, Mrs. Neus Munté, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.188.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs García, I use some of your last words, when you spoke a moment ago about lies, demagogicism, wisdom, underprivilegedness. And I add to that ignorance, deep ignorance and deep demagicism that you have served in this inquiry, at least in this first part – I'm sure it will continue like this in the second place – which in any case has not been surprising to me or I think that for many of the Members of this House. You and your parliamentary group, based on repeating one and a thousand times a lie, want to turn it into truth, but there are things that are much more compelling, much more scientific, and therefore much more reliable than your opinion and your perception, that is respectable, but that you do not have the absolute truth. There are audience indices, independent studies, the control that is carried out by different entities and bodies over the media of the Catalan corporation..., show that it is a very plural media. In fact, TV3, the most plural television in the State [[relays]] As much as the weights, as much as they fight... they could show a little more education, if they're so kind, because we don't get used to laughing when you come in. In any case, let's start this nice intervention that we can talk about public communication media. It was not weeks ago that I was able to do so as well as to respond to an inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, for sure, with a whole other purpose. Public communication means which are a fundamental part of a society which, like ours, is plural and wants to be well informed; communication means which, from the Government of the Generality, we will continue to defend, without moving any one-thousand-threshold in this defense, and abetting it because they are a solid model of success from its leadership, its quality, its credibility, its professional rigour and its absolute reference. And we can talk one more time – and there's no reason to repeat it another time – which are the audience indexes, both radio and public television. Catalonia Ràdio has achieved the best audience of the past fifteen years, according to the first wave of the barometer of Catalonia, of the EGM : 643,000 people listen to Catalonia Ràdio every day, a xifra that confirms the continued growth of this emitter and that represents an increase of 7_per_cent respect to the same one of a year ago. We can talk about information, like the morning of Catalonia Radio, but also many other programs that present a very high ratings index, and that grew. Catalunya Information obtained 117,000 followers daily, Catalonia Music also increases its audience, and so we can continue. We could also continue with TV3, to which you referred – then I'll refer to it, because you wanted to end, logically, huh? Speaking of Mornings and Mrs. Empar Moliner, we'll do it, there's no problem – but remind her that TV3 is the audience leader for seven months as a result, that closes the March with a 12_per_cent quota, that after six years of television leadership ends March is the leader in solo, that it is the most widely-said channel of thirty-one days of the month, and insists on, also, the leading audience on the internet of telenews or the night-to-day, to highlight some programs. You referred to the interviews, you referred to the information, let me tell you that they are the favourites of the Catalan audience, that the Middle Telenews has been a leader on twelve occasions, in the past month of March; the week-end TN in September, and so on. And that they are, together with Channel 3/24, the obligatory reference to follow the daily news, and exceptional facts, which have unfortunately occurred in the past, such as the tragic accident of Freginals or the storm of Brussels, which had an immediate, constant, informational treatment and which deserved a follow-up and a very good appreciation. But, beyond this control, that the same... – and you made reference to it – the same president of the Audiovisual Council, Mr. Roger Lopacher, presented the divinations passed to Parliament the memory of the year 2015... And he clearly explained what was the ratio of themes more addressed to the TN, which continues to encapsulate it the international information with more than 20_percent of the time – the past 2015, as I said –; information on electoral calls, in the second term; cultural information, in the third term; economic information and questions related to the Catalonia-Spain relationship cauen and occupy the fifth place in these themes more treated from the TV3 telenews of the year 2015. I think that breaks his speech and his mantra that this is a TV that only addresses and exclusively to the independenceists. This is not so, because I doubt that these excellent audience indexes, which are maintained and improved in many cases, are the ones that are if many people are excluded from what is their ideological line or their sensitivities. But there are more questions to bear in mind that I would like, logically, to comment. You said something very big, you hinted that people are out, to workers, in this case, to TV3 professionals to think differently. That's definitely fake. This, honourable Member, is a shame that you say in your parliamentary office; it is utterly false. I don't know if you, in change, remember a journalist, a very good journalist, Cristina Puig, who was accompanied by Spanish Television precisely to think differently. [[some applause]] - No, no, no, And there is a court – a court – that precisely gave him the reason. You say that programs, some TV3 programs, insult Catalans and Catalans. I could make it a list of programs as well as public television, we could talk about Telemadrid, for example – I don't know if it sounds like you – where Nazism has been compared with nationalism with total impunity. And we have not seen that it is condemned, we have not seen that these statements or manifestations are condemned, we have not seen that it is apologizing for the fact that they have been pronounced, nor that these videos have been removed from the videos of the chain. And we're going where you finally wanted to go, which is Mrs. Empar Moliner's job, the 13th of April. Go ahead with my support for Mrs. Empar Moliner before all those criticisms that wanted to demonize him. Remembering that Televisión de Catalunya in a statement regretted that part of the content of the section of Mrs. Empar Moliner, which is said "The comment, could be offensive to some people and removed the images from it, which would not be re-emerged by the media of the corporation. Remember that it was about a complaint, a symbolic cream of a book with false fronts of the Spanish Constitution. But what's the big deal, Mrs. Garcia? I think you're interested a little, as you're interested a little, surely what I'm saying to you because you're not listening to me at the moment. [[Widow's remorse.]] It is a complaint, it is a complaint made by Mrs. Empar Moliner before a ruling of the Constitutional Court, which was provoked by the suspension of the People's Party Government on the part of the legislation that enabled this Government to fight against the poor energy. Allow me to highlight precisely this. This is unconstitutional, that the Government of Catalonia wants to deal with the poor energy and guarantee sub-administration to vulnerable families, according to you, who challenge it, to bring it to the Constitutional Court because it automatically suspends it, it is unconstitutional. It turns out that you have very fine skin, honourable Member, very fine for everything that suits you, like your Government, the Spanish Government, which is also working for what suits you. It is in place at the time of taking decisions that are neither taken nor expected; it is in operation and that is why it does not convene the Security Board, at such delicate times as we are living at these times from an international security perspective; it is in operation not to submerge 'the parliamentary control of the Congress of Deputies, but in turn it is not in order to take decisions as unfair as the fixing of the soustre de déficit, which must be completed by the autonomous communities or so as to bring to the Constitutional Court laws or regulations like this, such as the modification of the Code of Consumption. So, understand, clearly understand that the plot of the problem and to what Mrs. Empar Moliner brings to make this symbolic cream of a book that emulates the Spanish Constitution, but that it is not, as you know perfectly well..., which is to denounce this tremendous injustice, this decision of the Government of the State, that I see that you are not impressed by the least, but that, on the other hand, it has remarkable consequences. But before this tremendous injustice and this suspension the Government of the Generality has and will have, say what its Government says, say what the Constitutional Court says, I insist, firm will and firm will decide to continue protecting the most vulnerable people and, obviously, also to continue defending freedom of expression. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.189.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, has the word "Mrs. Esperanza García".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.190.0	Thank you, President. Miri, Mrs. Munté, I even doubted it, I say: "I don't know if I've made an inquiry about TV3 or we've already been in election campaign mode, that maybe he wants to introduce himself to the generals behind Mr. Homs and he's already doing well here in the lobby. That said, I very much support the explanations that he gives us, among other things the audience data. You tell us: "Oh, it's TV3..., and Catalonia Radio are the most felt communication media in Catalonia. I say, "That's not true; it's Telecinco, it's Antenna 3, it's Spanish Television. Now, you introduce a matis, and the matis is between the Catalan audience. What's that supposed to mean? The hearing he's an independentist? Because I have to tell you one thing: for 2 million independent votes..., not just the independenceists, all of them, they don't see TV3, they don't hear Catalunya Radio. And so they give it the same data that you gave here. You have also spoken of another question that I believe... Go, tell me and set me as an example of other public televisions in other parts of Spain; and I say it – and I say it –: comparisons as these are rejectable and condemnable. What steps did you take when Mr. Rajoy and Mrs. Soraya were taken in Poland as Nazis? What measures were taken? What did they say? Did they put the critter in the cell? No, they didn't. The thin skin – the thin skin – you have, among other things, because they serve the argument of the poor energy in Catalonia, and they make two mistakes. First: is there only poor energy in Catalonia? Isn't there the rest of Espanya? Yeah. What happens is that other governments take action, they take action against the energy poverty. I'm telling you now. [[remorse of the voice]] - I'm telling you now...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.191.0	Please – please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.192.0	It doesn't get that far. If you, among other things...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.193.0	We respect..., we respect the vortex of words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.194.0	If you..., if you... – calm, calm –, if you, among other things, should be the first to denounce – except for this pact of government that you have with the Lords of Junts for the Yes – that the Generality has only – only – made use of the 25_percent of the presuppositional game destined, precisely, to fight against this poor woman. They should be ashamed of themselves, as much to the Lords of Junts for the Yes as to you who collect them. Look, the reality is that Catalan public television, we're not asking them to follow a television that has an ideological line that the People's Party defends, or much less. What we are asking of them is that they comply with the law, with the very law of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, which complements the performance of public service, which they do with respect, with criteria of objectivity, with impartiality, respecting social and ideological pluralism. Exactly the one who doesn't make now, just the one who doesn't make now. And look, this is a legal obligation, this is not a wish that the People's Party does from this rostrum, nor much less. You've decided to give the gold tag to TV3 because you're spending money. Two; they have also decided to give her the activist's honor card; go, they have done so in such a way, that they have even decided to designate Mrs. Llorach, who is an old Convergence activist, who is not only not aesthetic– is not aesthetic– and has absolutely nothing to do with her professional ability, but it is not appropriate, let us say, for a public one. They have promoted, without rest, that TV3 and the rest of the media of the corporation make free advertisements of their actions of government and of the confrontational search that have made use of you since the elections of 27 September. Look, I'm asking him to comply with the law and to vacate with a lot of cure. Do they know what it's like to generate and breed and feed hate? This causes yesterday, at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, the lords and young people of the Catalan Civil Society to be attacked, among other things because what is promoted with hatred, with the culture of hatred, is intolerance, fanaticism, violence. And in that there's no going back, a conret and germinate shot is very hard to stop. Do it, because it's his obligation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.195.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There's the word "conseller," Mrs. Neus Munté.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.196.0	All right. Thank you very much, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam Member of the Commission, in order to close the chapter on energy poverty, I do not say again that it is an argument; it is not an argument, it is a cruel reality that affects many people. Obviously, within and outside Catalonia, the different governments are struggling with the instruments that we have at our side, but there is a government of the State that comes together, once and for all, to stick to the wheels and suspend, to challenge and, therefore, to suspend, ultimately, by an indirect way, all these regulations. But, as I said, you can continue with these initiatives that we like the Government, and with a broad support in this Parliament, we will continue to find a way to protect the most vulnerable people by the way..., with different regulations and with different programs that we will continue to drive. There's no problem, and I'm afraid that a few days from now we'll be talking about this issue again in this chamber, if it's not that you intercede and do something more than criticize everything that the Government of the Generality does. But I'm not talking about poor energy as an argument, or as an argumental appeal, because, unfortunately, it's something harder than that and you should know. Returning to the subject before us and to this question, I would like to highlight one point: you agree, once more, to criticise, therefore, the supposed lack of plurality of the corporation and its media; I would like to remind you that, while I am experiencing an unprecedented economic crisis that has forced the corporation to make a very important effort, with content of expenditure and with optimum resources, the leaders have maintained themselves; I am still feeling TV3, in concrete terms, the most valued generalist television for Catalans, with information that are leaders in credibility, confidence and impartiality; the same – I have reiterated before – respects Catalonia Radio. And we have the firm will to continue working to maintain this high level of quality, with these same words, Mrs. Nuria Llorach. Certainly, yes, the Democratic Convergence activist. I don't think that should be surprising to you, when a People's Party activist was appointed president of the Constitutional Court. So you, I don't know why it does [[applause]] These comparisons can be turned quickly – quickly – against. In any case, all the government's willingness to be on the side of the corporation with this, I insist, interest that it is possible to maintain this high level of quality and credibility, which, moreover, is contrasted with many points of view. Guarantee of plurality – I said it before – because our public media are under very great control. Surely it is the most controlled, most supervised public enterprise in Europe. It doesn't go the same way on other public televisions, I can assure you that too. Look, it's not the CAC – you've made reference, to this statutory, independent body. The CAC periodically raises its reports on the media of the Catalan Corporation, so we are not talking here, because you were able to discuss these reports sufficiently, also to the Parliament of Catalonia, in the committee that it was created ad hoc, the Commission for the Control of the Activities of the Corporation, also the Council of Contingencies and Programming of the Corporation, which is chosen for the Parliament of Catalonia and the appropriate professional councils of TV3 and Catalonia Radio. I suppose you also know what the position of the TV3 Professional Council was with respect to Mrs. Empar Moliner. If he didn't read it, I recommend you do it. In any case, the pluralism of the Catalan media, and of pride, is a fact because – as I said – they are the most analyzed public enterprises in Europe, there are no other bodies as analyzed. ACC prepares monthly follow-up reports, specific reports, as well as an annual report on the level of compliments of the Catalan corporation's public service missions. Just remind him that, before so many references, to the foreseeable proper general elections, we do not go back to whether we present ourselves here or there, or with one number or with another, and it is often more concerned with forming government and breaking up with this situation of inaction so terrible than the character of so long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.197.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] [[Question to the Government on the ruling of the Constitutional Court that annuls the decree of energy poverty and on the deployment of the Law 24/2015, urgent measures to address the emergence in the field of housing and energy poverty]] [[300-00038/11]] The aim of the agenda is: to ask the Government about the Constitutional Court's ruling that annuls the decree on energy poverty and on the deployment of the Law 24/2015, urgent measures to address the issue of energy in the field of housing and energy poverty. They will remember that there has been an alteration of the order of the day that we approved this morning; so now I would touch the new point, but we do the wish and then we will do the new one. To expose this inquiry, the words of Mr. Marc Solsona, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.198.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor, Members, Members..., well, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes we present this proposal, this inquiry, with the will to sum up and bring the position and also the attitude of our parliamentary group before the actual violation by the Constitutional Court of the Energy Poor Decree and before, also, the threat also effective that the Constitutional Court, at the instigations of the Spanish Government of the People's Party, may suspend and then annul Law 24/2015 urgent measures to address the emergence in the field of housing and energy poor. It is important, in this sense, that all parliamentary groups – and in particular those that we support the Government – can express, in their own parliament and on their own initiative, our firmest and round-up re-enact the annulment of this Energy Poor Decree and also our firmest commitment to continue to implement Law 24/2015. and make manifest, therefore, its real utility and its need. This rule is the tool that allows us to help people; it is the tool that we have equipped to help the most vulnerable people. These days of female intervention in this Parliament last July coincided, at that time, with the historic transcendence of being passed a law in fifteen days and agreed between the promoters, the citizens' plataforms and also the Catalan political representatives. They all agreed, at that time, that the repte was not so alone to agree with what, with who and how of the law; but the real repte was that the law and its deployment was real, effective and, above all, quick to apply. Despite the fact that some parliamentary groups sometimes verbalise the lack of rules deployment, it would be useful to do a little morning in this sense, since we need to deploy the second opportunity, which is already finished and, therefore, is already in place and, therefore, we must say that in order to apply the Law 24/2015 no rules need be deployed, but that it can already be applied practically in its entirety. And this is important to be so as to demonstrate the utility – already obvious – of this rule. Legislators and public servants like us have the obligation to guarantee basic rights and also, in the subject we are dealing with, basic sub-administrations. A parliament that has legislative capacity must be able to legislate, and with the annulment of the decree and with the possible suspension of the law, the Spanish Government will, through the Constitutional Court, de facto cancel the capacity of this Parliament to legislate, to legislate to help people. And that's what we think is serious. Many times, when people, citizens question us, ask us or ask us what politics is for, the policy response must always be that politics serves to help people. Therefore, neither a government nor a court can suspend, limit, annul or suppress the determination of this Parliament of Catalonia, the Government of the Generality and our parliamentary group to help the people. A law, the 24/2015, arose and driven by the people, assumed by the Parliament, approved unanimously; a law that gives tools to the Administration, but gives opportunities to the user; a law of these characteristics cannot be suspended. But what can't be is that, in full 21st century, a law of these goes over, and less so that it goes over by a functioning government. Look, and we saw this a few minutes ago, and we practically made a first minidebate on the law, on the subject of energy poverty. But we can discuss the economic asphyxiation of the Government of the State in Catalonia, we can talk or disagree with reference to what the Foreign Council should say or not, but what cannot be done, because it is unworthy, is also promoting social asphyxiation to our country. If the Government of the People's Party resorts to Law 24/2015 it will be promoting social asphyxiation, because it will be attacking the most vulnerable people. That is why, Commissioner, we are celebrating the Government's swiftness to make a government agreement to ensure, before these uncertainties, a package of legislative measures to respond to the energy poverty and also to housing needs. That is why, counsel, I would appreciate it if, in this intervention, in this communication that we have, so I can explain to you what these agreements are based on..., government agreement that was approved yesterday. Because, in short, that's what it's about; that's what it's about, it's explaining itself before people. And I wonder how you can explain or how you can explain, for example, the Spanish government that is obliged to pay six thousand euros to families that are likely to attend school in castles and, in change, wants to prevent emergency actions and social emergence to ensure sub-administration to vulnerable families. Do you know how much water or light waste you can pay with six thousand euros? Do we think that, all in all, what we're talking about requires the minimum aesthetics? I think, really, I don't. And that's why since the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes we are compromised with this law passed in Parliament, compromises and accomplices with ILP promoters and with the claims actions that are likely to generate. But above all, we want to be pro-active parliamentaryly, and also socially, to make public an injustice that directly affects people. With this law – and with a question, this morning, you, counsel, were able to answer it – you were able to help more than 33,000 families, avoiding sub-administration or helping to prevent them. This rule applies to local communities in order to be able to require banks and large housing units, and also to sub-government companies, which do not produce any denunciations or sub-government sizes without a social report. From the local world – and here, logically, it touches me a lot of props – people were already helping themselves before the norm, and, therefore, it will continue to help, already through direct help, mediation, housing bags or poor people's tables. Therefore, in this question, too, a double message: first of all, the frontal draft before this threat of suspension of the norm, but also a message of some guarantee, that from the government and from the local world will continue to feel responsible and solidarity with the people who are going through it badly. Dilluns began mobilizations of the ILP promoters before their members of the People's Party in preventive protest before what might be the suspension of the rule. Today, these same promoters are in Madrid, to the Congress of Deputies, asking the parliamentary groups for their commitment because in case the debate of the People's Party brings the norm to the Constitutional Court, at the moment that it has responsibilities, that it has to tend, it is automatically withdrawn. From Catalonia..., and this Parliament in its large majority agrees with these proposals that are being planned, today – have been planned this morning – to different parliamentary groups. And, therefore, from the government we also know, therefore, of the compromise and of the meetings that they have also had to bring it all to such effect. Mirin, the citizenry is engaged, deceiving and sometimes powerless. Do we contribute, from politics, to minimizing the effects of the crisis or to making them worse? It's a question that everyone would have to ask, too. But a simple way of helping not to make them worse would be to put local autonomy and, above all, the common sense, in front of the political short-sightedness, court-terminist, which contributes to more than permanent disaffection and chronic engagement in people's social issues. This inquiry, also in a way of communication and of a knowledge inn before the position and firmness of our parliamentary group, had this double view, in principle: it had a reactive view and a preventive view; it had a reactive view, from re-establishing the suspension of the decree, and preventive view before the prediction that the rule could be suspended. But he also had a willingness to give little to the fact that the Government could explain what is being done in these matters, what is being explained in the Government Agreement, and so, too, to put it, to put it clearly, bluntly and without doubt, the compromise of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes in the ongoing work to help the most vulnerable people and families. Thank you very much, and good afternoon. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.199.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply to the governess, Public Administrations and Habitatge, Mrs Meritxell Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.200.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Solsona, the Government, as you know and have demonstrated, is fully compromised that a family in a situation of social exclusion is deprived of basic sub-administrations and, therefore, for a situation of unemployment. And, therefore, in this area we will work and continue to do so. And also because the right to a decent habitat, so, it's a reality, and it's in this area where the government, I insist, is fully convinced. And therefore, I can assure you that the judgment, therefore, of the Constitutional Court on the decree mentioned, Decree Law 6/2013, will not produce any consequence, because we, therefore, will follow from the legal framework that we believe protects and works by giving answers to the thousands of families that require it because of their situation of vulnerability. The Constitutional Court stated that the powers of gas, water and light administration were a subject, therefore, in the field of electricity, and that it therefore belonged to the State. But, you see, this is a major disconnection. Here we are talking about a purely social issue, and, in fact, this is what was expressed in his particular vote, Judge Juan Antonio Xiol Ríos, in which he stated that this is a social issue and that Catalonia, therefore, has competence in this matter, and therefore we can legislate. Sadly, in this matter it is not the first suspension that the Constitutional Court, therefore, does, because... – driven, logically, for the Government of the State –, because it had previously done so with the Consumer Code that gave new information obligations to sub-ministrers, and therefore also the need to create a solid foundation of basic sub-ministrations. And, in this sense, it seems – and I say it clearly – that today we can have a good news on the table: we have just had an interview that would raise the suspense on the theme of the Solidary Care Fund. And so, I'm telling you, the announcement that we have rejected this interlocutory, but that we have to study with detention what real effects it has, and also take into account that it is not about the definitive feeling, but, therefore, what is the rise of this suspension; but, from the start, good news that we can have on the table. Therefore, we find ourselves in one gang: inaction on the part of the Spanish Government, despite the fact that there is a European directive of the year 2009 which obliges us to transpose this directive, therefore, into law, and therefore, to protect and guarantee the electricity sub-administration to vulnerable consumers, before the Spanish Government's inaction, I insist, we also find ourselves with an overrun by the Spanish Government which wants to stop protection on the part of the Catalan Government in the citizens and citizens who are in a situation of vulnerability, and that, therefore, for two times lead us to suspend two legislative measures. And now we have on the rope the third, as you said, the law that was driven by the citizenry: the Law 24/2015. So we find ourselves in a situation that logically worries us; but we also want to manifest one thing, don't we? And it's that people in Catalonia need to be reassured that the government has worked and will continue to do so to ensure these sub-administrations. Okay. So, what does that prove to us? For one band the inaction and, for another, the overcoming, is that in Catalonia we are being called to face the situations of injustice that the citizens of Catalonia suffer. Because if the State, therefore, has renounced to protect, to defend the most vulnerable citizens of this country, in no case will the Government of Catalonia do so. Therefore, this problem, we have come close to it as a joint objective of the different administrations of the country. You said it well. There has also been a lot of work here on the part of the assemblies, and, therefore, on the part of the basic social services. And, therefore, there were clear actions, with a clear will. To quote some of us, right? : the Table on energy poverty or the current current standard of 24/2015. You said, too, that we could, therefore, avoid 33,000 sizes of different basic sub-administrations. This is not a minor issue. And also, with the deployment of this law, there is a commitment to create administrative instruments and tools to effectively respond to situations of poor energy for one band, and, for another, to create a structure that allows basic consumption to be guaranteed to people and families who social services credit their poor energy. Therefore, a very clear priority: to avoid that any person or family in a situation of vulnerability is vegi, therefore, submissive to a stature of basic sub-administrations. That's what we've done, and we'll keep doing it. Second ambit: the habitation. This..., we have promoted, as you know, the Emergency Table of the Catalonia Habitat Agency, and here we have done a lot of work: for two years the number of requests resolved positively, therefore, are 1,808. For another band, we have 1,830 agreed habitats with the funded entities – and this is not a minor issue either. Or, for another band, therefore, we have also communicated to the financial entities and to the great tenors, the owners of empty habitats, in those municipalities with urgent needs, the suitability to surrender them, voluntarily, before having to activate the mechanisms of compulsory cessation that allows article 7 of the said law. Therefore, the law is in danger of being appealed to the Government of the State. And so, clearly here, this is not a conflict of competition, but it is, and we can say so, a premeditated attack on the families most affected by the crisis. Therefore, this would result in consequences for families in a situation of poor energy, and also for those in a situation of residential exclusion. So, before all this, what does the government do? So make a deal, huh? that we undertake to adopt the urgent legislative measures, therefore, which are necessary, which the State allows us and, therefore, to guarantee a legal framework necessary to fight against the energy poverty and, also, the housing emergency. For another band, it is called a find with the totality of political groups to explain, so, what is the job we are doing. And, therefore, in this sense, I believe that we can, therefore, work together in these subjects. For another band, too, gather the Table on poor energy and the Table on denunciations and value what is the situation in which we find ourselves, and, therefore, work in this area together. Also, to carry out a specific campaign on poor energy and residential exclusion to give knowledge, therefore, to people who can collate what measures they can use to not see 'excluded', therefore, neither running, nor water, nor light, nor a decent habitat. And, for another band, we will also bring to public information the decree to regulate – and this in an immediate way, already said this morning –, therefore, the out-of-court proceedings; but, as you said, this is not the substantive issue of the law and we are working in all other matters. We have also given to the subcontractors and the agents involved how the mandatory communication applies, the social services of the situations of the next sizes. We have seen that there are some situations that can be improved and, therefore, here we will work. Or agree with the local authorities to implement the support lines of the llars and the families, to study the social pricing model existing in other countries, and, therefore, to see if we can import it to Catalonia, and to create a solid care mechanism of basic sub-administration from the contributions, therefore, of the public administrations and the sub-ministring companies. There will be a new call, a helpline call and here this morning already announced that the resources that were not used the previous year, therefore, could be used this year. And, for another band, also give guarantees of support to all individuals, entities or other organisations that initiate the proceedings to denounce the Government of the Spanish State before the Court of Justice of the European Union, for the defence of vulnerable consumers before the poor energy and for the lack of transposition of European directives and, therefore, leaves them in a situation of defence. Therefore, finally, listen to me, send a message of tranquillity to all those families who know, therefore, that this is in danger, to say in a way, before the actions of the Spanish Government, because there is no possibility of losing these aids. The Government of Catalonia is committed to finding the right and legal ways to give it support and, therefore, to prevent these sizes, therefore, of the basic sub-administrations. And, for another, therefore, in a very clear way: for many resources of unconstitutionality which are present and for many laws which are suspended, the Government of Catalonia will not fail to make efforts to do so which correspond to it, which is, therefore, to give support to the people who require it and, therefore, to be in the canto of the families and vulnerable people that the law, logically, as the European Union says, must protect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.201.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. There's the word... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] All right, then. [[Question to the Government on the financial situation of the Generality and the prospects for the future]] [[300-00037/11]] The new item on the agenda is the question to the Government on the financial situation of the Generality and the prospects for the future, presented by the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes. To expose her, has the word Lord Oriol Amat.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.202.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, MPs, MPs... the Spanish Minister of Hysenda, a few days ago, communicated by letter that the Spanish Autonomous Communities had to retail, and a lot. In the concrete case of Catalonia, the quantification that is done is that it has to make some details that suppose 3,400_million euros. At the same time, during these days, and in previous periods, the autonomous communities have been criminalized in relation to their deficiency, malaise, etc. Well, then, the question we make from Juntas per el Gouvernement to the Gouvernement has to do with the Catalan Government's understanding of the financial situation and the prospects for the future. Well, about this point, in this intervention what I'm going to do is five considerations that we make from Juntes for the Yes and some conclusions. The considerations refer in the first place to the deficit, the deficit we have. Why do we have a problem? In the third place, I will talk about the infra-financing that Catalonia has. Fourthly, the consequences of this underfunding for the welfare state, for competitiveness; that is, for people, for businesses. And finally, the fifth consideration is about the rating, the impact the deficit has on the rating. When I have made these considerations, I will make some conclusions. Therefore, first consideration: the deficit. The deficit is about €4,000_million, and it is the difference between expenses and admissions. What the minister tells us is that we spend too much on the tickets we have. Well, we think we spend a little. What's going on is that where we actually have the problem is in the tickets, that we're getting in too little. So it's not a expense problem – sooner, if we have a problem it's a little bit of a problem, then I'll talk about it – but the problem actually has it for a few tickets. According to point: the Catalan economy, an economy that generates, as I said a while ago, in theory, to public accounts, 4,000 million euros of deficit. Catalonia is one of the most competitive regions in Europe. If we speak at the Spanish level, we generate 19 percent of GDP. The president, Mr Rajoy, said: "The Catalans do things. Yes, we make 19 percent of GDP. We are 16 percent of the population, but we make 19 percent of GDP. We're taxing 19 percent of the taxes. Of all the taxes the Spanish State collects, Catalans contribute 19 percent. What's up? So of all the expense that the Spanish State makes, we get 10 percent. Or, we pay, we contribute to taxes, at 19 percent and we get 10 percent of the expense. Third point: this imbalance between what we contribute and expenditure generates underfunding. As in other issues in Catalonia, there is not so much unanimity among economists, if you take, of every hundred studies made by economists, of all trends, about the Catalan fiscal deficit..., if you take all, see that 90 percent of the Catalan economists we have studied on the subject of the fiscal deficit agree that there is an excessive fiscal deficit, that we quantify, according to the years, between 15,000 and 16,000_million euros a year. Is that too much or too little? Well, then, if we have a tax deficit of 16,000_million and the Generality has an annual deficit that wants to reduce us by 4,000, that means that with the fiscal deficit that we have..., we can't just get rid of the deficit that they have the Generality accounts; we can reverse the detail, we can do a lot of things that we can't do. Then, these €16,000_million a year are per capita €2,000_. Per person. Is two thousand euros per person too little? Well, it turns out that the generality, the money it has for all policies is 1,900_euros/year per capita. The Generalitat has, to allocate to sanitation, teaching, to everything, 1,900_euros per capita. And it turns out that the tax deficit we have, per capita, is 2,000 euros. There are other regions in Spain that in place of rem 1,900 euros per capita rem 4,000 euros per capita. Four thousand. It's about the equality of Spaniards, and it's hard for me to find a state in the world that's more asymmetric than it is right now. Well, the fourth point is the consequences of this underfunding. This underfunding affects people. Menys are the welfare. Agafin the indicator they want: health expenditure per person, education expenditure per person, expenditure..., the one they want. Finally, you can grab one here in the chamber... I've seen that there is a special preference for the subject of external action. From the outside, I didn't think there was such a thing as a predilection. I see there are three or four themes that are recurrent. It's an outside action. So, well, take over external action and see that, in absolute terms, the absolute euros that Catalonia spends on external action are smaller than in various regions, many with fewer inhabitants than we do. So we don't just spend a lot less than the others per capita, including in external action, but it's not just per capita, it's in absolute values. I remember years ago that this situation, when we started studying it in the Catalan Economic Commission of the College of Economists..., we said that Catalonia had a problem that it had... A few years ago there was a president of the government who liked bonsais. Actually, I've always thought that Spanish governments always like bonsai, and they have a bonsai that is the favorite bonsai, that is Catalonia. Catalonia is like a bonsai who cut off her whites and prevents her from growing up. This underfunding..., there have been studies – if anyone has any interest in it I can pass – that show that simply the lack of infrastructure harms the growth of GDP in a 1,3_per_cent annual. Simply the infrastructure deficit. If infrastructures instead of spending a 10_percent of the state budget, it was 16, or it was the 20, the 19-20, which is equivalent to GDP, then we would grow by more than a 1.3_percent of GDP. Well, the fifth consideration is about the rating. In the last weeks I have noticed, in fi, in many people, especially in mediums, certain Spanish mediums, certain political ones, a great joy for the downgrading of the Catalan rating. Well, what's important is to know what you're up to, this downgrading of the rating: simply to the fact that Catalonia can't dispose of the resources it generates. I recommend a study by two economists, Elias and Mateu, who show that if Catalonia does not have the fiscal deficit it has in place of being a good rubble, as it is today, it would have the A+ rating, two points above what Euskadi and Navarre have. Well, I'll get to the conclusions. The conclusions are four. The first: we contribute 19_per_cent to taxes and receive 10_per_cent of expenditure, 10_per_cent of infrastructure. The issue of infrastructure is especially difficult. If they read girl statements in the past, later months, by multinational leaders, they say that what makes them – especially chemistry, for example, or automotive – is not the subject of the process. What makes them, more than energy costs, is the lack of infrastructure, connections with ports, the theme of the Mediterranean railway corridor... Well, according to the conclusion: Catalans deserve more public spending and infrastructure. In short, more benefit and more competitiveness. Third conclusion: the generality's deficit in the accounts is an external deficit. It's not generation to Catalonia. In Catalonia we generate more tickets than we spend. The problem is the money that goes in and doesn't come back. If anyone stretches the arm more than the handcuff, it's not the Catalan government. Fourth concludes, and I'm done: let's not detail. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.203.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Oriol Junqueras, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.204.0	Do you have any ice, Mr. Coscubala? Do you have any ice? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah! [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] A little calm – a little calm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.205.0	Please, go. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.206.0	A little calm – a little calm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.207.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.208.0	Let me begin my intervention with a question that has nothing to do with misunderstanding: can it be that in an inquiry into the general budget situation and the presuppositions in this chamber there is no Member of one of the parliamentary groups? Can it be? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. This question – which obviously has no bad intentions, was only to assure me or to ascertain the fact – some reflections of generic character around the question being raised. According to data from the General Intervention of the State, not from the General Intervention of the Government of Catalonia, data from the General Intervention of the State, the only public administration of the Spanish State that has increased its expenditure respect to the year 2010_has followed the Central Administration of the State, the only one, which has increased it in a middle of 4,2_per_cent. The group of autonomous communities have lowered their expenditure by 13,5_per_cent compared to 2010. This percentage is higher in the case of the Government of Catalonia. The administrations that have lowered their spending more than 2010 are the municipalities and the parliaments, which have lowered it to 21_per_cent. Therefore, I repeat: according to data from the General Intervention of the State, the only administration that has increased its expenditure compared to 2010_has been the General Administration of the State, in a 4.2; the conjunction of the autonomous communities have lowered it in a 13.5. Therefore, first conclusion around the accumulated deficit for public administrations in the Spanish State: it is clear that this deficit is primarily responsible for the only administration that has increased its expenditure compared to 2010. It is impossible for those responsible to follow those who have lowered their expenditure by 13,5_per_cent. First conclusion, which seems to be obvious. In addition, the State, and I myself in this Parliament and in other areas, he says, the Spanish Government states, the Minister of Hisenda states, and I have sometimes explained it, that there is part of the increase in the expenditure of the General Administration of the State that responds to the resulting increases..., or as a consequence of the increase in the expenditure of social security, which includes pensions and subsidies for the future. That's right, there's a part of that expense that I'm responsible for these games. In concrete terms, in the last six years, social security parties have increased by 3.3 per cent. The rest of the expenditure of the General Administration of the State, that is, that which has nothing to see – that which has nothing to see – neither with pensions nor with the subsidy of theatur, has increased a 5,4_per_cent, lock-in there, for example, some submarines that can only navigate on the surface, because if they perform their function they would not return to the surface. And that has very hard consequences. Not for public administrations in their joint, but for the joint of citizens who are administered by these public administrations. Because, if it is true that the State assumes the corresponding parties to social security and touring benefits – which, I insist, have advanced a 3,3_per_cent, while the whole of the State's expenditure has advanced a 4,2_per_cent, so much above, in the rhythm, that of social security – it is also undoubtedly certain – it is also undoubtedly certain – that it is the sub-state-character administrations that assume responsibility for social welfare expenses as important as, for example, health, education, social welfare, etc. The combination of the capacity loss of these sub-state administrations – we remember that it is at 13,5_per_cent of average between 2010 and 2016 – is what explains that, despite the fact that we allocate the highest percentage of our history in our assumptions to these social parties, despite the fact that we allocate the highest percentage to them, more than 70_per_cent of the Generality's assumption of Catalonia was destined to these direct social parties, and despite the fact that the fiscal effort that makes the vast majority of the citizens is very significant – despite this, the per capita expenditure, as the deputy asked for, clearly is much higher than the average of the state. And the only possible explanation of the fact that a company that makes a fiscal effort over the middle, which allocates a higher percentage of the middle to social policies, has a per capita clearly lower than the middle in these social policies is that there is some element that distorts the available entries of this public administration, in this case of the Government of Catalonia, and of the conjunction of our public administrations: assemblies, parliaments, etc. For a long time, when we have explained this kind of question, despite the evidence of the figures and it seems to me that the clarity that we are trying to put there at least for a long time, we have been very alone, we have been very alone in this room, or, in other words, the majority of this room has been very alone in the combination of the explanations given to us in the public administrations or in the communication media of the State. Now it looks like he's changed. Now the General Intervention of the State is the one that gives us the data that I have just explained. And now it turns out that the Airef, the independent responsible authority, prosecutor, not only gives us the reason, but that it carries the Ministry of Hisenda, which is the ministry that created the Independent Authority of Fiscal Responsibility, before the courts, because it denies him the information necessary to do his job. That is to say, the Independent Authority of Fiscal Responsibility, created for the Ministry of Hisenda, brings the Ministry of Hisenda to the courts because it does not let him do his job. And this very week the Airf gave the ministry exactly the same as we gave it from years ago, months, weeks, days and hours; for example, it respects the manifest impossibility of calculating which is the detail that the ministry asks of us, if the ministry does not fix the quantity to retail, nor sets the percentages, nor sets the criteria with which to calculate and, moreover, sets as pure estimates entries. Who is able to do the exercise of calculating what is not said either with absolute values, or with relative values, or with criteria to calculate it, and which, moreover, considers that the reversal forecasts are pure estimates and, therefore, you yourself? Certainly, and if you don't have enough flaps, or no flaps to your liking, you'll get involved. He said: "Fortunately, we are not suns. In fact, there is now a great deal, many autonomous communities of the Spanish State that say the same thing as we do and that, in this sense, coincide with the General Intervention of the State, that coincide with the Authority of Fiscal Responsibility, or that say the commissioners of the Commission, Moscow and Dombrovskis, at the end, the one they are saying, the one they are giving these days, and that's what the Minister of Economy, De Guindos, interprets, is that what we have strongly defended in this room and out of this room is the same..., some time someone else is helping us, which we value very much and have great esteem, and not in plans people – people, people– stand out in many places, and so on. So if so many people give us the reason, maybe – accept me the ‘maybe', maybe it will be because we have it – if so many people give us the reason, maybe it will be because we have it. Certainly, despite the efforts to convince some Members, some of whom remain absent in their totality, let's say, from their group in this chamber, it turns out that some president of some autonomous community of this same political group says exactly the same as we have said in this respect. Therefore, it seems to me that the reason that he is assisting us is a lot and therefore we would act in the line that we have also been explaining insistently for so long. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.209.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. The word has the deputy Oriol Amat.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.210.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, while we were doing the interrogation, it seems that the Spanish government has increased the groundwork for the prosecution from 0,3 to 0,7; well, then, maybe it's a question for us to continue the inquiry, huh? [[Rialles. Widow's remorse. Greetings.]] Well... what's going on is that a 0.7 is insufficient, huh? Well, we say we don't want to cut any more. The Vice-President has introduced some interesting data: the Airef, which is nominated for the Spanish Government, has been mentioned by other autonomous communities of different political colors, has also been mentioned by the Commissioner Moscovici, of Economy, of the European Union... Well, then, if we think that we should not detail more..., moreover, there are two additional reasons, that one is very related to what the Vice-President has explained to us. He wanted to talk to them about two additional reasons: one is the issue of incompliments and the other, the issue of disloyalties. In the previous intervention I tried to argue from the point of view that Catalonia generates sufficient resources, that we spend little, that we deserve more welfare, we deserve more competitiveness, more infrastructure..., but now I would like to refer to these two points: the incompliments and the delliality. On the incompliments, well, here, in the few months that I am a Member of Parliament, so I could see that it is spoken many times of the third additional provision; and what do you mean, this third additional provision? So, that there's a pending debt, related to a set deal, a pending debt of 4,000_million euros. He's doing the calculus at the bottom of the beasts... this subject of the beasts, the interesting finding. A few years ago someone was talking about "deferred compensation," and now, on the subject of beasts, some beasts that are calculated downwards in 2014, which seems to be liquidated in 2016, it is said that they do not want to anticipate, that they do not want to anticipate one thing, very important money that comes from 2014. There are delays in the liquidations, there are no executions of investments... Before I spoke to them that the investment is very low, it is a 10_per_cent, the investment that the State makes in Catalonia is a 10_per_cent, of the total of the investment that it makes. Well, that's what puts in the assumption, a 10_per_cent; what's interesting is to look after what happens. There have been very interesting studies, among them Joan Ridao's, who calculates, in a very long period of years, that the execution of this 10_per_cent, which is so low, of the assumption that it is for infrastructure for Catalonia, that it is a 10_per_cent and it is very low, then it turns out that Catalonia, by chance, is of the communities where the execution is lower: the middle of a long period of years is a 79_per_cent of execution, much below the middle. And it turns out that there are some autonomous communities that perform more than 100 percent of the assumption, and this pattern has always been repeated. Well, I could go on with a lot more incompliments, but I wanted to move on to the second point: gimmicks. The vice-president spoke to us about the issue of deficit targets, and reminded us of a very important fact that came out these days at the press: the state is spending more at these times, in relation to 2010, is spending 4_per_cent more; the autonomous communities, which in theory are the waste pickers, the ones who do not do the dues..., the autonomous communities have reported, in mid-January, a 13_per_cent. The impact of reducing funding for Catalonia is much more than a 13_per_cent, huh? Therefore, this 0.7 to what seems to have passed, by the decision made, from the floor of the deficit, from 0.3 to 0.7, we believe that it is insufficient. I don't want to tire them out. On the subject of incompletion and delleialities, there is a very complete report that the Catalan Government made last year, which quantifies the delleialities in €9,000_million. I turn to the conclusions. The State, as I said, asked us to detail, and already announced them before we would not do it, but we asked the Government of the Generality to urge the Government of the State, first, to fulfill its commitments; second, to preach with example; third, that I did not challenge us any more. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.211.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next is the Deputy President of the Government, Mr. Oriol Junqueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.212.0	If all Members have the efficiency of the Oriol Loved at the time of obtaining increases in the deficit relief, the problems will soon be over. [[relays]] of the public administrations of the Spanish State. I will give you some data that seems to help frame the situation. The Generalitat de Catalunya entries, in per capita terms, 2015 and 2016 have been located and will be placed, in per capita terms, at the same level as 2005 and, after counting the effect of inflation, in per capita terms, at the same level as 2003. Therefore, it is clear that the situation of the entries of this public administration is absolutely burdened to face the many responsibilities that we have and that we want to assume. There are some especially obvious causes; I will also bring some data. For example, compared to 2006, the combination of the receipts derived from the tax on capital transfers and documented legal acts, such as the consequence, first, of the cylinder and, then, from the escalate of the financial and real estate cylinder, has been reduced by more than 2,400_million. But the most significant part of this lack of per capita income at the 2005 levels and, when inflation is down, at the 2003 levels is, in fact, as Mr Oriol Amat pointed out, for example, in the calculation, systematically at a low level, of the forecasts of economic growth, of fiscal recovery; therefore, in the beasts of public administrations, etc. In the end, when the Spanish governments of one and the other color act in this way, they also harm their interests and harm the interests of the joint administration and its administrations. Because one of the responsibilities of any public administration should be to ensure the growth of the economy and, therefore, the growth of the possibilities for recovery, because in the background this is what we have at the service of our basic social services. And it's obvious that systemically, scanning this growth capacity, scanning this development capacity, is damaging the combination of your tax receipts. It is also, as we have explained on many occasions, the debt capacity of the joint venture of the economy of the Kingdom of Spain, the debt capacity of the joint venture of the Kingdom of Spain – the debt is named with this name, « the Kingdom of Spain – at the time when it is already over 100_percent of its GDP, depending on the growth of its GDP, because, somehow or otherwise, it has to swallow this debt later. And growth is produced, despite all the malgrateful, to a large extent, in our economy. And, therefore, scanning and strangling this economy ends up having consequences on the debt capacity of the joint government of the Spanish State. And, therefore, the Spanish State, in this sense, the Spanish governments should act more rationally. How this rationality has not been demonstrated, and how systematically what they have shown to be manifest in any type of fiscal agreement that has existed, it is clear that our society has all the right to decide – even if it was not so, it would also be clear – it has all the right to decide its future, to decide its policies and to take all the decisions that guarantee and make possible the sustainability of these social and economic policies that I seem to be convinced that we deserve and that our fellow citizens need. And that's what we're going to do, what we're going to try to do with the presuppositional proposals that in the next few weeks, in the next month or so, at the end of May, will approve the government and that this Parliament will have occasion, if you think it appropriate, to approve it in July. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.213.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Question to the Government on refugees]] [[300-00039/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on refugees presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for the Yes. The presentation is made by Mrs. Adriana Delgado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.214.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. Well, only a few days ago, I remembered in this Parliament that the enormous conflicts that lie in the world have caused history and still cause people to flee to seek international protection, security and new opportunities, and in this run, in the worst of cases, they find death. This same week – and we have made a minute of silence in his record this morning – a new shipwreck had black Mediterranean, this sea of ours that has become a dead sea. There are no exact figures, and there was still a search, if there is no novelty, but according to a group of survivors there could have been more than four hundred deaths. And it just happened a year after the death of eight hundred more people in another shipwreck at the cost of Libya, which was considered the greatest tragedy of this type in the last twenty years. And another date, from Save the Children: from '11 to 13 April– only from '11 to 13 April– more than five thousand people have arrived in Lampedusa, Sicily, Calabria and Pulla in vaixells. And that's how the days went by, and we're talking about tragedies. We are talking coldly about figures, numbers, but we are talking about people, men, women and children fleeing violence and misery to end up in this communal pit where the Mediterranean has become. Hundreds of thousands of people leave their homelands to seek security, freedom, respect for human rights. But what do you find on this runaway? So, barriers rise – literally – refugee camps under very poor conditions, mass deportations or, as we regretted a while ago, death. In the face of this humanitarian catastrophe, this "crisis of the refugees we call since the August of the past year" is the worst after the Second World War – we have to work both from public institutions, as from entities, as from civil society, in order to attend, rescue and embrace refugees, respecting the fundamental rights of asylum and international protection, gathered in international conventions. We have the ethical, moral and legal obligation to do so, and so explain the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in its Article 14, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the Geneva Convention, among others. What we need to make clear is that we are not talking about a situation of punctual emergence, but rather that we are ahead of a global challenge. Let's talk about people fleeing the war, who need protection, because their lives are in danger. No one has chosen to become a refugee, and everyone can be a refugee someday. But let us not go further, on the contrary: the response of the member countries of the European Union, among them the Spanish State, has, for example, been a shameful agreement with Turkey, an agreement that casts doubt on the same right to asylum and breaches of international and European standards in favour of human rights and on the international protection of persons persecuted or victims of war – we did not quote a few moments ago. The Spanish State has been one of the signatories of the agreement and has demonstrated its inoperability, rigidity and lack of compromise, has not been able to complement the names of refugees that it had to gather and, moreover, has ignored, has diminished the Generality, which has shown from the first moment its willingness to participate in the action of European governments contributing to the resettlement, to the relocation in the territory of refugees, based on their commitments in defense of the peace and respect for human rights. While the Spanish State has exclusive foreign and asylum rights competences in accordance with the European Constitution, the Generality, in agreement with the State, has exclusive competence in immigration matters for the first time, the establishment and regulation of the measures necessary for its social and economic integration and for its social participation. They are all competitions that have developed progressively and made it possible to gather and integrate thousands of immigrants to Catalonia over the past few years. We don't think this state-run refugee integration and settlement program looks good to us. Doesn't sound good to us, why? So, because he's missing, because he's rigid and bureaucratic, because he's centralized and he's letting people down. And, even if the managing entities of the program do a good job – and from here we take advantage of it to make a recognition, to Red Cree, to the Catalan Committee of Aid for Refugees and ACCEM – we want to expand it; to expand it and complement it, because our commitment is to host refugees and we want to do it more and we want to do it better, in a coordinated way with the Government, the joint ventures and the entities. Some flaws in the state program, as I said. It leaves many unsavory people during the period between entry into the country and acceptance of the asylum application, a period that can last between one and three months. It is a rigid program, because it does not take into account the refugee's migration project and obliges to go to certain destinations different from the places where the person requesting asylum believes, for which it is, therefore, that it can run better. The program has a duration that is sufficient for some people, but it does not end when personal autonomy is relaxed, but it has a fixed duration, and for many people this end of the program is social exclusion. And lastly, we repeat, management is overly bureaucratic and rigid. What else? Not only has the Generalitat shown its willingness to manage the gathering and integration of refugees; also the assemblies, the entities, the civil society, are working and demanding a major management in the gathering and integration of these people, and they have asked for it publicly and on different occasions. And, beyond this state plan that we have criticized, also from other cross-cutting and coordination, as for example, since September 2015, the Committee for the Reception of Refugees; and I quote only this for its representativeness, but there are many other initiatives. And what do we have to do? So, we need to take advantage of the services of all of them as facilitators of the gathering and integration of these strange people; they have a lot of experience and they could help us a lot. As the Committee of the Regions of the European Union has gathered, local authorities must actively participate in the system of distribution and relocation of applicants and beneficiaries of international protection, as well as in the collide mechanisms and in European financing. And lastly, we have memory. We cannot fail to say that we have been refugees, that we remember when our country was saved in good part by the republics of Venice, Mexico or Xile and by the people of France. And this land has always been solid and cozy, and built for all and every one of its citizens, which was its origin. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.215.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply to the Counsellor of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Raül Romeva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.216.0	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Indeed, this is a matter that we will never talk about enough, we will never devote enough and the minutes of silence that we will have to devote to it will always be too much, because it is actually one of the dramas that claim concrete answers, claim will, claim solutions, and, I repeat, for so much that the words never remain sufficient, from the point of view of the needs must be complemented by many other things that are today, unfortunately, not everyone does nor everyone lets do. It is therefore absolutely relevant the reflection made by the Member and which, moreover, allows us in this Chamber to reiterate once more the compromise we have as Members and Members, as Elected Representatives, as Public Servants, before a fact that is actually a duere; a democratic right and, above all, a humane right. That is why, from the point of view of what can be done with the government, I would like to mention the words that Mrs Bassa has already made in her time – which today is in Madrid to deal with this issue – and which are in keeping with the will, the obligation to complete and to complete the existing international law; that is to say the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and, of course, the Geneva Convention. And this means that those refugees, as has been well pointed out, flee, obviously, because they fear for their lives, for many different reasons, but obviously not by taste and still less by desire, and above all, also, address the causes that have caused this flight. And that's what we do, yes, we said it, out of democracy and responsibility, but above all, also, because we have memory. And it's absolutely relevant to remember, because there are people who forget me, there are people who forget that also, at certain times in history, this help that today asked us was the people of Catalonia, in different formats, in different times and in different times, that asked for it; and he got it – and he got it. We have repeated it to the point of satiety, the Lower Councillor has said it to the point of satiety, the Secretary of Immigration has said it to the point of satiety, we say it here once more: the Government of Catalonia, its municipalities, society is in absolute readiness, prepared and, moreover, willing to respond to this human drama. Both the President of the Generality and the letter which he addressed to the European Commissioner for Immigration a few days ago, Mr Dimitris Avramópulos, as I myself did with a letter in absolutely identical terms addressed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Spanish State, we put it in knowledge, both in the framework of the European Commission and in the framework of the Spanish State, the availability, I repeat, of Catalonia, of the Government, of the administrations, of the municipalities, of the organised civil society, to bring together up to 4,500 refugees and refugees and, practically immediately, about 1,800. With this initiative we wanted to manifest the compromise but above all the obligation that, I repeat, we have as a joint, as a company, as a management. And we would, of course, welcome the fact that the Government of the State faces the challenge, the responsibility, the obligation to gather these 17,000 refugees and refugees to whom it has committed to sign the agreement in the European Union mark, of which 467 had to have arrived at the end of March, or before the end of March. Let us remember that this is an agreement, an agreement between the States of the European Union, and that, in short, on 27 September, when this agreement was drawn up, it was about the need to relocate up to 160,000 asylum seekers to the European territory, the territories of the European Union. Just today, in the framework of this agreement, there are 18 that the Spanish State has joined – and in many others that are part of other lives, but in the framework of this agreement only 18 – and this has created a great disappointment both in the European Union and in UNHCR. Just last week I was in Italy and I was able to speak with different political leaders, who expressed to me their concern, obviously, for this leave of office of the Spanish State, and they also appreciated the fact that from Catalonia we expressed our willingness to be able to respond to this situation in the way, also, to help those countries, as it has been said – in the case of Italy, in the case of Greece – that they are colliding in the first person of these people. But apart from this failure of the European Union, or with the European Union, to put it this way, on behalf of the Spanish State, it has also remembered – and that is precisely what today is denouncing the Lower Council, together with representatives of other communities that have sent the same message to the Government of the State –..., what has also been a glaring disloyalty on the part of the Spanish State and, above all, a willingness to prevent those who can and want to respond to this drama from doing so. But it's that, in addition, they're not fulfilling the legal framework, because Catalonia's very Statute of Autonomy holds full powers to deal with issues such as colliding and integration. And that is what, I repeat, from the point of view of the current legal framework, is preventing the Spanish State from doing so. A programme has been set up with many shortcomings, strongly centralized, very bureaucratic, which makes it very difficult to manage this issue. And from this point of view I think it's relevant to remember one more time – and I think it'll never be enough to do it – the paper that is making the entities that are being joined and that are working on this line: Red Cree, Catalan Refugee Assistance Committee and, obviously, also ACCEPT. But there is also a lack of local administrations, the assemblies, which are, in short, those who, from their point of view, obviously immediately with the arrival of many of these people, find themselves with this issue at the front line and can, they want, and more so they do very well, give it an answer, despite the difficulties that come, I repeat, from the State. Clearly, if we had the tools that we don't have today and that have the states, we could manage much better and much faster and much faster. And we'll never get tired of repeating it, we could do many more things with the tools we don't have. But that's not an excuse, either, so we don't do everything we can do and what we're doing. And, therefore, from this point of view, I simply want to pose three questions. The first is to ensure maximum coordination between the different entities, institutions, administrations, the Government, the local administration, the social entities concerned, through the Committee for the Reception of Refugee Persons, which is encapsulated, also, as we have seen, for the Lower Council, which must allow us to precisely meet these personal needs, these vital paths, these vital projects, which go much further than giving a timely reception; they want to give us an opportunity to guarantee the autonomy of the projects of these people, and this is what has been done. That's why it's also so important that the gatherings..., and in this case, especially the role that the Barcelona Assembly is playing, with its mayor in front, because they play the role that they are making and, therefore, also, because they can find their proposals recognized. Secondly, and this is a particularly important aspect also, acting in origin, acting on the causes; not only ask yourself why, but attack the why, from the point of view of assuming, I repeat, there are reasons behind the flight of these people. For this reason, in our development cooperation policies we have put an emphasis, we have put an emphasis, especially significant. In fact, the same Law 26/2001, on cooperation in development, already establishes who the ends are, and therefore also the action of government, for which it makes the recognition and protection of human rights, the promotion of pau, individual and collective fundamental freedoms, obviously recognized at international level. And here is where I want to make manifest in a special way the work that many entities – some have remembered – are doing on the ground; entities like Save the Children, Proactive Open Arms, Sense Frontiers Metges, the Catalan Refugee Committee, Creu Roja Catalunya, Sense Frontiers Pallassos, never recognized, never valued. And finally, the end of the mechanisms that we have to put forward and that we can face with all firmness: to ask, to insist on our European interlocutors, before the need of all political initiative, whether or not European, that we do not ensure respect for human rights and so as to guarantee the founding values of the European Union, and that we must do so with all those who are laying down barriers, who are going through, who are having difficulty in being able to respond as this human crisis is worth, and who, I repeat, unfortunately are going late. In short, we are proactive, and when we say we are not referring to the Government, in relation to society, in relation to the country, in relation to the assembly of the Catalan society, at the time of offering proposals to help. And, therefore, also, what we want as a government is to provide the best of the mechanisms, the most effective, the most efficient and the fastest of the mechanisms to ensure that the collide works and also to ensure that the causes that cause this escape continue to be eradicated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.217.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Next, has the word Ms. Adriana Delgado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.218.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, well, you have made reference, between the different actions carried out for the Generality, to these international interlocutors; for example, the letter of President Puigdemont to the European Commissioner of Immigration, Interior and Citizenship, Dimitris Avramopoulos, who manifested the willingness of Catalonia to gather up to 4,500 refugees in Catalonia in a couple of years. Avramopoulos has already returned this letter, and he says that he sees the Catalan offer to gather them and, moreover, demands that the Spanish Government give it support, and we hope that he will pay attention. While, however, and as you were commenting, we cannot stand by our arms, and Catalonia, while there is no independent state that can send planes to collect refugees, as other independent states have done, must also continue to work to accommodate them, for their employment, social and personal insertion in a coordinated and organized way, as we are commenting; working, in a band, in the countries of origin. As we said before, forced population movements must be understood as a permanent phenomenon, and it is not a punctual emergence. And the best way to eradicate forced displacement, precisely, is to fight the causes that cause them, for example, with the actions carried out by the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation to Mediterranean countries, as we said: Syria, Jordan, Iraq, Lebanon and Greece, for example. Working, also, from another side, in transit countries, supporting refugees, opening up safe legal lives to guarantee access to the right to asylum, or working also because the embassies and consulates of these countries offer the possibility to manage asylum applications, preventing refugees from putting their lives in danger or resorting to the mists involved in the human trafficking taking advantage of these situations. The Government of Catalonia cannot support recent migration policies, states that impose their demands on a European policy that should maximize respect for human rights and their founding values, and that need governments, assemblies and social entities that, as we have said, have offered to help in this welcome and integration of refugees. It is urgent that the European Union is repositioning the management of the refugee crisis and is firmly committed to the assistance both financed and humanitarian of the thousands of people fleeing every day from war and terror in their respective countries. We must demand solidarity with the state of the European Union in order to relocate as many refugees as possible, and we must do this without obsessing over the ciphers. In Europe there are 500_million citizens: 1_million refugees means a population increase of 0.2_per_cent. It is possible to find a solution to the crisis, but in the end, what is compromised, generosity and joint work by everyone, but also, and above all, as he commented, counselor, go to the scene of the problem to effectively deal with it, prioritizing the promotion of pau and the resolution of conflicts. And in Catalonia, public institutions, entities, civil society have – they have – the capacity and tools – and they put them at our disposal – to face this challenge proactively; a challenge that is global and multidisciplinary and to which we have to respond for all these reasons that we have commented – legal, ethical, moral – but also, and above all, because we can and why we want to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.219.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then there's the word Mr. Raül Romeva's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.220.0	Thank you very much. Obviously, we share, of course, the concern, but allow'much that I have in two questions that seem relevant to me. The first one. You have insisted on a subject and it seems to me that it is opportune. There have been deficiencies in communication between the Spanish State and the..., in any case, the administrations at the level of Catalonia and the different actors that at the level of Catalonia, not only the Government, but also others..., which have provoked, at the time, that we are personally addressing the European Commission in order to be able to respond to this humanitarian crisis. And, therefore, from the first point of view, it seems to me that it is opportune to remember and value and value the satisfaction for which at these times there is a direct dialogue, an absolutely direct dialogue between the European Commission, Mr Avramopoulos, and the President of the Generality, because it means that there is an explicit recognition that here there are potentialities, abilities, willies that, unfortunately, we have not found in the state itself. And this seems to me to be a fundamental aspect that we do not only need to put into value, but that, in addition, we need to see it as an evidence that, in the end, the will is to give an answer. And, in this sense, there is one aspect that seems to me important: the European Commission, with this answer, highlights the lack of response on the part of the Government of the Spanish State in relation to the commitments it has made to the European Union, and, in change, explicitly, clearly appreciates the offer it makes, the proposal made by Catalonia, in its conjunction, through its administrations, to give adequate assistance to asylum seekers, and, obviously, also to lay down the process of integration. But, moreover, Mr Avramopoulos also insists directly; he directly urges Minister Fernández Díaz, responsible for the implementation of decisions taken at the level of the European Union, to take the necessary steps to – and this seems to me significant – make as quickly as possible the integration of these people. The phrase, especially striking, i, crec, very illustrative of what the letter of Lord Avramopoulos means, is: « The sounder your offer becomes reality, the better for the refuges. And it seems to me that this message, it's not just important, it's not just clear, it's not just direct, but it's what we've been asking for a long time now that the Spanish Interior Government. There's a hurry, there's an emergency, but there's also proposals, he's trained, he's volunteered. And that's a global issue, that's a universal issue, that's a topic that's been asking us for a long time in the European Union. It's been a long time since what's going on is that European citizens look at each other and we don't like each other, we don't like this Europe; Europe doesn't like each other, when they look at each other before they look at each other. That is why asylum policy has been calling for a review for so long; that is why it is not possible to envisage, as it is today, in the European framework, the management of asylum policy as a temporary issue; that is why it can be understood that here what is to integrate this whole issue into the framework of the full debate on the development agenda; that is why it is so necessary to make a global rethink of everything that the refugee crisis means. And, therefore, I finish..., recalling, moreover, a Nobel prize, Malala Yousafzai: "The world cannot afford to lose this generation. And I believe that, in this sense, I have said it and I reaffirm myself, from Catalonia we are prepared and prepared to act, and, I repeat, it will never be enough, it will never be enough, and, always, all the minutes of silence that we will be doing mass, so that we should avoid it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-20-1401.221.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. They suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine.
