ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.1.0	The session begins. [[Greetings to a new Member]] Very good morning to everyone. I am pleased to greet the new Member who joined today, Mr Carles Riera, of the Parliamentary Group Candidate for Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. The list of questions to answer is in the Ple folder; according to Article 161 of the Rules, they will be substantiated this morning as the first point of the order of the day. Thus, I am sure that, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Esther Niubó of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has delegated her vote to the spokesman of her group, Mrs Eva Granados, and that she has also delegated her vote to Mrs Assumption Laïlla of the Parliamentary Group Joint for the Yes, to the chairman of her group, Mr Jordi Turull. I am also calling for an alteration of the order of the day: as a result of a request to the Board of State Guarantees on the Law Project of the Catalan Statistical Platform 2017-2020, this point has fallen from the order of the day, and this morning we will substantiate, after the control session, the Law Project of the Catalan External Community and the Decree of 5/2016. If there is no objection, this late we will first substantiate point 12, which is the question to the Government about the transparency of the Government of the Generality, and we will continue with the fifth point of the order of the day. Can this change in the order of the day be approved by consent? [[Pause.]] Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization]] [[310-00136/11]] Let's start, then, with the first point of the order of the day, which are asked to the government. The first question is about the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization. The question is posed by Ms. María José García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.2.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor Vila, on 27 April, six and a half months ago, we adopted Resolution 118/XI in the Committee on Culture to solve the chronic labour, economic and institutional precariousness of the Consorci per a la Normalizació Linguística, a resolution more than many of which we have adopted these years. We now have the documents for monitoring your compliance signed by you, incomplete and insufficient documents, which makes us think that the consortium is not a priority for the Government. We would now like you to respond to what this document does not say: Counsellor, will the future budgets of the Generalitat explicitly assume Chapter I of the consortium, the 25_million staff costs? Why are they so reluctant to put forward a timetable for negotiations with trade union representatives? Why is there so much opacity with the high offices of the consortium? Will you give us the listing and all the information? What about the master plan? , a report that cost sixty_ thousand euros and after two and a half years we do not know that nothing has been applied. You seem disinterested. Did this report serve them well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply by Mr Santi Vila, Councillor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.4.0	Very good morning, very honorable president. Illustrated MP, well, the consortium is one of the most important instruments that we continue to have and that has, as you know, a composition, a rather complex configuration, where they are in relation to the local world and also the Government of Catalonia. I can tell you that in the Project of Presumptions that we are working on the government and that it will soon be available to the chamber there will be an increase in the significance of the presupposition game for the consortium. And not only that: we also foresee in a very short time the reform of the statutes that this Parliament urges us, the Government, to do, to make it possible, finally, that all that is the chapter of staff can be finally assumed and guaranteed from the point of view of financing for the Government of Catalonia. I guess that's what he's worried about, huh? If not, in any case, in the second place we'll finish clearing it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.6.0	Honorable Counselor, so be it. Look, we're for Catalan, because it's part of our cultural heritage, of those who usually talk about it and of those who don't. We are for the right to learn what, to know what and to use it freely; to promote it without imposition, without coercion, without dogmatism and without politicization. And the consortium is a necessary element, balancing the two languages, with their professional and capillary work; that is why we are with the consortium and its people. It is not understood that if the consortium is really a priority, it is not so together with Catalan. Or perhaps for some the priority is not language. but its political, identity and differential revenue? So far, it has seemed so, and perhaps the consortium is not well politicized and that is why it does not serve them. Counselor, its obligation is to ensure Catalan, in positive, with ambition, as a wealth and tool of communication, without confrontation, without grievances, without exclusion, with freedom, with plurality, with common sense. This is what the consortium is for, and this is what we pay taxes for. Be selective, stop financing the Platform for Language and other political associations and projects of the style and give the money to the technicians of the consortium. We ask you to bet with deeds for the good doing of those who have really understood how respect and protection for Catalan is obtained. This is the linguistic policy in positive, open and ambitious, which is their responsibility, for the benefit of Catalan and its speakers, without mixing other issues. And in this you'll have us on your side. We need to know if we can count on you. Thank you, President, Honourable Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.8.0	Thank you very much, Your Honor. What we have witnessed at the world level in the last few hours and its intervention from now on take me off and completely disconcerting me. [[Rialles.]] All the way, huh? I want to think that this zeal and compromise for Catalan language, so you too will be able to transfer them to all institutions if you are responsible for government. I want to remind you, now, that all political action in the Spanish State is done around justice and justice, that still in Catalonia 90 percent of the feelings are in the castle. [[Greetings.]] That said, and to the polemics band, to the polemics band that we can generate, what is certain is that the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization continues to have a very important activity. 50_percent of our fellow citizens, if they were born outside the State, do not understand the català, do not usually use it. Therefore, the consortium is a very necessary, very important instrument. among other things because, fortunately, Catalonia's use of Catalan language is an instrument of social ascent and personal promotion. Therefore, the languages, the service of the citizenry and the service of setting up a society with expectations of progress. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the new employment plans and programmes of the Public Employment Service of Catalonia]] [[310-00133/11]] Second question to the Government, about the new plans and programs of occupation of the Public Employment Service of Catalonia. The question is posed by Mr Bernat Solé, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.10.0	Honourable Counsellor de Treball, Afers Socials and Families, exactly one week ago, the secretary of Treball, Josep Ginesta, made a valuation of the data of the late working population, some data that could show a certain recovery, noting that in the third trimester of this 2016 there was an increase of 25,700 people occupied and a reduction of 8,600 people in a situation of atatur, respect the same trimester of the previous year, and the rate of up to 14,6_per_cent, four points per sub of the middle of the Spanish State. Certainly, given that, for one band, they confirm the trend of growing employment in our country, with thirteen quarters resulting from year-on-year redundancy, but that at the same time they are showing us again the pathologies that the current contracting system has brought to the labor market, with more jobs, but of less quality, and with more part-time or temporary contracts, to the detriment of indefinite contracts; in short, a recovery that the same secretary-general described as low cost. Precisely two of the most vulnerable collections after the economic recession we've experienced in these past few years have been and have been the long-lived and the thirty-five-year-olds, precisely because of the difficulties they find in accessing the labour market again. Today, 660,000 people in our country are still unemployed, and more than 65_per_cent of these people are over 30 years old. Certainly, we are aware that the task carried out by the Occupational Service of Catalonia has made an important contribution to the fact that the trend of growth in the occupation is now a reality. There is no improvement in the occupation without active occupation policies. But in the concrete case of these two collections, which are long-running and which are between thirty and forty-five years old, which concrete programmes have planned their department to facilitate the entry or re-entry of these people into the labour market and thus prevent the chronification of their situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. Further response from Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.12.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. You said very well: there is no improvement in the employability of people without active policies, and I would add that they are adequate in every situation. I, after the data you have said, it is clear that active policies need to change. Therefore, we have nine initiatives, nine initiatives that focus on prioritising the collections of people affected by this socio-economic crisis, but above all those people whom technicians call socio-occupational vulnerability, which can also be social vulnerability or not. That's why we've put four very clear programs that define..., about the collections you've commented on. A long-term program for people of more than 12 months in need of individualized attention – therefore, with a technician at the side – which is a mixed orientation, training, tutoring and follow-up program if there is a job insertion; therefore, with this accompanying technique, a program with a special premise that comes out the week you see, in concrete terms. Another program, which is the program we call 30 plus, for more than thirty years, people from thirty to forty-five years. Never existed; therefore, it is a collection that came out and was affected by the destruction of work places resulting from the crisis, but that really have no problem of exclusion risk. Therefore, it is a quick intervention to prevent chronification in the dark, but above all because it is reintegrating as soon as possible. This program, as I say, is the first time that it's been – never before had there been any, from these ages – and it's part of the real need of the company. So, it's a different view, it's business demand, looking for the right profiles. This is already out, it's already out, and last week it started to be a success for the different SOC offices, and it puts this emphasis above all on stimulating the demand for the labour market. A third program, which is with two..., which are typical business plans, but this time with a salary of a thousand euros, for more than forty-five years. And finally, and more than fifty-five years, for twelve months, that they can have the cotitation, but, more than that, a salary, that what they need is immediate reincorporation, no more training. And finally a contract for qualified young people. Therefore, four visions, all with a feminine look too with a little percent, because it is also one of the other collections. Thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the prescription of sexual offences against minors]] [[310-00134/11]] Third question to the Government, on the prescription of sexual offences against minors. The question is posed by Mr. Jordi Orobig, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.14.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Deputies, deputies, councillor Mundó..., will allow me first to greet the presence between the public of Mr. Manuel Barbero, of the association Mans Petites. We are all aware of the public and media debate that exists in our country in relation to the unfortunate cases of child abuse. This debate has been the subject of follow-up, as well as for many media outlets, which have even questioned and tried to secure the commitment of public representatives at the time of submitting their electoral proposals in accordance with what should be the statute of limitations for crimes of this type. This parliamentary group understands that, like all those in the chamber, it is the duty of the institutions and the good government to age for the welfare of their citizens; even more so when we talk about the collectivities that need a special level of protection because of their particularities, and I think it is quite obvious that the lowest one meets these conditions. Recently, we understand that, sensitive to the social alarm caused by the exhaustion of cases, the spokespersons of the different parliamentary groups have rejected a study that you have entrusted to the Center of Judicial Studies and Specialized Training of the Department of Justice to address, through a comparative right exercise, the differences between the regulation of the prescription of such types of crimes – that is, those victims of which they are minors – in the Spanish legal framework in comparison with other states of Western Europe, such as Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Italy. This report was accompanied by a written statement in which his opinion and focus were obvious to us, in a way that coincided with the setting up of that parliamentary group, which would pay the utmost attention to the victim of the crime, at the same time his vulnerability, which is especially present, I insist, in underage and dependent persons or subordinates to those who exercise a position of strength or dominion. In any case, we understand that the initiative of his department to find coherent and rational responses to the situations that concern society is what it expects of the rulers, and they fully share their reflections, is the interest of this parliamentary group to know which proposal the Government has, and, in this case, the Councillor of Justice, for which he makes the regulation of the statute of limitations of crimes the victims of which are minors, as long as with the existing Spanish legal mark as in the future – and we expect very proper legal mark suitable for the Catalan Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.15.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by Mr. Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.16.0	Thank you very much. Good morning, President. Good morning, Congressman. And, first of all, I thank him for bringing to this chamber a debate that certainly generates great social concern and sensitivity among people, because obviously any act of rape or abuse on people, and especially on minors, is especially repugnant and generates the unanimous rebuff of the whole society, and that is why it is our obligation, too, to make proposals to try to give answers and to ensure that the courts can give answers when such a situation arises. This focus has only been felt from the perspective of the victim, from the perspective of the underage person, in this case, who, as you said, is a person who, when objecting to this type of aggression, to this type of abuse, is probably under a situation of dependence and subordination that many times does not allow him to face with sufficient courage, in his surroundings, this issue. And, therefore, it is important that the law guarantees that when this mature person settles down the courts can still give him/her an answer and they do not find how to answer an archive because the statute of limitations has arrived. The government is sensitive to these questions. The Department of Education and the Department of Work and Social Affairs, in the field of childhood, try to give response and support to all these situations that are given. And that is why, from the point of view of the law and in order to make a debate, it will certainly be removed from the intensity that the current cases generate when these appear, it was necessary to commission a study comparing in our European context how this question is dealt with in order to arrive at different conclusions. The first is that in any order we can compare these are crimes in which there is no prescription. All legal orders provide for a period of limitation, but what is important is to ensure that this period of limitation arrives, as I said, when the victim's maturity allows her to face, in her social environment, in her family environment, in her personal conviction, this question. And that's why the Penal Code of 99 raised the statute of limitations by counting it from the age divide, and that if we add up the twenty years of prescription of the hardest crimes bring to the fact that up to thirty-eight years of age a person can come to denounce this situation and the court can give him an answer. But we understand that this is a scathing period, and that's why the criteria the government takes are the same criteria that the year 2013 took the German State, raising to 30 years the age from which to compute the limitation period of these crimes, so that the twenty years that you are already planning, we would arrive at the age of fifty years, in which, of course, the victims of these crimes will have found the opportunity and courage enough to give an answer. We think this is a proposal that the groups...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.17.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.18.0	I'm done. It's a proposition that the groups... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the Councillor of Justice and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the Mediterranean Games 2017 in Tarragona]] [[310-00135/11]] Fourth question to the Government, about the Games Mediterraneans 2017 in Tarragona. The question is posed by Mr Germà Bel, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.20.0	Madam Counselor, we live in complex times in which the wounds of the economic crisis are tempting many places for internal regression, for the sublimation of identity and for the search for magical solutions to the consequences of globalization. [[Some applause.]] It is a dynamic a little worrying, because it looks like the thirties, in which the reaction to the recession was protectionism: protectionism caused the recession to become depression. Because magic and internal locking solutions never take into account that the other actor will play the same or worse. That's why they're magic solutions. And this morning in the United States there was no example, and we must probably worry about the situation in France in the future. And we must always remember that when we offer magical solutions to real problems, to concrete pains, we are subscribing to solutions like yesterday, because they are the ones that give them the most vigor. And in this context of the question of the international, of the internal regression, it is a great event or events that are taking place in respect of the Games of the Mediterranean, because it is a great event in any event that provokes and intensifys contacts between people of different interests and different countries in this not strictly economic view of globalisation. It had, at the beginning of July 2017, an event with participants of twenty-i-sis countries; an event that 2007 called for the Assembly of Tarragona, that 2009 was given support for this chamber, that 2011 was officially granted, and that we have just announced that there is a proposal for postponing. And I am stunned by the idea that the current assumptions of the central government could not be met, because when they were approved on October 2015, I asked: "As the central government has thought of a support of the type of reimbursement: Gasteu, I will already return and I will already assume it by 2017. ........................................................................................................................................................................... But I can't ask about the central government. What I have to ask you, and this is the function of controlling this chamber, in this complicated perspective in which any international contact is good, what is the government's understanding of the Mediterranean Games? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.21.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.22.0	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Member of the Commission, I believe that, at this time, it is well known from everyone that there will be no Mediterranean Games in Tarragona in the summer of 2017. And the cause, which is only one, is the lack of economic resources that the Government of the State must bring. And that's as much as it is motivated by the flagrant failure of the People's Party government's commitment to the game. The rest of the administration, starting with the Government of the Generality, despite the difficult economic context in which we move, we have complemented what we said. The Assembly of Tarragona has also done it, the Chambers of Barcelona and Tarragona have also done it, and we have shown the greatest interest and we have worked hard because we can celebrate these games that, as you said, and with the current global situation, mediating the vehicle of the sport, without an excellent opportunity to address the Mediterranean, which does not exactly pass for its best moments, a message of concord. The State was committed to contributing around €13 million. Fix 'quantity dick so irritating. And the excuse can't be that it's been more than three hundred working days, that we know, that it has been, and we've noticed it a lot, because that commitment was done before. You have made a chronology of the commitments, and I would like to remind you that there has also been a resolution adopted unanimously at the Congress of Deputies and, even more so, an agreement of the Council of Ministers, where very concrete commitments were pointed out, essential economic resources to guarantee the operation of the games and to build a pool that, in this case, was also absolutely indispensable. Allow me, Mr. Member, to give them the bait for a few moments to address the People's Party, the Parliamentary Group of the People's Group. Do you think you'll do anything? Think of comparing, you who are absolutely missing in this question? Do you have municipal responsibilities at the Tarragona Assembly? Do you want to do the favor of giving explanations, of doing politics? Yes, we already know that it is much easier to resort to justice, but they can't do it here. They make politics, they find these money, they give face and give explanations, and they do not spoil the image of great international prestige of Tarragona and the Camp of Tarragona, which depend on tourism to live and to continue maintaining so many places of work; they are still in time that these games do not escape definitively. Give face, fill, pay, find these resources, which are there, and there are for other things. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. Five questions to the government about childhood, Mr. Millo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.24.0	For a point of order, for a formal question. I would ask the president to remind the members of the government that this is the government's control session, not the government's control session to the parliamentary groups of this chamber. Please, that each person occupies his or her place and does his or her job. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.25.0	Let's get on with the session. [[Ask the Government about childhood]] [[310-00129/11]] Five questions to the government, about childhood. The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.26.0	Thank you, Madam President. Consellera Bassa, what solution has your department given to the children of the tail, minors who live on the street, sniffing tail through the neighborhoods of Santa Caterina, the « furat de la shameya, el Raval i l'estació de França?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.28.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Member, for the question. I don't know whether you know it or not, but we've been working on it. It is a problem that affects... – it is a very difficult problem – that affects the city of Barcelona, and that is why we have agreed with the Consortium of Social Services of Barcelona together with the Assembly of Barcelona. We're working to keep a new space, an integrated socio-educational space for these people. You know it's an addiction problem. And, therefore, here are two things to work on: childhood and addictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.30.0	Thank you, Consellera Bassa. But your answer is not such, it is not an answer. Look, my partner Laura Vílchez asked you, on 19 October, about the abandoned minors dependent on the DGAIA and specifically mentioned these minors, and you called her demagogue. I remind you that the first news about these minors is from April. He warned that among them there could be children fleeing from a DGAIA center, which was later confirmed, and there were fourteen children. The Barcelona syndicate intervened, there was talk of a pilot center in Ciutat Vella, which you are mentioning to me that they are now in dealings to try to solve. The syndic of Greuges also intervened and there was a headline in the newspaper about the syndic that said: "The syndic investigates the performance of the Generalitat with the children under his guardianship addicted to the tail. The aim of the syndic's research is to know what actions the DGAIA has taken to detect and identify children and adolescents who are helpless addicted to the inhalation of glue found in certain neighbourhoods of Barcelona. Look, they're very localized. They are in this solar sleeping with mattresses, they are jumping the roof of this solar; they are sniffing in Plaza Catalunya, next to the Apple store; they are very located. Journalists find them and they can take pictures of them. On October 19, we asked them what their department was doing, called us demagogues, but on October 28, there is new news about these children. Look: "Social workers ask neighbors not to help children in line. And we're from April, huh? « Neighbors and merchants of Sant Pere demand that the children of the tail be removed from the street. Finally, Save the Children tweeted on November 4th: "We demand that DGAIA take measures to prevent minors from sleeping on the street and consuming toxic substances. And you answer me exactly as you said in April, that you were looking at yourself with a centre in Barcelona to assist these minors. Look, these kids inhaling tails are on the street like they're in a state of ethyl poisoning. They must inhale in order not to have blurred vision, suffer depression, brain damage, pneumonia, memory and language disorders, liver cancer due to the consumption of this substance. We already demand that you take them out of the street, that you do what you have to do to get these children out of the street, because it is your department's mission and it is yours. Don't answer each of the questions you ask by blaming us for demagogues, because the Greuges Synod also tells you, and in the end you're always answering the same thing: "We're talking to the city council. Don't talk any more, put them in a facility and give them assistance to those children.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.31.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.32.0	Please. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. Answer the councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.34.0	Thank you, President. Listen, honourable Member, I will tell you again demagog, and I will say it with all the words, because I have said it very clearly. [[Greetings.]] And I'll explain it exactly, because I didn't say that we were talking, I said clearly that we were doing it with the Social Service Consortium. And I will say to him: "They have an educator on the side. Do you know what addictions are? Have you ever worked with addictions? These kids, who are between god and fifteen, and you said it very well, we have them fully identified. But I'll explain something else. Do you know how many children arrive in Catalonia? Seventy a month. Most of them come from other parts of the State, because everyone else, to the other institutions look to the other side... [[remorse of the voice]] And, among other things, a place like Ceuta and Andalusia, which you are ruling.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.35.0	Please, respect the word tower.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.36.0	And I'll make it very clear, because you'll soon have the exact references to where you're coming from and why you're coming. From these seventy arriving, monthly, a 10_per_cent up with drug addictions. For this, together with the Barcelona Assembly, we are working for the additions. They have a reference center each of them. Of these fifteen each has a street educator on the side, but, as you know, addictions involve other attitudes, and other attitudes are behavioral. Talk to your people, from Andalusian City, and ask them why they're coming to Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asks the Government about the tax reform needed to finance social-emergency policies]] [[310-00132/11]] Sisena asks the government, about the tax reform necessary to finance... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, you'll have to silence them to continue. Sisena asks the Government, about the tax reform necessary to finance social-emergency policies. The question is posed by Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.38.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice President, Catalonia continues to grow social inequality and the poor are chronizing, and it already affects various generations of Catalans. Some of them may not have been born, but in change they are already condemned to live and to have guaranteed a poor, badly. Does the government think that it will use the fiscal capabilities of what is available to face a tax reform that allows for more resources and to address this situation, or does it intend to continue to give up tax self-government in order to benefit a minimum share of taxpayers?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.39.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.40.0	The answer is that, obviously, the Government will continue to work on the same line as it has done, increasing some tax figures to increase collection and be able to allocate it to these social policies that you, on the other hand, well know, and that, in any case, I will have occasion to pass on to you the list of tax measures that have been adopted in the last few years in the continuation of your question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.41.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.42.0	Mr. Vice President, you continue to run away from study, but today it has been confirmed that lies keep the cams very short. The government refused, under the 2016 assumptions, to address tax reform, and this was one of the main causes of its failure. He blamed all of us. But now, today, we have discovered these days as you are running the 2016 premise, the extended one. The executioner prefers to complete with the public deficit of the Spanish State imposed by Mr Montoro before with the social needs of the people. You, at these times, are carrying out a presupposition with which, under the guise of disobedience, you are preferring to have public superiority. Certainly, a disobedience that when you use it is clearly seen to have the shortest ways, yet, that lies, I suppose because in your mouth disobedience is a great lie. Mr. Counsellor and Mr. President, you should explain to us why you, Mr. President, say in the general policy debate that you do not have 70_million to improve the minimum income of insertion and, in change, there are 1,300_million to do other things, of which Liceu, Circuit de Catalunya, Fira, Any Ramon Llull. Why? Why do you have these priorities? They have to explain to us why, you say you don't have 70_millions to improve the minimum income of insertion, it turns out you have a surplus, your assumption, of 358_millions, and Mr. Junqueras has boasted of this. Miri, there's room for this tax policy. You don't want to do it because in fiscal matters they are double irresponsible: they are national because they give up their skills and they are social because they prefer to complete with the public deficit of the Spanish State than with the people who have situations of need in our country. I would just like to say that if the Catalan Government is prepared to address this tax reform by 2017, it will count on the Catalonian Parliamentary Group Yes, it is possible to speak, to negotiate and, if necessary, to agree on these terms. Now, if the Catalan government continues to insist on staying well and completing with Mr Montoro and his public deficit, generating surplus at the expense of keeping social emergencies out of priority, I feel it, but it will be against us. You have the word. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. I've got the vice president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.44.0	Mr. Coscubiela, when you prepare a question, let's recommend that you go beyond the simple headline of some news that you read, that you at least try to read it twice and, if you can, that you try to read the news item and listen to the information that we all have available, also from you, in each plenary, because each plenary asks us the same. On tax measures. Some in this Parliament..., some of us in this Parliament, in the last years – I make the list – we have pushed the reduction of the minimum exempt from the tax on assets, the increase of the tax type on documented legal acts, the increase of the autonomic tram of the tax on hydrocarbons, the tax on stays in touristic establishments, the increase of the tax type on capital transfers from 7 to 10_per_cent, the reform of the inheritance tax, the tax on the emission of gases and particulates to the atmosphere, the tax on polluting emissions of nitrogen oxides to the atmosphere produced by commercial aviation... All this has represented an increase of more than 1,000_million euros in the entrances of the Government of Catalonia that we have put at the disposal of social policies, in most cases – in most cases – with their opposition. More – more – we've also... – we've also... [[Funnel veils]] – If I don't know them hard, I will answer them and you will listen to me. In the same way, we have also promoted a battery of measures which, unfortunately, have been dropped by judicial institutions at the instance of the Spanish Government: the levy on the supply of quotas by providers of electronic communications services, the levy on credits, the levy on empty habitats or the levy on the production of nuclear power. Long... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Coscubiela, you can teach me all the newspaper headlines you want, I insist, prepare 'a little more questions to discredit the action of your group. The deixi'm... [[Widow's remorse.]] The deixi'm... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.45.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.46.0	I'm asking for a little bit of time, because...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.47.0	Listen...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.48.0	And you, when you speak of surplus in the assumption of the Generality of Catalonia, allow me, eh? , you are matching a result of a Belgian league match with the result of the final of the Copa Libertadores ; you are matching the balance of operations not financed on 30 September with the combination of the budget balance on 31 December. And you have nothing to see – you have nothing to see. The balance of operations not financed at 30 September is 350_million positive, the balance at the end of year everyone knows that it will be more than 2,000_million euros negative. Mr. Coscubiela, I stopped demagogicizing, I stopped donating expectations that did not exist. Work to improve tax collection as we've done a lot with this list that I've just remembered, try to be useful to the company that surrounds it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.49.0	Vice President, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.50.0	...and help... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the Vice-President of the Government and Economics and History Councillors and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.51.0	Seven questions to the Government, on the commitments made for the Councillor of Salut. [[Ask the Government about the commitments made by the Health Adviser]] [[310-00130/11]] The question is posed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group's Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.52.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, it is said very much that you are the counselor of the great headlines. I'd like to say that you are one of the great expectations and the very solutions. When he made the presentation of his full route in the department he spoke to us and spoke to us here about the incorporation of socioeconomic criteria into primary care. Now we know it won't be possible in the presupposition of the 17th. When he does the great deprivations he says that there will always be a social plan for the workers and now we know that there will be no social plan for the General Hospital of Catalonia. We've seen headlines of works, investments, purchases without any kind of planning and, in many moments, it doesn't seem like there's any agreement in your own group. But let's talk about a compromise, a compromise that you acquired seven months ago with a collection, the infirmary collection, which makes seven months waiting for the Catalan regulation for the nursing prescription. The fight for the state decree, we are all in agreement; but seven months ago you put yourself in front of a demonstration and generated an expectation; an expectation that this collection claims, that it is to be able to work as it has worked so far with the collaborative prescription. Set_months later they have not rejected more than silence. Does the counselor know that they and the professionals have to believe? They believed in truth that they did not only question the state decree, but that they would make Catalan regulation. Does the advisor know that all these headlines and expectations that it generates only cause the citizens to frustrate expectations, which await answers and not words? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.53.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.54.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, were you on the 11th of February at the Health Committee where I explained what were the commitments to this mandate, a mandate we have to divide? I have already announced that if it seems good to the Health Commission, on the 11th of February of the year 2017 I will go to the Health Commission and explain, of all those commitments for the conjunction of the legislature, how many have been completed and how many have not. The other day we were scheduling the schedule for this course and we decided that we would propose this appearance because we have the most interest, at the end of a year, in getting there, taking the power point that I taught you on February 11, 2016 and going over it at once – not what you told me, at the end of a year, not at the end of a year and a half, at the end of a year – as long as they have fulfilled everything, as long as they are at that time in the process of complimenting and as long as they are going to be doing in the months left of legislature. Therefore, we will make a comprehensive rest, at the end of one year of my appearance, as was the compliment of the commitments that I took from all of you. And I'm already telling you that today we know that the degree of compliment, on February 11, 2017, we already know that it will be well over 50 percent of the commitments that will already be fulfilled, because we have already completed more than 50 percent of the commitments that I made to write that day. Therefore, the 11th of February we will be about 50_per_cent, and in change, I will be mid-legislative before I finish doing the work I compromised to do that day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.55.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.56.0	The 11th of February is disbanded, but I have no problem coming here to Parliament to listen to the commitments that the Councillor has made and has completed. Miri, I don't know if you have programmed the schedule of compliments or the media agenda, but beyond its powerpoint, beyond that, you have explained that it will..., that it will increase..., it will increase the greatest presuppositionary of the history of mental health; that we will make the new Hospital Trueta; that it will address the planned investments of the consortium to the Maresme; that it will expand the Hospital of the Valley of Hebron; that it will reverse the model of health transport... Without counting that he has not yet given me an answer to how and when he intends to give an answer to the compromise to make the Catalan regulation for the nursing collection and its prescription. That, just, I told you, is the back of the headlines for the last four months. They are, in reality, expectations generated where later, Mr. Counsellor, you should think of the citizens and citizens who believe that the Government..., do not deserve to be only silent and inaction, what they want are solutions. Among other things I remind him that he's about to approach the waiting lists. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.58.0	I thank you very much for the question, honourable Member, because it really allows me to explain the action we are taking, and it gives me an opportunity. No, no, no, My compromise: new director; he's already appointed. The contest's over and we've got him, Joan Sala. The first public health system's public service development process. Clínica del Vallès: not accompaniment; 1_million euro savings for public archives. Three: incorporation of socio-economic criteria into primary school. Miri, you've advanced me, we're introducing you on November 18 with the scheduled calendar. On November 18th you are invited – we still don't have the place – to make the announcement of the new primary payment system which, finally, after a year of rigorous technical work, we have already managed to close. Mental hello. I hope to see the premise and I assure you that it will be the greatest leap – because it needs, the mental salvation of our country, after these years of crisis – that it will have made the premise in mental salvation. So, everything you're asking me... I really appreciate it, because they're compliments, one after the other. Infirmary – I end up infirmary. With the infirmary I locked a precord in a very short time. With who? With the four infirmary colleges. But I said, and I said publicly, that I also wanted to, because I think it was good for nurses and nurses in our country, that this agreement with the support of colleges of doctors. And we have a lot of months of work week after week, and you know it, and the sector knows it, with colleges of doctors and colleges of infirmary. I am directly and personally protecting this dialog with my colleagues. I'm in permanent dialogue, and my team, with nursing colleges and, as I've always said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.59.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.60.0	...I'll wait to agree with the collèges... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone to the health advisor and this one continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.61.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the liquidation offices]] [[310-00131/11]] Vuitena asks the Government, about the liquidating offices. The question is posed by Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.62.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Vice President Junqueras, you must remember that in July we will approve a motion on the future of the tax agency. The motivation of that young man was the concern of my group, which had and held and maintained, about the deployment of the new territorial tax agency model that, according to the Government, wants to develop and that they intend to directly manage the tax transfers, which at these times manage the liquidating offices. Look, our concern comes in two ways, and we've told it many times and I'll repeat it in case you don't remember. One is the centralization that you make of the model, a centralization that goes from 53 offices to 19, 15 plus 4 that already exist, leaving, therefore, a lot of territories and a lot of cities unsavory. And the second is the ability of the agency to manage these taxes, taking into account that today they are managed by 277 people who are part of these offices and who, without oblivion, make a very important task of paying attention to the contributor and above all to the recapitulation of almost 1,000_million euros, which obviously go into the Generality's arches. A few days ago, you denounced the agreements, the two of you agreed with the registrars. To a band that is not complete with part of the motion that has been approved, neither for what it does to the negotiation nor the information, we would like to know: how do you think you respond to the needs of the territory, with this model that they plant? What alliances are there with the local world? With whom staff do they develop these tasks, tasks that develop nearly three hundred people? And if these people actually get there before July 2017, that's when you intend to manage these functions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.63.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.64.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, honourable Member, for giving me the opportunity to explain it again, because we have had occasion, you, to ask me 'hoi, me, to explain it on various occasions. First of all, remember that last October 25th we denounced the two agreements with the Tax Agency of Catalonia. I maintained with the Autonomic Deganate of the Property Registrars, the recording agreement and the settlement agreement. The recording agreement which expires on 31 December, and the settlement agreement which lapses on 31 October. The denunciation of this liquidation agreement also raises the adoption by the Government, on behalf of the tax agency, of the competitions, on September 1, therefore, with two_months of anticipation, by virtue of public interest, and in order to ensure the efficiency of the service and also to optimize the costs of the deployment process of the agency. You were talking to me about who the forecasts for this deployment are. I have already explained it on various occasions; it is always a pleasure to be able to explain it again here. First: the deployment of the fifteen first offices in the calendar that is planned and that we have explained repeatedly, the first of which will definitely open to the Olympic Village of Barcelona, approximately to the month of February, and which, at this time, is already in progress in the execution of the works of adequacy. We are also following the schedule provided for in other areas, for example, the dozen of offices, at this second level of deployment, which are..., which will be shared with local administrations. And this second level of deployment will be implemented before the year is over and will be operational before September 1, 2017. I, in the second part of the answer, just explained a few more details.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.65.0	Thank you, Vice President. It has the word – it has the word – the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.66.0	I know it's hard, counselor, but these are empty words. Look, Mr. Salvador has come to explain a powerpoint to us; the powerpoint, the paper can handle everything, but what is clear is that there is still no approved assumption that the contract of three hundred people, and less the logger, the reforms and the material that is needed in these fifteen offices, can be completed. But, listen, do you know that there are mayors and that there are assemblies that are voting against this deployment plan? Do you know that there are Republican Left Regiors who are voting against this deployment? Do you know that there are Members of the Barcelona Parliament, of the Republican Left, who are voting against this deployment plan? What alliances have you made to deploy a territorial model that clearly affects the municipalities, the people's services and a territory? How, you, are you dyeing the alliances? How do you intend to solve this problem? And, above all, how do you plan to hire people to manage these taxes that will bring 1,000_million euros into the Government of Catalonia? What I suppose you don't want to get away with, like you do, for example, with a non-tax reform... that doesn't set it up. Mr. Junqueras, you have a hard problem on the table, and what we would like to know is how you think you are building alliances with the local world to be able to answer all the territories and all the citizens of Catalonia, because you don't. And before you dismantle one thing like you're doing, what you should have done is look for another solution, do the right thing. We can't dismantle one thing if we don't have a better solution. And you don't have it, Mr. Junqueras. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.67.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I've got the vice president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.68.0	You may not like her, but you don't like her. She doesn't mean we don't have her. You never have to confuse your taste with reality, or you should try not to. And I insist, the fifteen new offices, the dozen of offices in collaboration with the local entities, the one hundred and forty offices of the tax network of Catalonia. Therefore, this capillary with the territory is perfectly guaranteed. The contract process of two new places of administrative assistants, two administrative places that will be in operation from the 1st generation to make feasible the part of the recording agreement, and also the whole process of conversations to incorporate – we have explained many times – the current workers, because they do this service from the Generality of Catalonia. In this, we will continue to work, even though you say: "But it is not yet finished at all. Certainly, it's not finished at all, but you've made very important passes in respect, and you're not exactly familiar with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.69.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the government about the performance of the squadron mosss]] [[310-00128/11]] Ninth question to the Government, on the performance of the Mossos d'Esquadra. The question is posed by Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.70.0	Thank you, President. Councillor Jané, on 19 October, the CUP sent a request for information – although, of course, not answered – to the Councillor, concerning how the operations were being approached to carry out relocations in which the participation of private companies such as Desokupa, Elite Control, Korsal Project or STM Security is already documented. The cases documented for the press are diverse: dislocation of the social centre La Benaventurada, dislocation of a family to the Hospitallet on October 8th, dislocation of a family to the Raval on August 25th, or to Pacs del Penedès. Social organisations such as the Observers DESC and PAH Barcelona have also denounced it. We are extremely concerned, Mr Councillor, about the collaboration of the Squadron Mosses with private contractors to make relocations, on various occasions without judicial order, to guarantee the right to property of large estates speculating with the 'living'. We are concerned, Mr Counselor, about the affiliation of these companies, directly related to the extreme European right, and which they have played..., and have been investigated, we have it, on the part of the same team. What kind of policy do you intend to hold the councilhouse with these bullies, who act with modus operandi like the mafia and who are linked to great tenors? How do you intend to regulate private activity in operations that must be, in the sense of doubt, public management, at the risk they pose to people? How do you expect, from your department, to guarantee the right to housing and the protection of the family units contemplated in Law 24/2015 and the preliminary draft law on housing in front of the interests and actions of these companies?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.71.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by Mr. Jordi Jané, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.72.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. MP, I appreciate the question, because it can allow the Government to clarify some aspects of the performance of the Squadron Mosses. You allude to some in concrete terms. Tell him that any aspect that I have to deal with with with a bad practice of what is private security, of the companies that dedicate themselves to it, the sanctioning activity in Catalonia of these enterprises correspond to the Government, correspond to the Department of Interior. I pray that they will bring us any action, denounce us, because they will investigate until the end. And if anyone does not complete the law, he will make it complete; and if anyone has to send it, he will be sent out. I'm telling you, from the start, because it's a competition; don't make legislation that doesn't match us, but it does the full implementation of this private security legislation. And, therefore, any aspect..., we are open; any parliamentary group, any city that sees a bad practice, that makes it reach the government, that makes it reach the Department of Interior. For what he does to the performance of the Squadron Mosses, you said it very clearly: when they are the judicial police, they act, obviously, depending on the performance that marks them the judicial authority; it cannot be otherwise. And when they get a complaint from the citizenry, they act with the limits that mark them the law and they can't, in any case, exceed those limits. And, therefore, if there is any concrete action, it will also have to be ignored in this Parliament, that we will give it accounts of concrete actions in which it has not been so. They don't know me, and I'm aware of the good global pocket that the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra does in favor of the citizenry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.73.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.74.0	Counselor, I don't know if it's bad practice or the function of the municipal police, but the facts are obvious: lack of judicial order at times of dislocation; directors of the Barcelona Assembly on land, with members of the Mosso d'Esquadra when they carry out the dislocation of the arm of the private companies; public and common interests versus private interests and Mosso d'Esquadra on the side of the seconds; the beginnings and attacks on the director of the CUP of the Barcelona Assembly by part of the squad movements on various occasions. We understand, Counselor, that it is a clear and firm position of the department in front of these companies, a background investigation of these and specific protocols for actions in these cases. Better practice and better police compliment. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.75.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.76.0	I would like to reiterate to you, honourable Member, that, on a case-by-case basis, I am prepared, as the government, as it cannot otherwise be, to come to Parliament and give us accounts of cases that someone can detect as bad practice and that, perhaps, if he knows everything as he has been, the conclusion is not the same, but I do not want to prejudge. Therefore, you are talking about concrete cases, I tell you that the principles of the code of the police of Catalonia, a democratic police, to the service of the country and acting with a will of proximity to people, this police is subject, as it cannot otherwise be, to the scrutiny of everyone. And, therefore, I also ask you, from this point of view, that we do not anticipate conclusions and that we continue to succeed, among others, in giving value to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra for which you represent, for which you are the servant of the country's citizenship. He's asking for it as well as a deputy representing the city council. She's a police officer at her service; I don't have any doubts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.77.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the compliment of the eighth point of Resolution 1/XI of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the initiation of the political process in Catalonia]] [[317-00087/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political and social situation. The question is posed by Mr Benet Salellas, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.78.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to everyone, and also, President. Today, 9 November, we were willing to claim that it was a year ago that this Parliament approved a solemn declaration in a very determined sense, in which we also profited from the ephemeral that it was a 9 November to recall a 9 November earlier, in which more than 2 million Catalans and Catalans had gone out to the streets to vote for civil disobedience to a constitutional court. And we are willing to claim that in this statement, at its eighth point, it was said that the government that you were going out would be armoring, or armoring workers, the phonological rights that may be affected by decisions of the institutions of the Spanish State. Well, for us, this mandate is important, because it makes it clear that the objective of building a republic is precisely to increase and guarantee rights; that, moreover, it makes it clear that Catalan institutions will always work to shield rights before decisions that may be unfair to Spanish institutions, and, thirdly, because it denounces that the Spanish State is a democratic state. We have seen it and we know it; there are many resolutions and international condemnations, among others, for example, with regard to the king's cream of photographs which, unfortunately, therefore, the information brigade of Mossos de Barcelona is dedicated to investigating offices. In any case, what we want to make clear is that in this country, in the process of emancipation, independence..., there are multiple lives to exercise it and we need to find the formula because everyone and every one feels comfortable. President, can we compliment this eighth point of the 9-N resolution and count that this government will exhaust its mandates as much as possible, and will look for ways and means to ensure that, to the extent possible, the exercise of fundamental rights is carried out?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.79.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.80.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, good morning. This government has been, and will always be, on the side of the defense of the fundamental rights, both those that make reference to freedom of expression, the democratic conquests that characterise the whole democratic society, as it does to the fundamental rights of guaranteeing a life worthy of people, in the struggle against the poor energy, against the emergence of housing, in the right to salvation and food, to education, etc. Therefore, from this point of view, both the capture, the positioning, the government's statement as its political ones, as well as the assumptions, as well as its priorities and its political agenda have been directly – directly – oriented towards building a space or strengthening a country where the fundamental rights are not only irrevocable, but are, as you said and say the statement, absolutely armored.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.81.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.82.0	We, at all times and whenever we have addressed this issue, have wanted to leave aside this debate the performance of the concrete functionaries of the Squad's Cosos de Mossos d'Esquadra. Let us think that the political groups of the chamber must leave aside the value of the performance of the staff of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. We want to look at the political leaders of this thing, Jordi Jané and Albert Batlle, who seem to us not to be acting with the exceptionality that deserves the moment. We..., the detention of the divenders, Montse Venturos, with the normality with which it was laid on the part of the political leaders of the Department of Interior, it seems to us that it does not correspond with the exceptionality that he sees the country and with the need to defend the elected bodies, as this same Parliament approved with a resolution that, if I am not mistaken, in the general policy debate gathered neither more nor less than eighty-three votes in favour. It is not a question, I insist, of criticizing the action of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra; it is a question of whether we have the compromise that the political leaders will work to wherever possible to defend the elected bodies before the injustice of the anti-democratic decisions of the Spanish State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.83.0	Thank you, Congressman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.84.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy, for the defence of the elected officials, the position of the Government, including that of Councillor Jané, and of the assembly of deputies of Junts for the Yes has been clear, unequivocal and admits no type of doubt or speculation. The political position, which is what you claim, is clear. And if it hasn't been made clear to you, I'm asking you to go over the explicit statements in this sense. According to the question, the performance of the Interior Department and the Government in your detention is exactly zero. As it has to be – as it has to be. Because whoever orders a certain action to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra in this context is the judicial authority, and in a separation of powers, like which we defend, the performance of the judicial authority is not subject, at least in Catalonia, to the political criteria. I wouldn't say the same thing or put my hand in the fire for other administrations, as has been shown. But here we want it to be like this. Therefore, before you spoke of "armouring, I now use the word "armouring; shielding the Squadron Mosses", as the democratic police, as the police who are serving the citizenry, as the police, therefore, who strictly obey this separation of powers, and making us grow out of all the tempestaryness of being in the hands of politics in the independent performance of the police. And from this point of view, it's obvious that the police did a scrupulous job – there's nothing to say, there's nothing to say – there wasn't, there wasn't, there wasn't any excesses or busts, and I think that, in the time they're running, it's certainly not just worth respecting, but it's worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.85.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the opinion he expressed in the sense that the new presidency of the United States will open a complicated and uncertain era]] [[317-00091/11]] Eleventh question, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.86.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, this morning we were able to see through the social networks that you showed your concern for the election results of the United States. Allow me to tell you that it is already surprising, therefore, that you show your concern for instability when you are unable to disallow your governing partners when they demand that the Squad Mosos, for example, do not act, do not obey the judgments and do so in politics. That is why, President, and as a result of this concern that you have shown, I would like to ask you: why do you think that the election of the new President of the United States will open an enormously complicated and uncertain era? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.88.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. The honourable Member, you have made use of an expression that I have not said; say: "A concern for instability. I did not use the unstable word. You then read my first assessment correctly, and I think we need to prepare for an extremely complex and uncertain time, and I simply said that it was still more than it was no longer. Therefore, from this point of view I believe, for another band, that I am not the only one; I would say that there is a majority of the world's population, and particularly Europe, which, before the unexpected result, has experienced the same feeling. It's a warning; it's also a compromise. Things will change. And we need to learn to manage a situation that American voters have sorted with complete freedom.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.89.0	Thank you very much, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.90.0	Yeah. Mr. President, first allow me to tell you that uncertainty generates instability. So one thing is related to the other. Yes, I would like to point out to you, therefore, that it seems to us that when you speak of this uncertainty, and therefore unstabilized, from an institutional, political point of view – it was also mentioned – that what would be good is that I applied to you and to your government action, because, clearly, this uncertainty and this political instability, you, therefore, are professionals to apply it. And the last episode that we have experienced here in the Parliament of Catalonia, has had the consequence that from the Government of France we must call attention, not to you, but to the Government of Spain, because they have, it seems, therefore, concern to see how in this Parliament it is intended to colonize regions of France, for example, isn't it? Therefore, this also generates instability. Also, look, I mean it in a very clear way: I don't know if the next president of the United States, huh? , will build, for example, a wall. I can assure you that here in Catalonia, huh? You have built an invisible barrier that separates Catalans from good Catalans, that are the independenceists, and bad Catalans, that we are not. I do not know whether the President of the United States intends to change his immigration policy or not, but here in Catalonia, with his government, what is obvious is that it is not respecting the laws and that it is violating the state of law. Also, I don't know if the U.S. will offer President Trump magical solutions to the problems they have there. What's obvious is that here, in Catalonia, the process solves everything. So, Mr President, what I would like to ask for, and I will finish, is that I stopped trying to give lessons and apply these reflections on instability and its consequences to you. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.91.0	Thank you, Congressman. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.92.0	Thank you very much. I believe it has been made clear in my previous answer which is the government's attitude towards who are the obligations of the Squadron Mosses. You asked the question later, perhaps the prepared one, but I assume that the answer I addressed to the Parliamentary Group of the CUP serves to answer your concern. Of course we're worried about things. From the outset, there is one thing I invite, and his Government, the Government of the People's Party, to practice, which is to assume the realities, even though we do not like them. You are experts to make it clear that the realities they don't like don't count, but there is a reality that it's a trio of American voters, that we don't like, but that it has to be respected, and from here this reality has to be managed. Next. You have to learn to manage, too, to the known uncertainties, the ones that will add to it, because there will be. For example, I'll give you one that has a lot to see with the quality of life here: the climate change. I am very concerned, because this affects not only the economic model, but also the quality of life, health and many other elements – social cohesion, for example. I'm worried. And, therefore, this is an uncertainty that we didn't have a few hours ago, and less after the entry into force of the Paris Agreement, and that we now have, and that we have the right to settle for our fellow citizens to suffer the effects of climate change at first level. Another question that you are trying to address is this confusion between Trump and European populism. Miri, all that people struggle against against populism is the cause of the fact that political Catalanism has always been. Catalanism has always been a militant against the causes that today defend populisms. And, therefore, in this sense, there is not only no change, but, precisely, in the political position of the new president of the United States, Catalanism seems to have enough unanimity. And I'll tell you what, do you know who congratulated...? , the first person in Europe to congratulate Mr Trump is Mrs Le Pen, who precisely on the question of Catalonia has exactly the same position as you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.93.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on guaranteed income of citizens]] [[317-00089/11]] Dotzena questions, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.94.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President. I'm one of those people that this morning in shock I also got bored with the news of the United States, because Trump's victory, after Brexit and after Mrs. Le Pen tricked on the doors of Elisi, so it indicates what are the effects of neoliberal policies when they hit the popular classes, impoverish them, and bring them to exasperation. That is why, for us, it is more important than ever again to talk about redistributive policies and to put the question of guaranteed citizenship income back on the table. Look, I don't know if you're in the midst of the evolution of the poverty that works around this issue, but we're concerned that the political force that supports the government is making proposals that are as unsustainable and as unacceptable as the idea of arriving in the five-year term to achieve a guaranteed income of citizenship that would be equivalent to the income of quantified sufficiency since 2010, without evolution since 2010, or that it is proposed complements per infant that represent a hundred_euros a year, eight_euros a month. The discussion is whether we have social policies or whether we have, as the Americans would say, compassion liberalism.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.95.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.96.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, I believe that calling it neo-liberal policies that President Obama has practiced is an excessive point, among other things, because President Obama took over the situation of the United States at a very critical – very critical – moment, and I think it's just to recognize him that he has returned him to some levels of dignity, for which he does the job, for which he does the social commitments, for which he does the climate change, which I believe – I hope I am wrong – that we are missing. That said, you're worried about something that we're also very concerned about. And I think that in the debate of guaranteed income we must all make an effort not only of realism, but of pragmatism, because there should be no worse things than promising things that you know are incompletable – incompletable – and that, moreover, when you have had the opportunity to govern, you have never practiced. What's on the table is to reach a compromise that we share, and that, numbers in the band, or not, has to solve a question of model: which model do we want? And then, if we agree on the model – and I think the position that the Government and Juntes stand for Yes is not just realistic..., I think it's the one that you recommend, with all respect – then the economic issue will depend on the presuppositions that you share and know, and the possibility that this Government has to generate or not more resources. But, the model, do we agree with the model? Can we agree on the model? I'm asking him this question because you're worried about him. And you know our position. And the position is not to go far and get us out of which is the xifra to which the promoters expect to arrive some day, that's not it. Now, are we okay with the model or not? And we have a clear proposal. And it's a very solid proposition. I ask them to value it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.97.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.98.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, I think that Mr. Obama had difficulty reversing years and years of neoliberal policies that have lasted many decades in Europe and the United States, and in England and France and here in Spain, too. Miri, says: "When we rule. The Barcelona Assembly now grants aid per child of EUR 100 per month, not of EUR 8 per month, and it is the Barcelona Assembly. I mean, when we're willing to do things – and he says to us, "When you rule," we do. And look, here's the question..., the model that we defend is not an invention of our parliamentary group, it's the guaranteed income model of citizenship that defend the conjunction of entities, that will certainly go out to the street to claim it on the 19th, huh? , and that they are the ones who have promoted ponència and popular legislative initiative. The question of realism is whether we are realists at the time of taxation and of going to look for resources there where they are or if we give up doing it. Naturally, we are aware that we are making uncomfortable proposals, with the reform of the IRPF's upper tram, the imposition of successions, but indeed, the minorities to whom we intend to make more contribution may have more media power and influence in their government than the popular classes that would benefit from a guaranteed income from citizenship. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.99.0	Thank you, Congressman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.100.0	Thank you very much. Sir, when I was referring to the government, I was referring to the government, too. And the Barcelona Assembly is not the first time the government, you, has spent a few years. Let me now tell you that it is now – now – that they have given a hundred-cent aid and tax the children when they have had the opportunity to do so as many years as they have ruled, I think it does not invalidate what I gave them. But that is not the object of the discussion. The object of the discussion is the model, which you have avoided now. Do you agree or not that the guaranteed income is vague associated with active employment policies? If that's the case, we're a little closer, because what separates us is that you accept that guaranteed income has to have – it has to have –, it has to serve for active employment policies. Why do we agree, or not, that the best social policy is to work? And that the way to encourage work is the active policies of occupation? Therefore, from this point of view, he agrees with the model, accepting that this is a principle that we cannot give up and that we will tend to the xifra that a guaranteed income has to settle, and that we pose on the paper that, in the sense of doubt, will settle down.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.101.0	Tretzena asks the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the non-attendance to the conference of autonomous presidents]] [[317-00088/11]] The question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.102.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Most honourable President, I know that I must be careful, especially when I congratulate others or speak of third parties, but [[I'll give you the applause.]] It will allow me... – I am sure –, it will allow me to congratulate the institutional attitude of your Government for what it does to the celebration of the Games of the Mediterranean in Tarragona and also to congratulate the Councillor of Interior for a complex, delicate management, attentive to the questions of security and public order, and to congratulate the Mossos d'Esquadra for this same motto. But now I'm going to the question. President, could you confirm or deny that you do not intend to participate in your own conference of presidents and who are the reasons for your decision?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.103.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.104.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, don't get used to congratulating me, but I appreciate it, but I already believe the sayings [[relays]] Because he's turning into a classic, that's his congratulations. Anyway, believe it, given the outcome, that you're defending federalism and here independence gives us a point of hope, huh? I also thank you for what you have described, let us say, as a correct, institutional attitude with the Games of the Mediterranean. I take this opportunity to reiterate once more the support for a country event, an event that needs Tarragona and that needs the country, and that inexplicably finds itself with the emptiness... – well, inexplicably not, because it also adheres to tradition – the emptiness of the Spanish State's failure, which puts it seriously at risk. And he knows the mayor of Tarragona who's gonna hold us next to him, from the people of Tarragona, to defend his position. Say that, what is it that recommends me not to watch? I'll be brief: the experience. And I will add it: also because, as we have said since the beginning of the legislature, this is a period of post-autonomism and it would not fit people or even have, in this period of post-autonomism, the most classic and failed behaviors of the most rancid autonomy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.105.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.106.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. President, do you know who your obligations are? Do you know the obligations laid down by the law? I remember them in case. You have the highest representation of the Generality and are also a regular representative of the State in Catalonia. According to the Law of the Presidency of the Generality, to you correspond, precisely, in exercise of the highest representation of the Generality – I quote literally – "to maintain relations with the authorities of the institutions of the State, of the autonomous communities and of the local authorities and of the public administrations, and also with the authorities of the international sphere, and in representation of the State correspond to it – and I quote literally – "to request the collaboration of the authorities of the State exercising public functions in Catalonia. President, I do not like to remind you that you do not only represent the independenceists, you represent an institution that is of all Catalans and, therefore, despite the experience that you can accumulate or your vision of the current game, you do not have to miss your obligations. You have to defend Catalonia's interests wherever you go, and the conference of presidents is an adjunct instrument for bringing Catalan applications and proposals to it, especially if we need to talk about financing. It's the fourth conference of presidents. The five previous presidents Mas, Montilla and Maragall, have been in reverse order. Listen to me, it's true that the financing system would have to come into force in 2014, but if it didn't do what today? « Don't we care anymore? , "is it the same for us as they do? , « don't we have any proposals to make to it? Someone has to speak on behalf of Catalonia at the conference of presidents, and this someone is you, it's your obligation, and if you don't feel able to defend Catalonia's interests then let someone else do it, because you don't have the right to leave Catalonia without seeing where we can defend our interests. Please, President, correct; it's your obligation and it's for the best. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.107.0	Thank you, Congressman. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.108.0	Thank you very much. Mr deputate, on the defense of Catalonia's interests where, in short, theoretically according to you, you decide things, you could do a master's degree, because it is not that you have remained well standing your position in the defense of the PSC's attitude and its proposals between the PSOE, and we have already seen how it has ended. It's clear that the obligations complement them, complement them with writing, and all, and with all sorts of emphasis, the obligation to defend the interests of Catalans... This is the document I gave to Mr. Rajoy, the forty-six points, huh? If you want, then, as Mr Albiol has a lot of interest, we can do an exact rest where he is. Who fails to fulfil their obligations repeatedly these three years? The Government of the State, which is now trying to present to us what is an obligation, which is to reform the financing system, as one thing before which we must pay tribute. It's been three years since it's expired, it's been three years since it's expired. In these incompliments of the current expired financing system, in this reality, there are some incompliments that are not yet satisfied and the least that the Government of the State should expect is that in order to be able to summon the presidents of the autonomous communities to defend a new financing model, it is to say: "I have completed everything that was pending from this model that has expired three years ago. And believe me, unfortunately, our theories about why Catalonia does not have to lead the reform of the financing model are confirmed by reading today's press. There is no need for Catalonia to participate to awaken Catalanophobia. The president of Galicia has just said that he will not accept, at any moment, that there is a financing model that satisfies Catalonia. So, then, what? Does Catalonia have to be dissatisfied? And fixed's, that without participating. Now imagine 'that we participated actively.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.109.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the non-attendance of members of the Government at meetings of the inter-autonomous and state collaborative bodies]] [[317-00086/11]] Fourteen questions, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mrs Inés Arrimadas, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.110.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I will insist on a question which, for us, is of special importance. One of the first demands that Ciutadans has placed on the People's Party government has been the beginning of the negotiation of a better system of financing of the autonomous communities and that is why a conference of presidents has been convened, to which you have just confirmed that you do not intend to attend. But it's not just that. On the other hand, her education counselor yesterday called herself, certainly giving a very bad example to the students, and did not go to their respective meeting. The question is very clear: from then on, Mr President, the Catalans must understand that our President and our Government will not be at the table where they are negotiating and deciding policies that affect Catalans, such as health policies, financing policy, infrastructure, etc.?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.111.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.112.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Just to clarify the situation of the Education Counsellor: at these moments she is in California to participate in a world event dedicated to education, in which, by the way, she was invited as a government and was not invited, by the way, the Spanish State, together with other countries [[some applause]] That they have great interest in improving education. That said, the best of the financing system, of course we expect. It is that we wait... you will agree with a demand from this Government that we have reiterated and reiterate at the meeting that I hope we have with the President of the Spanish Government, as I have already asked. Do we agree or not that before we talk about what commitments the Spanish Government has made in relation to the new financing system is paid all that has not been satisfied with the expired financing system? Because it's no use saying: "We'll make a new financing system and then the old one that we haven't completed we put the counter to zero. I believe that it is essential for the defence of the interests of Catalans who before the Spanish Government pay for everything that has been incomplete all these years.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.113.0	Thank you, President. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.114.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I believe that the Councilwoman has said that she does not intend to go and, moreover, she has not found anyone from her department, anyone of her confidence to send in her place. We already know that you go around, around the world, sometimes with very little success, by the way, while you neglect your responsibilities here. But I tell you one thing: you just want to hear about independence, but Catalans are affected by many other things. And you lived very well with an absolute majority PP, with a Spain without reforms, with the institutional blockade. And now that we are forcing the People's Party to start reforms and dialogues, you are not going. That's why they voted against a change of president, that's why they voted against a president of the Socialist Party, that's why they voted against a change of government in exchange for reforms. Because you rightly – sometimes – complained about the lack of dialogue and the lack of reforms. But now that it opens, you don't go, and you see the plumber a lot, a lot, because with that attitude many Catalans think that you will be the absent president. And with that attitude, many Catalans think that their government is a non-existent government, inside and outside Catalonia. Within Catalonia, because we do not know what economic policy they have beyond independence, because they do not dare to talk about fiscal policy because they do not agree, because nobody in the health sector understands what Mr Comín wants to do. But also outside Catalonia, because you don't go to meetings. And not only do they not go, but they insult other autonomous communities, as Mrs Bassa has just said, with an absolutely intolerable comment. [[Greetings.]] What you would like is for the Catalan chair to be empty in those negotiations. You want to isolate us and confront the rest of Spain, the rest of Europe; but we are not going to allow it, because even if you do not want reforms in Spain, not only of the financing system, but of autonomous ones, for example, as we presented yesterday in the Congress of Deputies. We want Catalans to be able to continue to lead the reforms that are being carried out in Spain, and I am convinced that we are going to get it in one way or another, and we are going to get it not thanks to you, but despite you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.115.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.116.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. The honourable Member, this enthusiasm for the obligations to reforms of the People's Party, looks forward to the end, because we will see what is the exact result of this ambition and whether the degree of enthusiasm corresponds to the degree of abst and the ambition of reforms to which the People's Party can be compromised, which, sadly, we know is what its attitude is from many years ago. Look, the opportunities for the Government of the State to have appeared and to have completed with Catalonia have been many, many; the list is huge and you should know it. Because if they don't know her, then they may fall back into the mistake of thinking about this extreme bond of the Spanish Government, which is always waiting for the autonomous communities to fix her situation and tell her what they expect to get from the Spanish Government. No, it's not like that anymore. Do you have any proposal to make the Spanish government, beyond the mockery of making it look like...? Do you have a proposal to make or not? We've been asking him for it for years and we haven't felt anything. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, you're the influential ones now. You say they're influential; they influence. What exactly is the proposal for Catalonia? And what proposal do you make on the issue of financing? We'll be happy to listen to her and we said we're willing to listen to her. Now, no, let's just say, you're sacrificing these sectoral meetings and these bilateral commissions. Fixed, I will only give you the data of the Environmental Sectoral Commission. Do you know how many communities went there? Only six. Certainly, the leader of the People's Party; nor did Madrid go there. Therefore, the utility of these commissions... who has the problem is not who does not go, we are not the only ones, but who summons them. Really, so many years later, they didn't ask about the utility, to be yours, of these kinds of mechanisms? Wouldn't it take me to make a review of whether this is the form or, in any case, the petition for this bilaterality that Catalonia has always demanded would not be the best way?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.117.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the position of the Government in relation to the determination shown in the last two years for thousands of Catalans in contrast to the performance of the Spanish Government]] [[317-00090/11]] Fifteenth question to the President of the Generality on the latest political developments. The question is posed by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.118.0	Yes, thank you very much, President. Very honourable President, today, as was said, it is 9 November, a date that marks a long time before and after our country. There was on November 9, 2014, in which the most powerful act of national affirmation was produced before the threats of the State: 2.5 million Catalans put a paper in a ballot box. This for some is a crime, putting ballot boxes and papers down. It is on 9 November 2015 that, with the declaration of the iniciator of the process towards independence, the greatest act of determination that this Parliament has experienced was produced, despite many threats: seventy-two Members were going to vote in favour of this resolution. And for some, too, it turns out that it's a crime to be loyal to your commitments to the citizens. Therefore, democracy, affirmation and determination, these are the elements that have inspired and inspire the process that Catalonia saw. Affirmation and determination that he is not, at all, renegade with the permanent will of the dialog to go and seek an agreement with the State; with which he is renegade or would be renegade is that the citizens of Catalonia are not the ones who have the last word. On a day like today we believe that it is opportune to make an act of reaffirmation, of reaffirmation of our will to bring forward our commitments to the citizens, of reaffirmation that the future of Catalonia will be decided by the Catalans and the Catalans and not by the court, of reaffirmation that despite the evil arts of the State in all its dimensions, this will not take us away from the full road that we have predicted and of reaffirmation, in short, that everything that we are doing does not have any other objective that is that the citizens of Catalonia can live better, can have more expectations, can have more protection. Today, November 9, from Junts for the Yes we want to make this act of reaffirmation of our determination. And that is why, President, to ask you, we want to ask you what is your government's understanding of the determination shown for hundreds and hundreds of thousands of citizens of Catalonia these past two years in contrast to the performance of the Spanish State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.119.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.120.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, indeed, the people of Catalonia have appeared many times. In fact, he's appeared as many times as he's asked. And this contrasts with the repeated incompetence of the Spanish State, which, as on this occasion as on the other, does not like the reality you see, it is hard for it to recognize that there is a reality, it would please you to be hidden under a stretch and make it see that nothing happens and continue forward. And persistently, and happily, the people of Catalonia, in a round way, in a way, also, absolutely democratic, peaceful and exemplary, has always manifested themselves in a very determined direction, which is what you say: the future is at our hands. We have to ask ourselves: and in whose hands, if not? [[Pause.]] Go on, do you have any other proposals? [[Pause.]] In whose hands do we lay our future, if not in our own hands? [[Pause.]] One thing so obvious, that we have to repeat it day and day too, turns out that we don't only have to defend it against a very powerful opponent – because, even if we dilute ourselves, what it does is to wait for us – but we see, also, that it has judicial consequences. That's the answer we've found so far. The answer to November 9, 14: 2,300,000 people..., more than 2,300,000 people mobilising peacefully, festively, to express an opinion; November 9, 2015: a Parliament will rise to take decisions. In both cases, what are the consequences? [[Pause.]] A change in political position? Self-criticism? [[Pause.]] A reflection, to say: "Home, maybe things are not doing them well? No, no, The only answer, the only movement was judicial, criminal: to pursue those democrats who have done such a thing – so and so – esoteric in Spanish democracy as it is to complete the electoral program, to complete with the cry of the citizenry. And that is why, surely, as in the culture of people, the political culture of people who do not understand this, this generates a rebroadcast, the only answer, I insist, it is not politics, but it is judicial. But it is also so, these days, yesterday, at the Congress of Deputies a wide spectrum of parliamentary groups approved the petition to which the President's adviser, Mr Francesc Homs, was entitled, because he could be tried by the Supreme Court, charged criminally, to have put the ballots, to have made it easier for people to vote on 9 November of the 14th. Well, what's the best way to keep us loyal to the people's commitment and the Parliament's task force? So make this whole thing turn into reality. And reality is saying "referendum" and "referendum" 2017 for Catalonia's independence. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.121.0	Thank you, President. [[Catalan-Exterior Community Law Projects (totality debate)]] [[200-00015/11]] After the control session, we continue with the next item on the agenda, which is a totality debate on the Catalan Community Law Project. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative is presented on behalf of the Government of the Generality, Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency. [[Widow's remorse.]] They ask them to be silent, please, and in a hurry, so we can continue the session. [[Pause.]] Counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.122.0	Well, good morning. First of all, let me start this intervention with the opportunity, which we have long hoped for, to present, at least in parliamentary procedure, the draft law of the Catalan community to the outside world. It's a project that came up after working together with this community and a long time ago. We are, therefore, presenting a draft to Parliament, which is a legal text, which allows, in short, an explicit recognition of the specificity of external Catalonia and which, at the same time, gives an answer to the needs of the Catalan emigrants. We had, in fact, an approved law already, the year 1996, which opened a path in this matter. We have, tanmateix, many limitations that we need to overcome. That text has become essential, and, therefore, we still have, at these times, very important changes to face from the point of view of the management of our emigration. First of all, it has been said many times and I believe that it is an unquestionable fact that the cruel economic crisis, of which many times we speak, has led to an increase in the emigration flow from Catalonia, which in the last seven years has grown by 83_per_cent. This puts us in a position that, out of the 144,000 registered in 2009, we have gone to 264,000 in 2016. And this increase has been particularly striking from the point of view of intergenerationality: not only have young professionals emigrated. And that made, for example, around 20 per cent of these Catalans less than seventeen years old. Secondly, information and communication technologies and facilities in international mobility have transformed the nature of the Catalan communities abroad as well as the relations between the Government and these communities, which, today, we remember, are already 141. Moreover, since the law of 1996, the Statute of Autonomy entered into force in 2006, the first recognition in Article 13 is given to the existence of Catalan communities abroad, as well as other sectoral or basic standards. This set of changes, therefore, makes it inaudible to rethink the organization and functioning of the existing collaboration and to refocus the services that we can offer to us to set up a new relationship. In fact, the same Catalan entities abroad have repeatedly called for a new law, a law that obviously replaced that of 1996. The main political forces with parliamentary representation have joined this petition both in their parliament and in the framework of the Council of the Catalan Communities of the Exterior. And it is therefore a necessity to act. Acting according to the time we live in and the government's willingness to make an explicit recognition of the role of external Catalonia bring us, precisely, here today. But who are the novelties that incorporate this bill with respect to the previous law? In the first place, the bill supposes a decisive and firm move forward in the conception of the Government of Catalonia's relationship with the Catalans residing abroad. Although at the 1996 law the subject of the relations were exclusively the entities, in which Catalan citizenship is organized externally, with this project is also intended, also, to regulate the relations that the Catalan institutions must maintain with the citizens residing abroad. Thus, the concept of "external Catalonia" responds to the sum of Catalans residing abroad and the entities in which they are organized. Secondly, the bill wants to recognize Catalans abroad as subjects with rights and rights to government and public policies of the Administration of the Generality. This means, neither more nor less, that we recognize its specificity in the establishment of public policies and normative dispositions and promote the development of specific policies addressed to this collection. We also develop mechanisms in the framework of the law to incorporate this collection into the design and development of the different sectoral policies of the Generality, when these are of interest or directly addressed to the emigrant population. It is, therefore, that, as the government, we assume the responsibility of establishing a comprehensive, coordinated and cross-cutting policy of the Catalan emigrant party with public policies to accompany and advise the international mobility of Catalans and Catalans at the initial moment, to maintain its link with Catalonia during its external stay and, obviously, also, because it is a necessity, to facilitate its subsequent voluntary return. In the third place, to build up this new framework of relations between foreign residents and the institutions of their country of origin, the Catalan Foreign Register is the key. It is provided for in Article 5 of the draft law. This must be the means by which the Government can identify the citizens who have the political condition of Catalans, according to the Statute of Autonomy, and who reside abroad. Even though the register has already created the year 2014, we now want to make a leap forward by turning it into an instrument of greater precision that allows us to give better response to the needs of our emigration and thus guarantee a better design of public policies. An example of the questions we raise is to help solve the current problems for the exercise of the right to vote of our diaspora. We hope that this bill of law and that of the electronic vote can evolve, so in parallel – as, in fact, is happening – to overcome this difficult democratic deficit. Fourthly, today's text up to this chamber predicts that the government will guarantee the protection of Catalans residing in the foreign country. From the government we are aware of the competitive limitations in the consular field, but I want to recognize the task that the government and its delegations and offices abroad are doing to accompany the Catalan citizens who find themselves in difficult situations abroad. That is why I think that the parliamentary handling of this bill also needs to be used to initiate a necessary debate on how to guarantee this protection and begin to implement the tools that an independent Catalonia must have to give an integral consular service to its citizens abroad. Finally, in five places, the bill also wants to encourage those actions that our citizenship abroad brings to term to contribute to the international projection of the country. Today, as a result of globalisation, there are Catalan citizens to a large part of the world's countries, and we need to be aware of their role as active agents of a public diploma, a civic diploma, and prominent ambassadors of Catalonia, in the different fields in which they obviously work. We value, therefore, their task of dissemination and of the political, social, economic and cultural reality of Catalonia, and therefore, like the government, we will also accompany them by enhancing social, cultural, economic and political relations with those countries where there is an important presence of Catalan citizens, as well as with institutions and social agents. The new bill kept the government's financial support and support to the Catalan communities abroad, as well as improving the role of the Council of the Exterior Catalonia as an advisor and collegiate external consultation and participation that will now count on a coordinating committee for the follow-up and evaluation of the work plans that can be set up. In short, and by the end of the day, with this bill the Government wants to make our commitment to those Catalans who, for the following reasons, have left Catalonia to live in another country, as well as to the 141 Catalan communities abroad, which have long been the result of cohesion vehicles and relations between the Catalan citizens residing abroad, as well as between them and the institutions in Catalonia. Some are Catalans by will; children and grandchildren of Catalans or well Catalans of origin who have never forgotten their origins and who is the central punch of their identity, without this being an obstacle to integrating into new societies. This external Catalonia, formed by Catalans of choice and conviction, deserves more than our luonian sympathy, it deserves to feel close to the Government of our country and know how to pose for its service. This bill, therefore, is instrumental in making it easier for the Catalan diaspora to take part, as one more actor, in the future collection of our people. It will be, as has always been the case in the Catalan history, in our ability to add all the collectives to the common enterprises, as we will succeed in moving towards scenes of greater cohesion, closer coexistence and wider freedom. Thus, the ultimate meaning of this bill is to materialize the institutional will, also, if it goes beyond, of this Parliament; to design the spaces of relationship and the mechanisms that make it possible to accompany and strengthen external Catalonia, which means, in short, to strengthen its people. I'm sure we won't miss the date. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.123.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. In the first place, for the defense of the emena to the totality presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Ms. Susana Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.124.0	Thank you, President. Well, honourable counselor, certainly, and as you have just told us, the ultimate meaning of this bill is to find all the necessary mechanisms that make it possible, so that Catalans and Catalan communities abroad are recognized and strengthened much more than they have. Despite these good proposals and this good will, we believe that this bill does the opposite, don't we? And I'll explain why. It is a bill that..., the title of this bill is said: « Catalan community abroad. Article 1 already leaves us all out. I read: "This law has as its object the framework of the relations of the Generality, its institutions and the Catalan society with the Catalans residing abroad, as well as with the Catalan communities established outside the territory of Catalonia. His institutions and Catalan society, relations with the Generality, with the Catalans residing abroad, as well as with the Catalan communities established outside the territory of Catalonia... ; and under a generic title, which has this law, which is: « Law from the Catalan community to the outside. What's that supposed to mean? That the moment there's a català who lives, for example, in La Rioja is already an outside català? Is a català outside a català found in Brussels? You see, we are at a time when we are citizens of the European Union, that is to say, we are at a time when we already have all the rights of citizenship recognized, we are in a much wider area. And when the Constitutional Court was good, because it's obvious that it's not so good now, but when the court was good, back in 1995, he already said that the whole area of the European Union was an inner space, it couldn't be considered as an outer space. Then, as is this law, that what it wants to protect us is even more, so when we get out, it is not, for example, said the « law of Catalan communities abroad and to the European Union, for example, isn't it? This already makes us, of course, stay out and stop having a lot of rights, and I don't know if they're already thinking of an independent Catalonia outside the European Union and that this has made this article 1 stay the way it's been written. Second place, and following with that last spirit that you said, didn't you? , to find these mechanisms to make it possible to strengthen all these rights. We find missing in this bill all that are mechanisms of cooperation and coordination. I mean, there are rights, there are institutions, organizations that defend and protect Catalans abroad and in the case of the European Union. We have all the foreign service of the State, that is, we have embassies, we have consulates... In these embassies and in these consulates there are Catalan diplomats, who, together with other diplomats, do very well their work. Of the consulates we have the councils of Spanish residents, in which Catalans also participate, and which have functions in cultural matters, in educational matters, in matters of social services, in labour matters, etc., which assist these consulates and these embassies, and you, in this bill of law, say nothing at all. And surely what it's all about is to see how this is articulated, so, because we're much better than we are now. It's a bill of law, so it's not a political resolution. What they're claiming is that this is turning into a law. And you, most of the time, make reference to the fact that you will respect the law in force, but not to mention what you mean by the law in force. There are elements to the Statute of Autonomy, there are elements to Catalan laws, but, in change, there is nothing to Spanish laws, and it could also be done by laws, under European Union regulations, which protect the rights of Catalans to the outside and also to the European Union. This generates a lot of uncertainty, and more so because the object is that this becomes a law. There is a statute that does not make any years that are in force, that is the State of Spanish citizenship to the outside, that was approved in 2006, that goes back a whole series of rights, that are common rights to all citizens of Spain, and, therefore, also to Catalans, that regulate petition rights, rights to information, social rights, cultural rights, educational rights, healthcare... That is, a whole set of rights that cost me a lot of seeing what the added value is, when we talk about Catalans to the outside, of this bill that doesn't have this State of Spanish citizenship to the outside. I have a lot to see, among other things, because the State of Spanish citizenship abroad is much more concrete, it is much broader than the right, which it wants to protect all the citizens of the State, and, therefore, also the Catalans, and I have not just seen that... as I said, what is the added value that this bill could have. In relation to this, too, therefore, the rights of European citizenship. Why don't they just leave? Why is it not clear that one of the rights of European citizenship is to be represented, to be assisted when in a third country, so there is no representation of the State, and therefore we can be assisted by one Member State, another Member State of the European Union? This too; there is not enough, that is to say, to be explained. People, citizens, need to know, and that's important, because this favors, this protects the person much more where he is. There are no European citizenship in this matter, so we should find them. It's about the delegations, isn't it? , and in relation to this lack of concreteness that must have all the law, not only for what it does to the existing right, and also for which are the mechanisms and institutions and bodies that must lead us to protect Catalans much more abroad and in the case of the European Union, they are..., it is an element that you do, in Article 7, from government delegations abroad. I quote: "Government delegations abroad provide guidance and advice, so as to facilitate this access and these other services in favour of Catalans abroad that is determined. Thus, according to current legislation – always without specifying current legislation – "the right and international treaties, delegations can perform other protection functions for Catalans residing abroad that may be assigned to them. It is to say, "So, according to the rules in force, the right and the international treaties. "The right, what right? The right of space, the internal right, the right of Venice, the European right? What international treaties? There are thousands of international treaties. Moreover, the international treaties that can have effects on Catalans are the international treaties signed for Spain. What deals? You are not, for example, the law of external action, the law of the external action service of Spain, it is explicitly said that to delegations outside autonomous communities, therefore, the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations or the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations will not apply. You may already be preparing a law that you can then serve in a hypothetical state because, therefore, these delegations abroad can be converted into embassies and consulates? I do not know, however, in any case, this vagueness does not help in any way to protect Catalans abroad and the European Union. Moreover, it is a repetition: "according to the rules in force, the right and international treaties. I insist, that... what's the difference? But..., "rules in force, law... and five international treaties? Register – you have also said this now in your oral presentation –; they want to strengthen the register that was established two years ago to be able to protect, to be able to watch much more Catalans abroad. As Article 5 says: "The register of Catalans residing abroad is the important tool, it is the tool by which the Government identifies the citizens. Let's see, honourable counselor, two years ago, all of us remember 9 November, all of us remember the record of Catalans and Catalans residing abroad, and my question is, do you really think that a catalan who doesn't support the process, because you don't believe it, because it's all over, that's to say, it doesn't support it, will register in this record? A Catalan outside, from Brussels, or a Catalan outside, from La Rioja, or a Catalan astronaut who is at these times or perhaps thinking of going to space, you believe that you are registering in this register because you identify us and to make a process constitute, a constituent election or a referendum? The answer will be 'no'. But not because we say it, because the citizens are very clear about it; they learned the lesson two years ago – they learned the lesson two years ago. Therefore, following the precautionary principle, perhaps, when these divisions pass, there may be Catalans abroad and in the case of the European Union who see much more thanks from this register than they do now and not at this time. In short, Counselor, we do not believe that this is a bill that intends to protect and improve the conditions not only of the Catalan communities abroad, but also of the Catalans abroad, because it leaves us out, almost out of the European Union, out of the world. It is a law, as it is written at these times, involuntarily, against the nature of the rights we already have – of the rights we already have – and which places us outside. Maybe today as well, so, you said, no? Preferably, to the questions, today is a good day, it is a day when many things have happened, on November 9th, and perhaps it is a good day, seeing as the world is, to remember the rights we already have, the rights we already have, the ones we are, the ones we already have, the ones we already have, the rights that make it easier for us to be citizens of Spain, the fact that, for example, we can now have the opportunity to reform the vote. And that certainly Ciutadans will be influential in this, and that will make it easier and that will benefit not only the citizens in Catalonia or the Catalan citizens, but the whole bunch of Spaniards; not only that, but we also have rights of European citizenship that can help us where we are, in the world, to protect ourselves better. And I also think it's important today to remember where our home is. This is very important, just to enforce these rights and freedoms. Our house is La Rioja, our house is Brussels, our house is Berlin, our house is Paris. And in this march it has cost a lot, therefore, to build this body of rights and freedoms of people, I understand that the compromise not only of the Catalans who are here, but also of the Catalans abroad is to help remember and recognize these rights, to improve this house, that it is our home, because it is also a house of ours that is gathered by people who want to get here and also want to have these rights and freedoms. We rely on the Catalan communities outside and on the Catalan communities within the European Union to help in these tasks and that is why we need these mechanisms of collaboration with all those bodies and institutions that have to do with the protection and assistance of people, but I will be very clear, counselor, with this bill cannot be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.125.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, for the defense of the totality presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has the words of Mr. Juan Milián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.126.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, we will do what we can, because those of us who are ill of American politics have had a little long night. The People's Party presents a statement to the totality to this draft law of the Catalan community to the externally phonatively for three reasons. The first of these is because we have more than reasonable doubts about their constitutionality, at least some of their articles, specifically those that refer to public diplomacy. Let us remember that the Constitutional Court kept the suspension of all the articles of the Law of Foreign Action that make reference, concretely from 34 to 38, because, as the Court's resolution says, this action is not linked to the exercise of the generality's own competences and can seriously harm Spain's interest, the interest of Spanish foreign policy and its international relations. It is obvious that it is intended to harm Spain's interests. Actually, don't assume anything else, it's the only one they've done these years. But, above all, the current independentist government that is harming Catalans. Secondly, we present a totality of questions because we believe that the only one that motivates this law is what is explicitly recognized in its presentation of motius; it says that the Catalan diaspora can play an active and proactive role in the national construction of the country. This will basically develop with the Catalan Register on the outside and with the intent of political control of communities through the criteria for the grant. In the third place, we present this message because one more time you have forgotten about people. If any thought had been given to the Catalans who had to leave, they would not have proposed this law, now that we are emerging from the economic crisis and creating places of occupation; they should have introduced it to the heart of the economic crisis and with other priorities. They arrive late and arrive badly. The fact that the Catalan communities abroad have needed these years and now need more assumptions, more money, and not national constructions; more economic help and less political leadership. This bill should be focused on the more than 260,000 Catalans currently living outside of Spain. Some of these Catalans, not all of them, but a very important number of them, have found in these communities abroad a network, a first network to be able to land; they have found to the couples, associations, groups or Catalan centers of the world a point of support. This situation has caused the founding objective of these communities to have somehow changed: rather dedicated to cultural diffusion, to the diffusion of Catalan language; they now see, therefore, with a greater social pressure, with a greater willingness to integrate the new ones. This change of circumstances can justify a new law on the Catalan communities, in this we agree, we do not deny it; moreover, there are technological changes, and, moreover, the current law is twenty years old, practically no one knows it and still less applies it, and neither is the current law of external action very much concerned about these communities. We may need a new law that takes on the new reality of the community abroad, but not this law, not a law to control them all, not a law to politically direct the communities abroad, but a law to help, a law to provide tools and to establish mechanisms of collaboration, not of subordination, between the communities abroad and the different departments of the Generality. Look, the big problem with this government's foreign action is that it's forgotten about the real problems of Catalans and focused on advocating the conflict, that's, in propaganda, and creating us all. During the worst economic crisis of our lives, the Generalitat reported in cooperation, in helping economic internationalization and in helping Catalans to alienate it, to speak only of those parties that we could relate to external action. But they have increased other games, and even multiplied. While the Independentist Government was retailing help to people, the assumptions were multiplying in political delegations, in Diplomat and its propaganda, in the contracting of lobbyists that no one knows what they are doing, and in the President's trips and his entourage. Still to advocate the conflict, but oblivioning a few more people, or what is worse: harming them. Because Catalans, whether we live in Catalonia or outside it, do not care about a government that transmits to the world an image of radicalism. Radicalism, the apologia of the conflict is closing doors, and closing doors means losing economic and social opportunities. This morning a deputy who is not here, a deputy of Junts per el Si; he said that – referring to the United States, but you can adapt to here – lock yourself, lock yourself in one, sublimate identity and promise magical solutions does not help, but close doors. I ask myself: are they not able to hear that with their speech they are tanking doors to the European Union? No reply when they went to Brussels, and that had never happened. Millions are spent, loads are invented, but where reasonable people go they have agenda problems. The apologia of the conflict gives a bad image of its government and does not help Catalans abroad. The vast majority of Catalans who have emigrated these past few years have done so to European Union countries. And it's not for nothing, but have they agreed that they only meet with party policies that want to break the European Union? The last trip to Finland is not a clear example. I understand they're desperate to take the picture, but the only ones who talk to you are the leaders of those parties that would take away the Catalans from their countries. This morning, the president, giving the Americans lessons for Twitter, but have they looked at the Mirall? They come from the hands of radicals, and that's why they scare the respectable people. They come from the hands of radicals and act like radicals. For example, when this Parliament diminishes the sovereignty of the French by adopting motions in favour of the self-determination of Northern Catalonia. I don't know if the world looks at them, but, if they look at them, what they see isn't very nice. What do you have to think about the català you see in France..., or the català you see in Finland – let's put this example –, the català you see in Finland, when you take the picture with the parties, with the policies that are anti-Europe and anti-immigration, those parties that would make you outside Finland? What must the President of the French Republic think of Catalans when you stand against the unit of France? What public diploma is this? What do Catalans who see France think when they see that the Generality is in the hands of those who believe the flags of France and the European Union? What public diploma is this? Do they really think going from the hand of those who create flags of other democracies or taking pictures with anti-European leaders helps the Catalan communities abroad? It seems to me that Catalans on the outside already have enough work to do, not close to them cleaning up the government's stuff. Finally, currently one of the main tasks of these communities abroad is to help integrate those people who have arrived in a new country. This integration is positive and necessary for the people who live there, but also for what we are here for, because the Catalans integrated in other countries are the best bridge between economies and societies. Not only from the strictly economic point of view, but also from the cultural point of view. External communities exercise a very important cross-cultural platform pocket. And, therefore, from the People's Party, we believe that this law should have been planted in another way: it should have been placed in the service of the communities of Catalans living abroad. I said before that in the past few years the Government of the Generality has erred in the priorities of foreign action; it has spent in lobbying, other cargoes, trips and has forgotten about people and their problems. I think these priorities need to be reversed. And if the thought of totality doesn't prosper, we'll work on the question, we'll work bravely, to change the meaning of the law and put it to the service of the communities. There are other models, Mr. Counselor, models much better. Look, there's no community I've been dedicating so much resources to their people to alienate him with Galícia. More than a million Welsh people live in other countries, but the Welsh government does not use them for national construction, as you say at the motius exhibition of this bill. The government has made itself available to emigrants, because the government of the People's Party knows that helping those who have left is also a way to help those who have remained, because people who live in other countries are a very important act, build bridges, facilitate negotiations, acquire knowledge and enrich our culture. Communities with Galicia are helped by people, people with great social or health problems; young people living abroad, with scholarships, or those who need them, with help to deal with problems of precariousness or subsistence. In change, here is the reverse; here, the people to the service of political power. Mirin, they were divided years– divided years–, with the current Law of Communities, without making the registry provided for this, and 2014 woke up, oh by chance, weeks before the fake 9-N reference, and they put the registry out of bounds. Now it's three-quarters of the same: during the toughest economic crisis of our lives, Catalans have forgotten about the outside, but now they want to repeat the Artur Mas screen, repeat a 9-N bis, and they wake up again, think again about Catalans to foreign and think again about the register. The register, which could be a tool to help, wants to convert it into a tool to control and to make illegal references to rupture. And don't get bogged down. The last Ple the CUP presented a motion, approved for Junts for the Yes, where it was made clear that the Catalan Register was being placed on the outside and that same law was being applied to the service of a partyist and radical cause. Look, the populars are here because we want Catalans abroad to be free from the temptations of this government; they have to be able to help the generality, and as much as they do, more than now, but this help must not be conditional on political criteria, the communities must not be controlled or politically directed. I'll give you an example. Two years ago, representatives of Catalan associations abroad said publicly that Mr. Homs had demanded support for the government's political line and that they would donate it there, only missing it. I am not making this up; this can be found in the actions of the External Action Commission, April 2014. Days later, in private, to some members of other communities abroad I took up this subject; they said to me: "Well, publicly we have said this; you know how things went. As we know, the Catalans, as things have been, how things have been in Catalonia the past few years, how the process has worked; we already know how this independent government works, but the sensible majority of Catalans do not want a society trapped by the tentacles of political power, tentacles that are coming too far. And things don't change. Recently you, Mr. Romeva, presided over a meeting in Argentina of the communities..., of some Catalan communities. They have explained many things to us about what was said there and it was done, but only to see the note published for the Generality to understand that the problems of the people who have had to leave matter to this government a little bit. He went to demand that they be spokespersons of the Independentist Government to their countries. It is not to be stored; literally he said – obro cometes – : « Catalans to foreigner participate in the entremat – the entremat – « of the external action of the Generalitat. This is the political conception of this government; a political conception, of course, that thanks to God, is currently losing much strength in South America. In short, for the Independentist Government, people are fishes from the entrail of political power. And that's very clear, too, with this bill of law. For this reason, the People's Party presents a message to the totality, because we want Catalans outside to be no one's piece, but to be free to contribute to what they want to bring to Catalonia and to the help they deserve without having to laugh at the political graces. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.127.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. To fix his position, Mr Ferran Pedret of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.128.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... I also greet the rest of the people who accompany us from the public or who may be following this debate for any of the media offered by Parliament. We come here to debate the draft law from the Catalan community to the outside, which we can certainly understand as ultimately a mandate of Article 13 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. There was certainly before, as mentioned, Law 18/96 on relations with the Catalan communities abroad, which had a different focus from the draft law we are examining today, which, as the Councillor has explained, tries to broaden the focus not only to the organizations of Catalans residing outside Catalonia, but also to address more directly all and each of the people with the political condition of Catalans who are not in Catalonia. Also..., I mention the general mark, even though I have not exhausted it, we also have the Law 25/2002, of 25 November, of support measures for the return of the migrating Catalans and their descendants, which seems to me also of great transcendence and which, surely, should take part in the debate. Mirin, we can share some of the arguments put forward for MP Beltrán, from Ciutadans, in his presentation, not all of them, but some yes, and certainly less of the arguments put forward for MP Milián, from the PP, with this conception of the law, therefore, as if it were the Unique Ring of what Tolkien spoke of in his fantasistic works. I don't know if the same text can actually be translated into this control will. It's true, for what it does to the question of the Catalan Foreign Resident Register, that maybe it's one of the aspects in which it's put more emphasis on the bill, also everywhere it hangs, huh? , for all the services and access to the Administration's services..., it is certain that from all this we began to feel intensely talking with the debates of the referendum on the Law of popular consultations not referendums and other means of citizen participation. It's true and it's undeniable, and, in fact, it's true that with the CUP motion of the other day it was coming out enough in this sense. Tanmateix – I don't know if it's going to be worth the admonition I'm going to do, because it didn't work in the case of the Law of popular non-referendar consultations – I have to warn you that a register of these characteristics won't be able to serve as an electoral census in any case, huh? So, I don't know what the government's political intention is, even though I can sense it, because it doesn't make it clear, but in any case it won't be able to serve the effects of an election, because it's not, it's another thing, it's a voluntary registry that, in any case – and this is one of the considerations we want to make, counselor – you say that it will require a pre-registration in this registry to access certain services and services of the Generality. There were some considerations here that made them the CTESC, respect to leave written in the same text of the law the free character and public management of this register, which we would seem to answer and which we, in the process of papers, hope to be able to answer. And I also said that if the interest is to guarantee Catalans and Catalans who do not reside in Catalonia, who reside outside the State, access to certain services and services of the Government of Catalonia, it would be necessary to contemplate mechanisms of collaboration, integration with other tools available to the State, of which Spain, so that it can actually reach the entire assembly of the Catalan population that is outside the State. I refer here... – I had also made some observation in this sense of the same Catalan communities abroad – I refer, therefore, for example, to collaborations with the National Institute of Statistics; but, let's say, we could find others. I make a point here, because it also came out in one of the previous interventions. It is curious to observe some of the periphrases that they make – not so alone in the presentation of motius, that it could be more understandable, but also in the same text of the law – so that we never have to go through the Spanish norm: neither by the Constitution, nor by the laws that there may be, let us say it. I already know that the Catalan government, with its current composition, has the intention that it has, but they do not fail to exist these norms. And in this sense there were also some observations to the law coming from the Catalan communities abroad that insisted on some rights that some of these Spanish laws give them, and, well, the answer you have given them has been to refuse that mention. Let's say, there might be questions of legislative technique for doing the remission to concrete laws, quoting them, etc., but in some cases it would be reasonable, instead of doing all the periphrasis they do to avoid passing through Spain, so, quoting what is an existing reality. But, go, in any case, give him that for what he does to the Registry of Catalans residing abroad and to our willingness to obey some of the petitions of the communities and the CTESC. After you talk about a question that seems to me appropriate but that we would like to prove in practice, that is the integration of the specificities, of the specific needs, also, of the Catalans residing outside the State in the conjunction of the Catalan public policies. I don't know if we've always been fond of this issue, the current government, but probably previous governments as well. We'll have to be careful in the future if that's really what it is. And why should we therefore say that we have found ourselves missing the law, beyond the creation or reform of certain participation bodies, clearer mechanisms, perhaps more direct, of participation of Catalan communities abroad in the formation of public policies, and perhaps also in the legislative process here in Catalonia. We should look for a way to encourage this participation. I also found it interesting that you talk about the virtual Catalan communities; they talk about new forms of organization, about the people who left in the last few years abroad. It is true that the communities that traditionally existed had to meet new needs and are doing a work worthy of praise. Also, keep in mind – even though it is not object of the law, but of other discussions – perhaps not with all the economic and technical support that the government could lend, considering that sometimes these organizations have been able to see overtaken by the phenomenon of migration, right? , for the issue of migrants from Catalonia, which was not so, let's say, at least with the volumes we have known, therefore, seven or eight years ago. I mean, this question of virtual communities, it seems to me that it's predicted, but I'm very afraid that the organization of these new Catalan outsources tends to be more self-managed and spontaneous, and it seems hard to see that they suddenly integrate into structures planned from law and from government, and in turn we should see how we establish forms of collaboration with what spontaneously arises. That's the question I was asking her. I must also say that, respecting the question of the rights of Catalans to the outside, that there is a whole article that talks about it, it also seems important to us to take into account the collaboration, the complementarity with all those rights, with those services that are provided from the State. Especially in the subjects, let's say, polite, we would like to see how there is also a collaboration..., and, this, you could say to me: "Tell it to the Spanish Government. Yes, of course, we can also say that, but I would like to see a collaboration of the Government of the State in..., well, exercising what the Constitution and laws require, which is the promotion of multilingualism, etc.; therefore, exercising a collaboration with the Government of Catalonia in this sense. I also have to say that on different occasions you make a series of referrals to the Rules that are very, very generic in character, perhaps without completing at least a few minimum requirements in the same law. And so did the CTESC, and it seems to me that it would be worthy to meet them. In the same way – and I've just finished right now, because time is running out – we agree with the alarm that fans respect the mentions to the department that will be competent. I mean, in some places we're talking about what we're dealing with in migration, in other places we're talking about what we're dealing with in external action, and sometimes we can have some problem saving who we need to act on every occasion. And that I think we'll have a chance to work on during the legislative process. And, I'm telling you, with the warning that I had made before, but I do at the end, that things that are legal through this law will be able to serve as a source for later organizing a reference claim that things that you have here are actually an electoral cents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.129.0	Thank you, Congressman. The words of Mr Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.130.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, MPs and MPs, Councillors, today, November 9, 264.034 Catalans and Catalans are watching us. Perhaps not all of these 264,000 are now on the computer screen seeing this full debate, but I'm sure there are a few and a few that are pending this debate. Ho fan des Sydney, des Berlin, des Paris, des London, and perhaps also des New York, wondering what happened in that country. But they're not hanging because today we're talking about them and we're talking about them, and we need to be on top of their expectations. One hundred and twenty-seven Catalan foreign communities, according to the data of the International Federation of Catalan Entities abroad; forty-one countries where there are Catalans and Catalans, and remember that between the year 2008 and the year 2015, 120,032 Catalans and Catalans have had to leave Catalonia. Many of them and many of them did not want to leave, but the policies of the governments, the Government of Catalonia and the Government of the State, forced them to flee their land, possibly looking for work and looking for better prospects. I don't want to forget about the 458,000 Catalans who live in the rest of the State, who aren't foreign, who are in the rest of the Spanish State. It's important to us too, but it's not the same, and so it's different things that we have to take into account but that we have to manage and regulate differently and appropriately. The question we have to ask you is: do you have a new law from the Catalan community to the outside, yes or no? The one we have to do, because today we are discussing issues in totality. I have to say that the interventions of the Ciutadans and the People's Party, which, as always, are full of prejudices. Because many of the things you say, I'm sure they think of them, but don't tell them the law. You may think that the government might want to interpret it that way; but, of course, here we don't come to judge by intentions, we come to vote for you. And we'll create a pose and we'll debate issues and vote issues. And at the end of the discussion there will be a text, which will say what it says. And, like all the laws, because this happened to the PP in Spain and it happened or will possibly happen to Citizens, governments later do more and less. But here we discuss a law. And the people we're not independent, like us, this law doesn't concern us, if anyone can think that this is a new structure of the independence offensive, because the text isn't. It's a law that takes care of Catalans and Catalans who live abroad, who do need more help from the government of our country. So, to make this clear. And clearly I want to remind you that Law 18/96 and its subsequent regulation, but especially the law, was approved unanimously by the Parliament of Catalonia, and this unanimity should be the hope, because these 264,000 Catalans and Catalans do not agree with our squatters between those who are independent and those who are not; they need a legal text and a care and a service that the Government of this country lends to them. And that's what we need to discuss in this text clearly. And, therefore, our group has not submitted a statement to the totality, because you believe that the text that the Government has submitted is a valid text for working. Now, let's go on a ponence and do some tests. And here, I'm sure, therefore, that in some of us voting with the government and in others, no. And we'll finally have a text. Therefore, we have not presented a statement to the totality. Article 13 of the State of Autonomy, which, like Article 7.2, regulates the Catalan external communities of the 2006 State, says: "The Generality must promote the social, economic and cultural links with the Catalan external community and must provide them with the necessary assistance. And concretely, Article 2 speaks of the political rights of these Catalans and Catalans and of the sons and daughters of Catalans and Catalans. Therefore, yes: the Constitution, the European Union, and also the Catalan institutions – this Parliament and the Government – because we have work to do. Obviously, our exams, where will they go? With regard to the rights, especially of these Catalans and Catalans, to strengthen the mechanisms that guarantee their rights, because they do not feel Catalans and Catalans second. And they must feel, viscose to Sydney or New York, as if viscose to Lower Llobregat or Garrotxa. Same way. Obviously, not exactly the same way, but we have to guarantee their rights. What right? Well, social rights, information, guidance, mobility, education, health care... Linguistic and cultural rights... And I took the opportunity to answer a Member of the City that when we were discussing the CUP's latest motion on the outside community, he asked me about Twitter and said, "What do you want to say about the language rights? So, I'll explain it to you, partner. You mean the Catalans who see outside, huh? They must be able to maintain the link with the official language of Catalonia that they desire, follow the Catalan or follow the castle. And, obviously, we know that the institutions of the State have perpetual mechanisms to promote the use of the castle, like the Cervantes Institute, to which we support; but sometimes we find that the Cervantes Institute or the embassies and consulates of the Spanish State do not sufficiently encourage an official language that is called català. And here Catalan institutions have to do a lot of work. If the Cervantes Institute, the Spanish embassies and the consulates promote the Catalan language, we will be happy, I can assure you; but if they do not, the Government of Catalonia must do so and must criticise that the Spanish institutions do not do so, as, I am sure, you, Mr. MP, will and will criticise the Spanish institutions that do not promote the use of an official language such as Catalan. The Catalans of Sidney, or New York, who want to speak in Catalan, and who obviously can speak English, Castle and other languages. Therefore, this is right language. We're not talking about anything else. And, therefore, I wanted to clarify. Obviously, it is clear that we also want to talk about political rights; political rights, participation and voting. And our position is clear. We agreed with the companies of the CUP, and with other groups of this chamber, saying that this of LOREG and the requested vote is great. You already know that the Spaniards and Catalans who voted from abroad had only a 30_per_cent participation index before LOREG, but after LOREG these political participation indexes fell between 80 and 90_per_cent. What do we have to do? Reform the LOREG, sense dubte. Today, our parliamentary group has presented in this chamber an electoral bill proposal for Catalonia, where, among other things, we talk about the regulation of electronic voting. And, therefore, Catalonia has a few duties to do since 1977, which is to make an electoral law for this country, for the men and women of Catalonia, which we do not have to ask for permission from anyone, the Constitutional Court or the Government of the State, we have to do with ourselves. And, therefore, we must do that too. And in this must we count, in the first line, with Catalans and Catalans living abroad. And we need to look for the formulas, through this electoral law and through the reform of the LOREG, because these Catalans and Catalans can vote massively. And obviously, when they vote 3 or 6 per cent only of these Catalans and Catalans, we have a hard political problem. And, therefore, the right to participation. Let me be clear: the Catalan and Catalan external resident register, yes, it's a tool, it's an instrument. Yeah. From our point of view, this register is not an electoral census, but the law doesn't say, this bill doesn't say it's an electoral census. And, therefore, if you find it, please, I'll get caught up in it and I'll be brought in, and I'll vote against it. But if it isn't, don't tell us they want to. And of course... I repeat, we can't judge intentions, we're doing a law debate, and we need to adjust to what's written in the law bill. Therefore, this is our position. I'm done. Obviously, they're watching us. Many of these people have left because they couldn't live here, and they need to be able to have social rights, cultural rights, linguistic rights and political rights. We're standing at the height of the communities...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.131.0	Mr. Nuet, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.132.0	... Catalans on the outside and we give them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.133.0	And a lot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.134.0	...a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.135.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms. Anna Gabriel, of the Parliamentary Group Candidate for Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.136.0	Okay. Very good morning, too, to the people who know that they are following this debate closely. And it was... partly, or part of the good part of the Catalan community abroad, they had the will that this could be approved by you unanimously, as was the one of year 96, and it would seem that it does not start with much good wishes in this sense, because whoever has presented the papers to the totality do not know if they intend to compare in ponència, to make papers or contributions; in any case, it would not seem that they have the will, neither, to approve it, would they? And I will position myself briefly in relation to the speeches that have been made to justify the considerations to the totality, which, to a great extent, I believe would sum up two questions. The use of the party that you make of the Catalan community abroad, and it seems that they are already doing well that they have a lot of difficulty voting, not just Catalans abroad, all Spaniards who reside abroad. The representative of Ciutadans said that you trust that you can change the rules in relation to the vote. The Catalan community outside also had this expectation when they met at the Congress on May 2013. They thought that for the Europeans of 2014 this would be resolved and, unfortunately, it wasn't like that. And it may well be that people who live abroad, who have had to leave, many, many, many, because of economic reasons, do not have the right to challenge the rule that has driven them out. It would seem, therefore, that as those who are foreigners do not vote, you do not want to give them rights and cover them. They must be more concerned about being able to campaign and be able to make policies for those who have a right to vote. And it's obvious that Catalans outside have it deeply restricted. Beyond that, we were also concerned, a little, about Ciutadans' intervention in relation to European citizenship and how we should link this law to European citizenship. Catalans living in foreign countries may have different nationalities, in fact, and not just European. It cost you a lot to hear what added value this law brought, to which... isn't it? , the current legal coverage can establish. So, I'd recommend that you talk to the people who see him abroad and explain to him why they claim this law and why they make some respectful proposals, or, in any case, don't just talk to some of the people who see him abroad, talk to everyone, and then you'll have a more complete view. I believe that you have the full route you have, that you may not explain it to all Catalans who live abroad, it's the Spanish language. They have a deep interest in espanyolitizing everyone, as well as those who live to alienate him. And you, as much as you speak of plurality, understand that people feel different forms and there is nothing they don't want to feel, nor will we ever feel Spanish; also the Catalans who live to alienate it. You have an obsession with the register. They're obsessed and they're living with a lot of anxiety everything you have to see with the reference. And, therefore, any instrument that serves to identify the right and right of your anguish and associate them strictly with the question of the reference. Therefore, calm down, analyze the instrument of the register beyond the question of the reference and, from here on, we may have a debate a little more serious. You also spoke that our home is La Rioja and Brussels. I don't know if I intended to do an exercise in internationalism. Obviously, our house can be what we decide: our house is Kurdistan, our house is Palestine, our house is Venice or Cuba – obviously. But that's not about international politics, that's about the right and right of Catalans who see it foreign, that's another chapter of things. And if they ever live Catalans in Mart, because you also don't know what you were talking about as an astronaut to go to space, so we might as well go to this Catalan community if there is intelligent life in Mart and, finally, they settle in it. So, no problem, we don't make distinctions in the law. For what he does to the People's Party, he justified, I believe, too... with what you conceive of how to do the policies. Policies must address those who think like you. And therefore, as you think that the Catalans residing in the foreigner are independent, we no longer have to address ourselves. In fact, it links perfectly with the philosophy that you have of criminal law, enemy criminal law. Let's apply the law according to what the other thinks, especially if it's an enemy, and not according to a universal character. I think you deserve the chapter of this is the frivolous comment about the fact that we're coming out of the crisis and we're generating work places. It seems to me, as a least, frivolous; it seems to me, as a least, irresponsible, and I don't know if you were thinking of the new configuration of the Government of the State and to whom you would give work and how the rotating doors of this extractive elite that you represent would work. But don't say, please, that jobs are being created, or that they are emerging from the crisis, because, if not, it wouldn't explain how many people need to leave this country. In relation to the apologia of the conflict. You're also obsessed with the conflict, and if there's anyone who stands out to fuel the conflict, it's you, the representatives of the People's Party, here and there. It's you who tweet, your group president is glad you're about to lynx a person because they trusted him with a CUP director. It's you from the Azores who went to bomb Iraq. It is you who are unable to give political leave to the conflict in the Basque Country. And you're trying to give lessons on what the apologia of conflict is. And I look, yes, the world looks at us, but the world is not just its world, it is not just the world of Le Pen, it is not just the world of Trump or it is not just the world of Putin. It is also the world of the indigenous, of the republic, it is also the world of the Anna Politkóvskaia or it is also the world of Leonard Peltier. Therefore, I believe that, in relation to totality reviews, little more to say. Obviously, we don't give there support, we can't give there support in any way. And, for that matter, we'll go in and debate the law. What are we gonna do about it? Because we have things to say in the articulate of the law, and now I'm going to go to the doorway. We would make statements in the sense of distinguishing between Catalans from Catalan countries, Catalans living in the Spanish State and Catalans living in the world, because we believe that, in this sense, it is not the same relationship that exists since the institution of the Generality with all this group of people. It is not the same, for us, a Catalan in Valencia that a Catalan who is establishing any South American country, for example. We will also focus on everything I want to see with support – and it has been commented, on the part of the representative of Catalonia Yes that is Pot – to the learning of Catalan language. Because there are other languages that have an extended support, they are empire languages and they are absolutely guaranteed their survival. Minority languages, no, do not have guaranteed their survival, and that is why they need additional support. We will also be talking about the electronic vote, regardless of whether we are debating today, so the entry into force of the electoral law proposal, however, regardless of whether it is being collected there, we want to talk about voting guarantees, I insist, about the people who see it alienating it. And if we have to incorporate it into this law too, for us, it won't be over. We want to discuss, therefore, all these questions with people, with Catalans who live abroad, with the plurality of Catalans who live abroad, we do not go looking for those of a single ideology or adscript, we are willing to go looking for them all. We would also like to be able to do a comparative right exercise and see how other countries have similar instruments in relation to their foreign communities, and see if we can learn anything, therefore, from mechanisms that already exist. And, therefore, we will have the opportunity, in our dealings and discussions, to delve into this law's debate. And let's give a little bit to the question he introduced in the presentation of our recently approved motion, that of the month of October. It's obvious to us that we're interested in people who see it alienated, because we, quite rightly, don't discriminate, huh? and, therefore, like any other city in this country, we are obviously concerned about what their problems and petitions are. But we also want to dig a little deeper into who are the causes of why these people leave. And it seems to us that we would do well to make a reference, as at least, nor that it is in the exposition of motius, that people, who is the economic system, political vigent that causes people to be permanently expelled from the place where they live. We need to make a special mention of the economic system that governs us, as well as being part of the European Union. And, perhaps, when we get in on the road, the new details dictated by the troika's friends have already come, and so we may still be a little more legitimized to refer to what it means to be inserted into this economic system and into this European Union, which is not just the European Union of Rights, and you would also do better to have it present. We'd work on a law that makes it possible for the people who want to come back, to come back. And that, therefore, there is a country that acquits them, not only those who have had to leave, but also those who have to come because in their countries it is absolutely impossible to live there. And, above all, and another question, and with this end, we will also work to elaborate a law that is being implemented, which is a bit of a criticism of the law of 96: good intentions, good words, good articulated, but it has not been implemented in a very high percentage. We would not like to contribute to follow legislation because it serves little. Legislature, we create an instrument that serves to deploy it, to implement it, and that effectively serves to improve the living conditions of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.137.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Lord Jordi Sendra, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.138.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor, honourable Councillors, ladies and gentlemen, today is 9-N and I cannot begin my intervention without taking advantage of the occasion to reiterate my support and the support of my group to President Mas, Vice-President Ortega and Councillor Rigau, to Councillor Homs, accused to put the ballots in Catalonia a 9-N of 2014, and also my support and that of my group to those who, as a result of the 9 November 2015 declaration of 9 November 2015, are also persecuted for justice. President, members of the Bureau, goes for you. You're starting to... [[some applause]] , today is the beginning of the parliamentary process of the draft law of the external Catalonia, a time that has been prepared for the government and presented in this Parliament for the Councillor of Foreign Affairs, Raül Romeva. External Catalonia is a concept, as he said, that adds the Catalans residing abroad and the entities in which these are organized, as is stated in the explanatory statement. Historically, the presence of Catalans in the world and the organized presence of these has been very remarkable, especially in the later centuries, beginning with the first Catalan entities, as said the exposition of motius, in Havana and in Buenos Aires, all of them bastides for Catalans who emigrated to the 19th century, basically by economic reasons, and following with those Catalans who fled from Francoist repression, as I said in my intervention of the past plenary in arguing our support for the reason of the intervention of the CUP - Cree Constituent; Catalans who were paid with exile for their defence of the rights and freedoms of Catalonia and not to buy our support for the reason for the intervention of the CUP - Cree Constituent; Catalans who were paid with exile for their own defence of the rights and freedoms of Catalonia, and who could not be used as a dictatorial regime, and who were able to take the new reality of the world. The Member of Parliament said: "It is that you should have presented this law when there was a crisis; now it creates occupation, now we are not going out. Listen, probably a lot of people in Catalonia have had to leave for the effects of the crisis, but if you know – and you know – Catalonia is a country that looks..., you know "our world is the world?" Catalonia has always looked to the outside and always thought about the internationalization of its enterprises. This has also caused many citizens to go with their businesses abroad. Not everyone has gone for lack of work... but to work in the internationalization of Catalan companies abroad. These citizens – not all of them, however – have come together in the entities that today we call the Catalan community externally. These entities complete a phone book at the time of projecting Catalonia to the world: they give to know the country and Catalan culture and language. Moreover, the Catalan community abroad contributes to the creation of an associated fabric in the area where it is established, and with the activities that it organizes and the relationships that it establishes, it exercises civil diffusers from Catalonia from all walks of life: cultural, political, economic, professional, academic and social. Also, obviously, and in the words of Councilman Romeva, they are the best diploma to explain to the world the moment he sees the country, who are the Catalans, where we come and where we want to go. For this reason, the Government of Catalonia, since the restoration of democracy, has maintained an absolute commitment to these collectivities, and in this sense approved the year 96 Law 18/96, of relations with the Catalan communities abroad, in force today. This law regulated how the government is related to external Catalonia. But from now on, twenty years ago, many things have changed in our home; many things have changed in Catalonia. This has made much of this 96 law obsolete and partially overtaken by other standards, such as the Law on External Action and Relations with the European Union, the same approval of the 2006 Statute or the fact that we live in a world where information and communication technologies are present, very present, in our daily life. The reality and needs of Catalans to the world have changed, and we must adapt it to Catalan law. The more we think it necessary to regulate not only Catalonia's relationship with its external entities, but also with the citizens individually. This new law links more rights and rights to those Catalan citizens and guarantees them access to the service under the same conditions as the citizens residing in Catalonia. It also improves the tools of dialogue with our Catalan community around the world. And, as the Councillor said, we cannot escape the repeated demand of Catalan civil society to modernize the model of relationship between Catalonia and its children to foreign and establish a new framework of individual and collective relationship. For this reason, today we begin a debate that will be occupied by our own months and that Together for the Yes we consider absolutely necessary. In this debate we will address the relations between the Government and the outside Catalonia; the right to which the Catalans residing abroad are subject and which adds to the rest of the rights recognized for the existing legal order; we will look at the comprehensive approach of the fact of migrants speaking out of the way, living and returning from those citizens; we will also talk about the various ways in which these Catalans organize their lives outside the country and how the Government of Catalonia should relate to them; we will talk about the vote of the Catalans abroad, about the extreme difficulty they have today to vote – it cannot be that they lose their votes in Rome, it cannot be that they lose their votes in Rome – ; we will talk about language learning; we will talk about the register – we will talk about the register. Mrs. Susana Beltrán, you were born to divide and continue to divide. When you talk about the register, it's dividing. What does that mean? : "Do you think there will be anyone who is not a party to the process? Why don't you point it in this register? Any Catalan city outside should be pointed out, whether it is independent or not. It's you that they'd like to think..., they'd like this register to be exclusively for the independent citizens of Catalonia. Listen'm, no. You were born to divide and continue to divide. Hey, I'll tell him he made me... he got a smile when he talked about the astronaut he wanted to go to space. Listen, if he knows that I'm waiting for him, because, according to the rulings and designs of the People's Party government, we're probably all in outer space. [[Rialles.]] So, tell him, please, I hope, that we will find ourselves there. He wanted us to talk about a lot of things, talk about easy things, talk about difficult things, talk about complicated things to solve, but we'll try to do it with a wide range of sights and a vision of the future. It will be very productive and interesting to listen to all those who want to give their opinion, especially those directly affected by this law. It is the will of my parliamentary group, of Juntes per el Si, to make a very open debate in society to copy and, to the extent possible, to collect the needs of external Catalonia and to obtain a law with the maximum consensus. It is in this last feeling that I have been spared that both the People's Party and Ciutadans have presented a message to the totality. They thought they were well aware of the reality of outer Catalonia, and I'm sure they don't, from the start, that we have a serious and rigorous debate about how to improve these relations with our fellow citizens living outside Catalonia. Doesn't it worry them that Catalans outside of Catalonia are so hard to vote? Don't you worry about them? He said to the deputy of the PP: "Listen, I want the citizens from outside, from outside, to be free from the tentacles of this government. Look, I want the citizens of outer Catalonia to be as free as the citizens of Catalonia. What happens, that if we don't improve the voting system we'll be preventing them from exercising a phone book that has any city in Catalonia. They demand that the anti-procedure bankruptcy, the anti-independence bankruptcy, the one that makes them see fantasies all over the place and that, without any doubt, is the reason for the presentation of these items to the totality. They ask them to join a necessary debate. Most of this Parliament will now vote against the totality items, and you will want, and you will have all the right to do so, to participate in the ensuing debate of this bill. They encourage them to do so from the moral authority to have given support to their processing from the beginning. There is no point to those citizens, to those 600,000 citizens given by Congressman Nuet, the 600,000 citizens who live outside Catalonia, of all the reasons of the world, who today are looking at us; they are looking at us and I believe that you should not be against them. And today it will be approved to reject these items in totality and to throw forward the processing of this project, because, if it were not so, it would be the third time that the Government of Catalonia has to approve a bill of law from the outside community, and that is unthinkable and would generate much frustration in these Catalans. Therefore, please ask them to vote against, all groups, from exams to totality. And, taking advantage of the thirty-five seconds that remain, I will be allowed by the president to speak not of the external Catalonia, but of the interior Catalonia; let's say that, like Tarragoni, despite the government of the State, despite the government of the municipal Drets of Tarragona, I cannot finish more than visca Tarragona. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.139.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now we're calling for a vote. Mrs Beltrán, why ask me the word? [[You're looking for the bottom and the rialles.]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.140.0	Thirty_seconds to respond briefly to the deputy of Junts for the Yes and the deputy of the CUP. When I referred to our home, what I wanted to say is that the European Union is a political and legal space where Catalans have reinforced rights, and what needs to be done is to claim that this, so we have to keep it and we don't have to stay, we don't have to get out. Therefore, I believe that we must give this law a fall: there is Catalonia or it is an inner space, and it is not Catalonia to the outside or Catalan communities to the outside. And, effectively, we talk to everyone about the problems of the Catalan communities abroad, and that's why we were in the Council of Catalan Communities abroad, and we want this law to be a law that can take care of the different sensitivities of all Catalans who are abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.141.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.142.0	In contradiction, Madam President. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.143.0	Clearly, however, Mr. Carrizosa – we have been commenting on this – you have not spoken. Therefore, in any case, because of contradictions, I should be the Member who has spoken, who, moreover, has already spoken.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.144.0	Well, in that case, by allusions, since it's alluded directly to our group when it's said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.145.0	But it's the lady...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.146.0	...that we share...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.147.0	... Beltran has already given him..., he has already made allusions. Mr. Carrizosa, it can't be. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You know very well, Mr. Carrizosa, that it cannot be; you know that. Well, let's proceed to the vote. We will vote on the two issues together. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 34 votes to 97, with 1 abstention. As they have been rejected, the law of the Catalan community on the outside continues its processing. [[Decree Ill 5/2016, of 11 October, of the recovery of the extraordinary and additional payment of the month of December 2012 for the staff of the bodies of the Administration of Justice in Catalonia]] [[203-00006/11]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is: debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 5/2016, of the October 11th, of the recovery of the extraordinary and additional pay of the month of December 2012 for the staff of the units of the Administration of Justice in Catalonia. In accordance with Article 155.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justice, presents this decree to the law. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence, because we must continue with the session. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, I'm dying. [[Pause.]] Counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.148.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. The validation, the validation of this decree responds to the agreement that three weeks ago the Government of Catalonia took with the aim of giving an answer as quickly and effectively as possible to a right, to a right pending that the workers of the Administration of Justice, to be able to recover the extraordinary payment..., to be able to recover 100_percent of the extraordinary payment corresponding to the year 2012. This was a pending assignment that, of course, this whole chamber and the government would have liked to have been able to attend before. Certainly, the economic difficulties have prevented it. But, despite this, it is obvious that all the effort we have to focus on trying to reverse those details that the economic crisis ended up imposing in some areas, and that imposition also ended up having its effect on the workers of the Administration of Justice. Therefore, it was a duet pending, a duet that we were able to complete this year 2016 and that we were able to complete it by putting it as fast as possible. In the months before the Department of Justice we have been able to articulate the form of doing so and we have been able to look for the proper premise – and I think that this is worth underlining – those parties that, in an attempt to implement the 100_percent of our assumption, we could make available this purpose, and we did not ask the Department of Economy for an extraordinary contribution, if it is important, and so I wanted to make it known, to the Department of Economy and also to the Department of Government, where they correspond to it in the field of public service, the absolute arrangement and support and collaboration to make possible the adoption of this agreement. And it's also true, and I think it's important to sub-rate it, that with the approval of this decree you and today, if that's what you decide, with your validation, we also compliment the resolution of this Parliament that was just urging the government to do this and to do it as quickly as possible. Therefore, I do want to put it in value..., despite the fact that everyone – the Government too – would have liked this solution, first, it should never have been produced, and second, that if it had to be produced, it could have been solved and repaired more punctually. The good news is that at the end of this month of November, this same month of November, at the end of November, with the current month's payroll, the 7,628 workers of the Justice Administration who have a right, incorporated in the November's payroll, which was missing to complete the cent_per_cent of the extraordinary payment of the year 2012. This will allow, depending on the category and the place of work occupied by these 7,628 workers of the Administration of Justice, to recover between 1,170 and 1,691 euros that remained to be satisfied. And also with this decree we do another thing, which is to definitively close this folder, because the government also lays down in the decree the authorization to give up the legal remedies that were on the way, and so we find a topic pending and let the details of the year 2012, as I am not convinced, is the desire of this whole chamber and of the assembly of the citizenry. And I'm endorsing not only the support we expect from the government in validating this decree, but I'm especially endorsing the workers of the Administration of Justice for the generosity that they have had in assuming this unjust statement, this non-volunteer statement, this unintended statement, and therefore, later than everyone would like, we can put together and end the 2012 decree in the context of the Administration of Justice, and I'm sure that this fact that you will know will deserve two things: it will certainly deserve the validation of this decree, and I believe that, taking into account that the object of the decree will be able to carry it out in the name of this same month of November, it will pass through an import of the 9th. For all this, he asks them on behalf of the government to have the sensitivities to be able to validate this decree and close this folder, and to put it, in this way, to the details of the year 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.149.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. To fix his position, Ms. Carmen de Rivera, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.150.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, deputies, deputies, the bill presented to us by the Government for ratification, on the proposal of the Councillor of Justice and the Councillor of Economy, proposes the approval of the refund up to the total amount of the extraordinary payment of December 2012 to the officials of Justice and interims who provide their services in Catalonia. And the first thing to say, and so it was made known by our spokesman in Justice to the councillor, is that, in fact, it is good news; what happens, councillor, which is a pity – it is a pity – that it comes so late and, in some aspects of the decree, also bad. Because... now I'm going to say it. First, in some respects... You have recognized it: we are in 2016, we are talking about the 2012 pay; that is, three years and eleven months later than it should have been. That this return comes after, for not paying this, which had to be returned a long time ago, you forced the officials to go to the courts to claim this right. That's how they did it. And in 2014 many sentences, most of them all, gave full reason to the officials who claimed the return, and then – and this is another important point – six_ thousand requests for extension of sentence. That is to say, as they saw the null willingness to pay, six thousand officials asked for the extension of these sentences from those who had taken him to court. All this, of course, in addition to expenses, time and disgusts, because nobody likes to go to court, caused the collapse of several courts of the contentious-administrative jurisdiction. Meanwhile, the council has been maintaining a series..., which I understand is not a correct practice, which is systematically resorting, when there was a roundness in the sentences, until reaching the Supreme. And now he tells us to give up this resource, logically, because you have reached an agreement, but I, counselor, have not seen in the decree that it is specifically qualified to give up, but that what I have seen and what I know, that you have communicated to me, is that you have given up; and more valuable, because, if not, you would have condemned them to interests and possibly to the coast. It's also wrong, because it's a right, this 2012 extra pay, which many of the compañeros who provide their services in the rest of Spain in the courts had already paid for it long ago. And finally, the 2013 and 2014 pay is still outstanding. And not to mention that public officials or this group of public servants, as I like to call it, because the interims also come in, have seen that by the government's detail of these years its purchasing power has been reduced by more than 20_per_cent. And then, finally and finally, I want to refer to a specific aspect of this draft decree, which is the actual payment of these amounts. While the officials will be admitted without further delay, and this is what the decree establishes, as you have said, this pay, 75_per_cent of the remaining pay, you give ten_days for those people who are no longer in the administration or who are in other administrations, or simply for those who are in charge, because there may be people who have died in this interim, and it turns out that from the council they are given a deadline in this decree ten_days since the publication, so we find that if there is someone on television who is watching this, that the 2012 pay is no longer in time, because the decree establishes since the publication, and this was published on October 14. If not, I will be glad, and I believe that, if not, you should reflect. Therefore, as you see, this decree not only comes late, but it again puts some very difficult to charge the 2012 Christmas pay. That's why we told him, counselor, "well, but scratching. Good, because there is a bitter taste left, because we are in 2016, because there has been a long judicial battle and because the conditions of return for those who are no longer in the service of the Administration are not fair, because they make it very difficult. Although, obviously, and because it is good news, as we have said, and because these people have been waiting a long time to collect this, we will vote in favour of the validation of the decree being requested. Nothing more, President, Councillor, Members, Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.151.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The words "Mrs. Rosa Maria Ibarra", of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.152.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, bring us to validation the Decree of 11 October of recovery of the extraordinary and additional payment of the month of December 2012 for the personnel of the bodies of the Administration of Justice of Catalonia. This decree has behind it a history that makes sense that justice personnel are regulated in the Judiciary's Organic Law. This fact was passed by the PP government when the Royal Decree passed the law of measures to guarantee the presupposition and promotion of competitiveness, for which the extraordinary payment was abolished, as well as the additional payment of the specific supplement or equivalent. When they were told that this decree could not affect the regular staff for an organic law, they urged the modification of this one, but it was too late – because that was the December 2012 – because the extra pay was already worth between June 1st and November 30th. This fact has given place to numerous demands from workers and workers, meaning that the restrictive standards of rights cannot have retroactive effects. In fact, just to mention one thing, the judgment of the Administrative Court No. 17 of Barcelona, which refers to repeated judgments of the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court, speaks precisely that the remuneration of officials may be limited, reduced or frozen by law, but not with retroactive character, as the latter of the acquired rights acts here. In this sense, the Ministry of Justice and the autonomous communities with competitions are obliged – therefore, Catalonia too – to return the extra payment abolished in December 2012. Therefore, it has been four years, four years of complaints and judicial resolutions in favour of workers and workers, until they reach approval by the Government of the Government of the Government of the Republic of Lithuania of the decree which they wish to present to us for validation. It can be said that they were not touched by more than passing this decree; as you would say with a terminology that they used often, or paid or paid. In fact, we could think that the workers of the field of justice could have been included already in Decree Llei 4/2016, for the recovery of the extraordinary and additional payment of the month of December 2012 of the public sector staff. But curiously these staff are excluded from the scope of application of that decree by remaining excluded from Article 23 of the third title of the Law of Presumptions. In fact, we are curious about this fact, but we are still more curious about the contradiction, in this sense, of what the Directorate General of the Civil Service and the Directorate General of Presumptives say, which they understand that the staff of the Administration of Justice was also affected by that Decree 4/2016, contrary to what the Directorate General of Relations with the Administration of Justice says. As it is, this fact, that of paying the extra pay in one way to some employees and to others, is causing discomfort to the different sectors of public administration, in the sense that it is creating difficulties compared between some public workers and others. To those of justice the totality of the import of this extra payment is paid, as the counselor said, on the November payroll, and to the other workers this payment will be done. In any case, we will vote in favour of this validation, as it could not otherwise be, but we want to make it come true, counselor, as far as we are concerned – as it is – that you are no longer aware, because we have not spoken on different occasions, the discomfort of the staff of the Administration of Justice in other matters, beyond what we are dealing with today. Let's talk about interinatge, we're talking about the restructuring or, we could say, the elimination of places from the Administration of Justice, the co-location of the Vido courts, the functioning of the judicial office, the non-functioning of the information applications that the staff of the Administration of Justice must use... A lot of work still to be done. Therefore, today we take a first step to return to the collection a right from which it was deprived, but much remains to be done. Let us hope that in this task, this Government, and especially, Councillor, will seek the dialogue and consensus with the workers and their representatives. Many thanks, president, councillor, deputies and deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.153.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next is the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.154.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, first place, begin by giving support to the validation of this decree, as it could not be otherwise, because it returns to the staff dependent on the Administration of Justice of Catalonia the remaining part of an extraordinary payment that would never have been used by the governments to adjust the accounts, with the double sense that it can have this word, and that, in any case, it has been time for it to be returned; as well as it should have been returned – also – all payments to the rest of the functioning dependent on the Generality, and here there is a union agreement to make it in terms. And, therefore, the only thing we can say here is that these terms are religiously fulfilled and that the negotiation of what has not yet taken place is concrete. Therefore, we must congratulate ourselves on having this return before the end of the year, and since the opposition this could be a good time to make it easier..., not to, to congratulate, also, the Government on our part for having found these 9.6 million euros, to return this middle of 1,200 euros to each of the 7,600 and you will run out of office. It would be a good time to congratulate him, but we won't do it, we can't do it – or we don't want to do it, as usual – because we don't seem to have had a model behavior towards you all this time. As has been said, Justice officials belong to a state body managed by the Generality and, while the money comes from the Generality's arks, the standard mark corresponds to the General Council of the Judiciary of the State and, therefore, should have returned before, just as it was done with other State-dependent officials. And for this very reason they sometimes surprise some statements that I read to the press, theirs, saying that it was unfair – they surprise and they are to aggravate – the suppression of the remuneration that the Madrid government did. It was, and it is, what happens is that you say it like you're not with you. I can hear it, a little, for a phrase that he said: "The economic crisis ended by detailing the salaries of the civil service. He said it now, a while ago, more or less, huh? The economic crisis does not, the governments of return, who are the same ones who have approved labor reforms, who have laminated the wages of workers, who have laminated the working conditions while certain heads of society have become rich. The economic crisis is not the cause of this, the policies of the governments are the ones that have decided to retail here and not on another side. Therefore, I insist, it is as if this detail did not happen with you, with the Government of the Generality. And they're surprised that if she didn't come back earlier, it's because the generality has been pleading until now not to. And I also want to remind you that the Government of the Generalitat, not yours, but the previous ones, were among the first to retail, and that it will surely be of the last to return the money to the functioning of the Administration, as is the case. And that we still have pending the collection periods of the remainder of you working that are propitious to the Generality, the pay for 2012, and for 2013, and for 2014. Therefore, unfortunately the Government of Madrid and badly the Government of Barcelona. Here seems a sad contest of the best details for its functioning. Anyway, it's a happy day. Welcome back, then, huh? Now, I insist, if it's done with a law decree and it's paid this November, it's not to make Nadal happy when you're going to work and work, it's because this collection, as it was said here, has won, through the courts, feelings that say that this detail was badly done and had to be returned. How long ago, huh? It's been more than a year, huh? It's almost two. And how long ago did they keep the resources to delay this payment? Until now. The dismissal of the cassation appeal before the Supreme Court of the first sentence of jutjat 17, which has also been discussed here, is last month, counselor. So until last month, you don't give up. And as you make a flag of "that we're good and that we hurt others, so I want, and I know hard, but I can't congratulate them, because if we pay now it's because justice has claimed it and not the rest of it. Surely – surely – it would have been better – and we would have sincerely preferred, in this and in any other case – the value of collective bargaining, which you practice little, sometimes, before the judicialization of labor relations – sure. In a normal country that would be this way. If I should be serious, you say that when we remain independent this will be so different. And I'm saying it for now, with intact skills to be able to do it, there's no such thing as a difference and, more importantly, we're almost the worst in the class. Therefore, you will understand our malaise from the words of a better future when you can make a better present and not do it. But, finally, this is another theme, today it's time to be glad that, even though it's late, you're doing a bit of justice to the house of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.155.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mrs. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.156.0	Deputies, deputies, councillors, say that behind a joy there is always a concern, and that's exactly what we thought and what we thought when we saw this decree law, among other things because when the councillor told us personally that they were going to return the extra pay to the officials of justice, that which had already been retained for years and extended to them over the years after, because, initially, the truth is that we are happy, right? And we are glad because in the end all those officials who have been practically hostages and have suffered the cynicism of this Government, who, while devoting and increasing expenses for, for example, external action, for an external action that was dedicated to defaming Spain and trying to obtain political adherence to the independence process, which seems to be failing, and when you have devoted and distracted resources fundamentally to generating and creating state structures, for you, public officials, especially those who are part of the core of the welfare state, which among them are also those of justice, had several extra wages taken away plus a reduction of 5_per_cent of your salary. And that is what has happened, which in the end you have politically prioritized feeding the bulimic machine of independence and leaving social services and public services almost in a state of starvation. In the end you managed to turn the public officials of Catalonia almost into hostages of those policies that prioritized the homeland over the people and the public services that affect the vast majority of the citizens of Catalonia. And that is very well understood when – some colleagues have told you – you look back and you analyze why we are here with this validation of this decree. For we are here because it is true, yes, yes, the Government of Spain issued a decree of budgetary stability by which, therefore, it was necessary to withdraw that extra payment to the officials and that extra payment to the officials in 2013 had to be withdrawn with retroactive effect to 2012. But nothing was said, absolutely nothing was said either of 2013 or 2014. But you, who have a very extensive practice in that, twisted as much as possible that real decree of budgetary stability and extended it to 2013 and 2014, reaching the maximum rates of retort with the dictate of an agreement, the 33/2015 agreement, where they also extended a reduction of 5_per_cent wage practically sine die, and which finally arrives the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, takes a magnificent picture of that sentence to the Government and tells it that it has not only a cynical character, but has also dictated an agreement on fraud of law – a government dictating an agreement on fraud of law. And, therefore, it is true that we could congratulate you as a counselor on this approval of this..., or this possible validation of decree, but we will not do so, because at the end of the day the congratulations have been, fundamentally, to the trade unions and the workers in the sector, who, despite being condemned to judicial pilgrimage until almost two months ago, have obtained in a multitude of sentences that are recognized to them their rights. Moreover, they should take a photograph of their Government so that it can be shown that many of the measures that have little to do with what is available or not on a budget, but with a very clear intention of prioritizing other things ahead of stability, security and quality in the work of public officials in Catalonia. And, therefore, as some speakers have repeated before, we are here not because you are gifted, neither great, nor magnificent, but because you have been forced to do so. They have been forced to do so through the workers, through the trade unions and yes, also through the opposition parties, because when you, the Councillor, made your explanation, you were also referring to proposals that have been approved in this plenary on the return of extra pay. Therefore, in the year that we are in the approval of 17 new embassies, of the Catalan agency itself, of the security agency, I do want to ask you today a number of questions: One. What will happen with the return of the 2013 and 2014 extras? How are the negotiations with the unions on this? Two. What will happen to the enforcement of the judgment, that of the 33/2015 agreement? Because you have given up a month and a half before you knew that the sentence was going to be unfavourable to you, but that certainly does not exempt you – because the unions, moreover, have not given up – from the pay of interest and the costs of that procedure. I am not going to ask you now the reordering of the entire judicial office, effective, or rejection of places, but what I am going to say is: okay, we will vote in favour and this decree will be validated, but we cannot say in this case that it is never late if the bliss is good, because, of course, this recovery of the extra payment is necessary, but it is very late.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.157.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Parliamentary Group candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.158.0	Thank you, President. Well, counselor, first of all, tell him I was surprised because it seems that there are groups that have personally communicated this resolution. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] To us, too? I didn't know it, I didn't know it, because I was going to say "we're strangers," but not because I didn't have this distinction with us. Well, anyway, the decree that stands out, or is presented to us by the government today, with this decree on the extraordinary payment of the December 2012 staff of the Justice Administration in Catalonia, huh? , just as the rest of the public sector of the Generalitat, is the answer, so it is certain, to won judicial sentences; it has not been made in the mark of collective bargaining as caldria; it is the answer, however, in some way also, to agreements entered into and the answer also to agreements approved in this very Parliament last month of generation, of political character, where the Government of the Generalitat was to take the appropriate measures to recover the retailing of public employees' labour rights. And as we have already made manifest on other occasions and in other interventions, and in the interventions that have preceded us, in fact, we are again putting forward a debate that we have already had in this Chamber and that deals with pay, wage increases, as with the different proposals that have been put forward in this Parliament, even though there are important differences in one or the other. In this sense, tell him that our group will support the decree in the measure that we understand that this is the result of this judicial judgment, but it is also the result of named agreements and is on the line..., and above all this is what binds us to a favorable position or validate this decree, in the line of defense of the recovery of the purchasing power of the workers of the Public Administration, which in the last few years, has already been said here, so they have suffered an important loss, more than 20_per_cent. Despite everything, like other times, we would like to make two considerations of respect. One favour, that is, that this validation of the fem in the march to be in favor of the public sector. A public sector that we want to power, along with detail, we have said it other times; along with depreciation; along with perilous work places, and that in the case of the Administration of Justice, concretely, therefore, we want it in Catalan. And the other is that, also in the parameter of the fact that we are in favour of putting topalls, it looks like one..., we are repeated in this, we think that a topall of maximums and other minimums in the salary or pay that manages the Administration is an objective to do and that, moreover, it is an issue that..., this of wage differences, is not a minor issue, therefore, for which we are seeing later has a direct influence on issues such as over-indebtedness and lack of opportunity to do so. Despite everything, therefore, it will have validation on our part of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.159.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the words of Mr Sergi Sabrià, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.160.0	Good morning, President. Counselor, let's start to congratulate him because they've all been there – at once, at last – but at the end they haven't, so I'm starting to congratulate him; to say that, well, it seems to me that what we're doing now is good news, or it should be good news for everyone. And it seemed to me that we made an effort, all of us, very important that what's good news didn't seem to be and, therefore, to do opposition work even when we're doing all the folds, and that it seems to me that we will approve unanimously, is excellent news for these workers and for the country as a whole. Well, it wasn't an easy situation. It seems to me that it took a long time to search and resolved with a lot of speed. Therefore, for us, therefore, congratulations. Some of the interventions have especially pleased us, huh? The PP one, it seemed that only the details had been made in Catalonia and that, moreover, when we asked for an effort to work – or that seemed to me to hear – it was to turn them into independenceists, it seemed to me that it was to give them once more mass to all folded, but maybe it was I who didn't understand it. Anyway, the news seems pretty good to us. It recovers all the December 2012 pay and makes it today and here and with this law decree, we can do it, therefore, with November's payroll, between the 2016 fiscal year. There are some things that Mrs. Ibarra was commenting that we have not just seen clearly, but in any case we agree that something has happened with the royal decree. One option is that it doesn't fit in with what was going on, another is that it was done expressly, and therefore, all of this delayed it, and that while some of the workings were worth around 25_per_cent, so the workings of justice were done up to 75_per_cent. In any case, this produced a situation that was unfair and today, with this subscription, we resolve it. I can't remember, because it has also come out in all cases, that this November the staff of the Generalitat will also charge..., from the rest of the staff of the Generalitat will charge a 20.77_per_cent of the 2012 pay. It's a part of what was left pending and it's a compliment to an agreed resolution here as well as to a super-table agreement, a public service super-table agreement that, more than that, retreats – and the working groups have already been created – that will work on recovering the two pending payments. Therefore, it is good that Mr. Vidal forces the machine; but in any case, it seems to me that the space is there and that this, moreover, will revert to all spheres, also in the realm of justice, finally, as we have seen this time. They were talking about a lack of willpower, a lack of... I think there's a lot to be done, but at the end of the day, you're gonna work justice until you get it back. Therefore, I do..., it seems to me that there are three points that are key, that the counselor also highlighted them, this effort to make the payment full and pass the page of this stage of the adjustments. We have had the occasion, here, to talk about it many times with many of you and to expose many doubts as to whether there really was a willingness to definitively reverse these adjustments. This was the main debate that we had, and I think we are carrying in this Parliament you show that this is so, that it is at the possible speed, but in any case, all these details are being reversed. A second thing that seems to me to highlight: the ability of the department at a time of highly migratory resources, of being able to save 10_millions, of not having to ask the Conselleria d'Economia, but of doing it with resources that are suitable, of being able to do it now and here, and, therefore, that this was carried out during this 2016, in November and not having to link it to the presuppost 2017. And it seems to me that the third is also quite important, even though someone wanted to connect it, so..., which, moreover, withdraws the cassation appeal once validated the decree and ends the legal battle. Therefore, this seems to us that it is also more of a show of good will. I make it clear at this point that Mrs. De Rivera said: "Listen, the gods... No, they're four years old. And, therefore, that which I have made clear, and here, that they have, for four years, the possibility of requesting it. I end up the same way I started, it seems to me that what we're doing here is an excellent news for a collector, that of the public workers, who fit a good part of the adjustments that were demanded during the crisis. And it seems to me that more than that is not the last and that, therefore, we will return to talking more often, that there will be more agreement, and that, therefore, this reversal of this situation will continue, and, therefore, that we will have the opportunity, which does not always pass, to continue to give good news in this area from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.161.0	Thank you, Congressman. Call it a vote. According to Rule 155.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in opposition, or are in favour of the derogation. [[Long break.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the validation of Decree Law 5/2016. The vote begins. The law decree was validated by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. In accordance with Rule 155.4 of the Rules of Procedure, the decree has once been validated, I ask the House whether any parliamentary group wants it to be passed as draft law. [[Pause.]] No, no, As long as there is no petition, this decree will not be dealt with as the bill of law. The session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.162.0	It's part of the session. [[Question to the Government on the transparency of the Government of the Generality]] [[300-00097/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the transparency of the Government of the Generality, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the parable of Mr. Fernando de Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.163.0	Well, good afternoon. Deputies, deputies, companies, Mr. Counsellor Romeva..., the second problem of the Spaniards, behind unemployment, is corruption. This is indicated by CIS data. Also in Catalonia, although the last CEO did not ask what that concern was. We already know that here we don't like to talk about corruption in Catalonia, and we don't like to talk about corruption in this government too. But, in any case, today we are going to talk, and a lot, about corruption and transparency; today we are going to talk, and a lot. Political corruption is a scourge that is not only an economic damage that leaves us with many millions of euros, that literally takes them warm, corrupt and that prevents us from carrying out so many of the social policies and so many of the policies that are ultimately needed in any democratic state. But it is not only an economic damage, it is also a scourge that has greatly discredited this profession, that has greatly discredited politics and that has greatly discredited institutions. In the end, politics is a tool to seek solutions and not to seek problems, and corruption has certainly had a great impact on all that. And corruption is not mandatory, you can do politics without corruption, some of us show it every day. Democracy will be strong when you really fight corruption, all together, and especially those parties that have had and still have a lot of cases of corruption. They also reminded us at the international level. You should know this from your parliamentary past, how the European Commission reminded us in 2014 of the importance of political parties fighting corruption, because on many occasions what they cause is that the image of a country is damaged and, ultimately, the image of politics is damaged. According to data recently published, among the youngest, among the eighteen-and-twenty-five-year-olds, interest in politics has increased slightly – that is positive – but instead it has decreased confidence in politics, and it has decreased in such a way that there are eight_of_each_ten young people who think that political parties only take care of themselves and that they are not an instrument to change things. Also on this scale of confidence, Spanish youth ultimately place political parties as corrupt institutions, according to them, and that they cannot provide solutions to the problems and needs of the day-to-day. Look, Mr. Romeva, do you know what this is? [[The orator shows a full chamber.]] This is a list that reaches the ground – I had no role left – of the main cases of corruption, of all cases of corruption that have occurred in Spain – that has occurred in Spain – and cases of corruption that have also occurred and that still exist in Catalonia. Unfortunately, this list is very long and unfortunately in Catalonia the problems of corruption are the same as in the rest of Spain. I have highlighted here some of the cases of Convergence corruption; there are many, not to stop me: Banca Catalana, case ITV, case Treball..., in short, all know them, what are those cases. And as much as they change their names, as much as they change their acronyms, as much as they change their colors, they will never be able to change everything they have done with many of the millions of euros and money of all Catalans during all these years. Therefore, as I say to you, corruption is an urgent problem, a necessary problem that must be tackled every day. To combat corruption, we need to act judicially and we need to act politically, and its role as a Transparency Adviser must be, since it does not propose any measures in the area of corruption, because we have not yet heard from it any anti-corruption measures, which at least do not hinder those we are trying to do so. And I am saying this because I am going to ask you a number of questions relating to the general policy debate. Do you agree to protect public workers, for example, who report cases of corruption? I want you to answer me yes or no. Can a Transparency Advisor be against public whistleblowers, in this case workers, who are often the first to see such cases of corruption, because they are in institutions, and who are not protected by their rights, who are violated..., who do not dare, at times, in the end, to condemn such cases for losing their jobs, by pressure from other colleagues or politicians? Are you against it or in favor? I say that because he voted against it at the last plenary session. Do you agree with depoliticizing justice and that judges do not choose politicians? Do you agree with a more independent justice? I say this because you, as an MEP, at your stage as an MEP, who was also an active MEP, and I acknowledge that, you presented initiatives to depoliticize justice and criticized the Constitutional Court for its politicisation and other courts. But since you have become independent, since you sat with Convergence on the same bench, you have already forgotten to defend the depoliticisation of justice; not only does you not defend it, but you vote against it in this Parliament. Yes, yes, I would; you voted against the depoliticisation of justice in this Parliament – you would not. What happens, that you, when the judges don't choose you, get angry. What you like is to choose the judges, not the citizens – that's what upsets you – or the judges. Are you in favour of ending political outbursts? You can laugh whatever you want; you laugh, I still have five minutes. Do you believe that a Transparency Advisor may be in favour of no privileges in the 21st century? What do you think of that? Are you in favour of or against political outbursts? Because he voted... in this case he abstained. In this case, the Transparency Advisor refrains from politicians having privileges. What about the rotating doors? Are you in favor of or against rotating doors? And pardons? That you know a lot about that in your party, from pardons to politicians, in Convergence, with whom you sit next door, at the time with the People's Party and with CiU, where the chromes were changed, you know? , in exchange for reforms. Good thing you're in the Joint Group now and you can't decide. What about everything that has to do with fighting corruption, with all these measures? To depoliticize justice, to put an end to strangulations, pardons, revolving doors, whistleblowers, what do you think of all this? Can a Transparency Counsellor be against all these urgent measures? But you could say to me: "Look, I can be against or I can be in favour of these issues, but I am exemplary in my management as a counselor, I am an example of transparency for society. And I could buy him the argument. But it's just that you're the Transparency Advisor and you're the least transparent of all the advisors. And I tell you by your agenda, where you publish what you want; where we have to learn through the press of your publications; where we have to ask, colleagues who are working on that commission, information for you to tell us something, because, if not, we don't know about your agenda. And I know that if we had known in time, not in the past, after publishing the, but in time, then perhaps it would not have seemed good to us that you would have gone to the United States and met with members of the Tea Party ; for those who do not know what they are: the most conservative wing, more racy, if I may say so, more cussy of the American far right. You go to Finland and meet with the Finnish Party, which is the far right, are Eurosceptic. They are called ‘the authentic Finns,' does that sound like ‘we are the authentic Finns and they are not the authentic Finns? And the worst part is that, when he comes to Spain, he tells us that he has been invited by the Finnish Government. The gentlemen of the Finnish embassy have to come and take out a press release and say to him: « Raül Romeva, a member of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, has not been invited to Finland by the Finnish authorities. He puts it in a press release from the Finnish embassy. Or do they lie too? Now don't laugh so much – now don't laugh so much. And then neither the Government of Finland nor Parliament nor any other authority has invited Mr Romeva; they have been parliamentarians, in their right, who have called you. By the way, parliamentarians of the far-right conservative and Eurosceptic party. Look, if you make a fool of yourself, I don't care if you make a fool of yourself. What I care about is that we make all Catalans ridiculous. Because you, when you go to these conferences, don't go as a teacher of the Autonomous, who has a lot of career and career; you go as a counselor of all Catalonia; you go as a counselor of all Catalans. So, if you make the ridiculous, I care less; but what worries me is that we all make the ridiculous. Have you not considered that you may be given these political characters because you are going to talk about independence? Has no one told you, in your department, why you receive such parties and political figures? Doesn't anyone tell you? Or, haven't you noticed? I think you're a smart person. Have you not realized that if you went with another speech, if you were to really talk about Catalonia, how to encourage consumption, how to encourage tourism, how to encourage businesses, perhaps instead of receiving you from the Finnish party and the Tea Party, which are Eurosceptic ultra-right parties, then perhaps you would receive moderate parties, focused parties, parties that govern, in any case, parties that can decide, not these gentlemen? Look, corruption and transparency is one of the serious problems of citizens and you don't take it seriously. It is not taken seriously by what I have told you, because many of the proposals that we are pushing, not only in Catalonia but in the rest of Spain, you vote against or abstain. And furthermore, in his own agenda, I insist, in his activity as a counselor, he does not demonstrate that transparency. How will you fight corruption and transparency if you are the least transparent of all? I only ask those who are doing so and those who are serious about the fight against corruption, those who do not have cases of corruption, those we fight every day..., the only thing I would ask is that at least it doesn't make it harder for us and support us as a Transparency Advisor. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.164.0	Thank you, Congressman. The word has Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Transparency and Institutional Relations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.165.0	Mr De Páramo, quite frankly, I have the impression that you have a certain need – and it is understandable – to create a virtual reality in order to be able to mislead the real intentions and the great confusions that you must have at the time of doing what you say you want to do, because, of course, I was listening to it and wondering if this speech will also make it at the Congress of Deputies and I wonder if you are aware that when you were making the list, you were making the list precisely of all the situations that we have regretted and that I should regret a party that at these times you have made President of the Spanish Government. And so it's really surprising that they don't just have to read, because all you've actually said is to distort things that, besides, are public and lie – but that's what we're already used to – just to pretend that the rest of the people are going to believe this universe that you're building. It's been a long time since they've done it and they've had us used to it, but frankly they have a little tired of this speech, of this, of this will not only not to tell the truth, but to build practically parallel realities. I believed, and I honestly say this honestly, that the opportunity we had to talk about transparency today was a great opportunity to explain – and I will – everything that we're doing here and that I'll love to see – I'll love to see – if other administrations where you are influential – not like here – have the ability to promote. Because effectively when we talk about transparency we agree, we agree on a fundamental principle: we agree that transparency is the basis of trust between citizens, citizens and administrations; we agree that today precisely this lack of trust is what generates harmful consequences, collective frustrations, erosion of the democratic system and that, in fact, it is very much in the essence of why ultimately on many occasions people vote as they vote. I think, in this sense, we have, and I would say, and I recognize it, a starting point in the shared analysis. But it's that transparency goes a lot further than being able to access the information. From the outset, transparency from the political point of view means phonative ownership of the citizenry; it means returning the ability to understand, to debate, to deliberate at the conjunction of the citizenry. But that means not avoiding reality, that means facing reality, that means explaining the truth, that means not lying, that means that when you have the evidence before your eyes you don't pretend that..., much more so than you put it more this way, and all the more angry, constantly, with a certain irony that they claim to be hurtful and that in reality the only one that does is to show the cares that you have as a political project. What we're talking about is basically this need to build free corruption administrations, but on the basis, obviously, of an accountability to the citizenry. And that is precisely the reason why we from the government understand and make a policy of transparency – and I will say it with all clarity – absolutely exemplary and, I repeat, I will already like to see how other administrations copy. Transparency is not just a way to behave, it's a way to read reality, it's a way to interact with reality. And so much so that you have this reality that you have before your noses and that, as you pass by, you don't like it, this reality will not disappear. And what does reality tell us? The reality tells us that at these times, if you do the dues, that you didn't do them – it didn't do them, because it doesn't suit you, because it doesn't matter – but if you do the dues you will see that what we're doing as ruling in the compliment of Law 19/2014 for which it makes transparency, access to public information and good governance..., this government has done a series of things that I think you in your intervention would have been well and would have been more honest, at least, than recognized. A new open government portal has been made available to citizens, offering all tools to access information. You yourself have acknowledged that you are asking for information; what you did not say is that this information is provided to you; that you did not say. And that's it, from the point of view, I don't say that I'm missing the truth anymore, but I'm not. There are ways that they do not have other administrations, of which you, I repeat, are very responsible, to assess public management and to participate in the design and decision making. I'll love to see what speeches you make to Congress when you have the ability or the ability to influence it. He has not explained that we have promoted a transit of access to public information that is every time more known and that, in fact, the figures so recognize, because the requests have increased by 129_per_cent. That means that we're doing what it takes to do, that it's putting the tools at the hands of the citizenry because they can be public public action controllers. And it seems to me that this, as a minimum, deserves to be taken into account and recognized, even so. He hasn't talked about the tool we've put at these times at the people's disposal, which is the electronic dispatch manager on all internal and external actions. Oblivion of an element that we do take very seriously. As you will surely know, Transparency International is dedicated every two years to assessing the actions of different governments. Now two years ago, in 2014, the Generalitat obtained the highest score. He will surely know that the criteria have changed; therefore, he will surely know that at these times keeping the score is much more complicated. But surely you will know..., or, if not, you would have to know that, because I am convinced that you will have consulted the portal of transparency to prepare for this intervention, and you will have seen that we have introduced fundamental elements: the detailed and individualized information of the government's official trips, the agenda of the other branches and meetings with interest groups, the publication of government agreements, the empowerment of an anonymous channel – anonymous – for the presentation of complaints through the Anti-Fraud Office. I don't know why you conclude that we're going through the complaints, when we've precisely put all the tools – we've put all the tools – as in the government – you're asking me how to rule, I answer it as in the government – to be able to guarantee this. That's the truth. This is the reality that you don't like, because it puts them in evidence, but it's reality. And, moreover, he forgot to say, for example, that last June the Government approved the Code of Conduct of the High Levels and the Management Staff; that the Register of Interest Groups was set aside, a tool specifically designed to fight corruption, that obviously, as it does not want to explain the truth, it has gone from the point of view to the point of view, it has gone from the point of view to the point of point of view, and that in these moments it is the sign that from a point of view, let's say, practice is the most demanding of what we have in our surroundings. It seems to me that when you talk about responsibility, the first thing you need to do is be responsible. You have a certain tendency to look at the sayings, always, and forget about the moon; in fact, to build up, at all events, parallel Mondays to be able to divert your attention—your attention, of course, but also to pretend that the rest of the people are following them—and not to be aware that there is a reality that is moving around. And, as much as you insist that this government's attitude is wrong– that I'm sure that in many things it's better, I can't deny it, I'll never deny it–, as much as I can't deny any of the ways, is that this government is doing its dues, it's doing it with a note, and it seems to me that it's not just being, but being responsible for itself, as well as starting from the recognition of this fact. Then we can differ politically, and we will certainly do so – go, I'm not convinced – how we can use these tools with some objectives or with others; therefore, I have no doubt. But denying the reality, which is what you do constantly, permanently, or inventing another one and pretending that this other reality the rest of the world will buy it for free, seems to me to be a dramatic example of living in another world, in another planet and in another truth. But in any case, I wanted to thank him – sadly, I don't think he took advantage of it – for being able to talk about all these issues. I am convinced that you will now read, consult and analyse all this information that I have given you. And I'm also convinced that if you're a responsible politician – I don't have a doubt and I don't have a reason to think that no, that I don't want to be – you'll appreciate with a little rigour and a little detention everything I said. I will no longer enter, at least in this first intervention, to value other comments that would put them much more in evidence. In any case, I'll save myself for the second reply, depending on what you consider relevant to answer. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.166.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The word "Mr. Fernando de Páramo".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.167.0	Well... Well, Mr. Romeva, I would ask you not to give us lessons from realities parallel to us, when you go around the world selling a parallel reality, which is a Catalan republic. And he's selling it when... well, when they open the door to those meetings. He is right in things he has said: the People's Party has cases of corruption, yes, and many; they have made cuts, yes, and many. You have corruption cases and cuts, as you have Convergence, and on top you rule with them and sit next to them in the seat; exactly the same thing. Since you talk about me – you have told me that I am angry and that..., I am not angry, quite the opposite – I will also talk about you. It must be difficult to be a Transparency Advisor sitting next to Convergence; I recognize you that this work..., you have a lot of work ahead and must be very complicated. [[Greetings.]] I also see you very looking forward to our activity in Congress; it also happens to the President, who recognizes us every day that we are influential and that we are decisive, and I am grateful that you too recognize that success. And precisely in that – as you have asked me to inform myself and I have informed myself, now I will quickly explain things that I have analyzed – report to you too. Because if you are so keen on our activity in Congress you will know that we are pushing for a law against corruption, that a bill has already been introduced and that we are going to defend that, among other things, to defend the whistleblowers, what you are voting against in this Parliament. What you are voting against in this Parliament..., review Parliament's Bulletin and review the voting records, because you are voting against. And he hasn't answered me. It has attacked me directly; I understand that it is the parliamentary dynamic and I accept it, as it cannot be otherwise, but it has not answered any of the questions. Do you agree to suppress the stumbling blocks, yes or no? Do you agree to end the pardons of corrupt politicians, yes or no? Do you agree to break down the rotating doors, yes or no? Do you agree that justice should be depoliticized and that judges should be chosen by judges and not by politicians, yes or no? Things that you have defended, and I have recognised, with a policy that is also very active, at your stage as a Member of the European Parliament. Now he's sitting in that chair and he's forgotten everything. And he forgot to defend things that you even defended and that honored him. Look, I've made the effort to look at Transparency, of course I've done it, an association in which our party is also and in which we also have..., in our case we have a ten in transparency, and we have no problem in recognizing it. But the same institution recognizes, in one of its points, that in no case – I read textually – « these indices try to measure the level of corruption or conduct of persons who may belong administratively or politically lead the aforementioned institutions. I mean, it's very good that you have that note in transparency, I congratulate you, but transparency and the fight against corruption is not just about making a web. And if not..., I have now forgotten the role of the one who came to the ground, of all the cases of corruption we have. It's not just about making a web: you have to fight corruption every day politically. That is why I was putting those measures on the table, which I believe you – I am telling you sincerely now – agree with many of them, but they may not let you defend them in your parliamentary group, or they may not let you defend them in your government; I say this because of the cases of corruption that Convergence has throughout this time. But I ask you, please, in this turn of reply, at least answer me if you are in favour or against. Do whatever it is in your personal capacity, so I can stay calm. On the subject that you have commented on of interest groups, well, by analysing interest groups, it turns out that there are one of the associations that according to the definition of interest groups that have to be included in that register are those associations that somehow influence political decisions or influence legal activity, right? – you know well what I'm talking about, all those associations –..., and it turns out that the ANC doesn't appear in that register of associations that you get so much chest out of here a_minute ago and that tells me that I haven't reviewed it. Yes, I've reviewed it, and the ANC doesn't appear. What's going on? That the ANC does not influence Catalan society? Does the ANC not work to change – legitimately, it would miss more –, propose changes? But don't hide it. Put the... I already know that here there's news from you, that you were going to lead the ANC, huh? As the media put it, you were going to be the new leader of the ANC, they already offered you charges... I don't know if that's when you were offered to go number 1, and then go to the debates... I don't know when you were offered that. I don't know if they're true or not, I don't care much. What is true is that you do not have it, in the Register of Associations, registered. Don't take so much of transparency out; let's see if in the end those 100 points of Transparency International are going to become less points. But in any case, we do do the homework, of course we do the homework. We are preparing the speeches, we are not bringing them in in writing, as you have brought them to me, and you have not answered any of the questions I have asked you. And I would like you to take advantage of this last intervention, even if it is already for political dignity, and answer me once and for all whether you agree or against all those measures to combat corruption that Citizens and other political groups also defend in other parts of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.168.0	Thank you, Congressman. The word has Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.169.0	Look, Mr De Páramo, with all frankness: transparency means going to a few elections with an election program and completing it, which is what this group is doing and is what this government is doing; this is transparency. Transparency means that, when there are 2_million people who manifestly, legitimately, peacefully ask to be escorted and be able to collectively decide their future, they are taken into account and not brought to justice. And to me it seems embarrassing that you, denying this reality, continually hold the bar to say that we are not constantly denouncing the judicialization of politics. It's embarrassing that you pretend to deny the reality that you have before your noses, simply because of a partisan interest – that you wouldn't even say "a political interest, that would be legitimate, huh? – a partisan interest that would justify his existence of being; an existence that, in short, the only one who does is to store the great opacitates of his intentions. You didn't come here to talk about transparency, we're still aware of that, you didn't come here to talk about transparency. Because if you wanted to talk about the transparency of the government, which was the title of the inquiry that you had made to us, you would have taken all the questions that I put to you about the table and we could have commented them one by one. You didn't come here today to talk about transparency, you just came here to do what you always do, which is to divert the focus of attention because we forget who you are supporting, for what reasons and with what obscure – or every time less – objectives. They're still imagining the reality of this country and this Parliament. I know they don't like it, but you're still denying the reality and lying about what the parliamentary mandate of this group means and the parliamentary obligations of this government. If you want to talk about transparency you will find it, no problem – no problem. But you don't just don't want to talk about transparency, but what you want is to precisely store the inconsistencies of your political practices and your alliances. In fact, we wouldn't be talking about alliances; we're talking about explicit supports. Because, ultimately, when you're doing me all the wrong things, if you're aware and consistent with what you're planting, you'd have to be a lot more responsible, a lot more careful, because all these newspaper announcements that you've done, obviously, some day, for other lives, will end up turning against you. And if not, let's remember the campaigns that you've made that we're never going to be president of anyone that we then incomprehensiblely try to justify that we've made the presidents. But that's the problem you have, not mine. This government continues to work, continues to comply with our electoral mandate, and this government will continue to defend, transparently, peacefully, politically and on the basis of the reality it faces, a demand that you, either late or late, must assume exists. That's transparency. That's responsibility. I don't give me lessons in politics. We do not teach you the ability to build transparent and accountable institutions with accountability. Because that's exactly what we'll ask of you a few days ago, and the colors will come out – and the colors will come out – because they won't get together, to do everything that you're saying here to those actors that you consider to be so – so, so – uncomfortable today. I didn't say it a few days ago, I didn't say it a few months ago, but now, out of interest, I repeat it, not just politics, but partyists, which is much more questionable. As it goes, the day you want to talk about transparency and concrete transparency measures for this government this day will be at your disposal. Meanwhile, we must continue to endure this song so – so, so – tired, so weary, so exhausting to build a parallel reality that you, obsessed as you are, need to do to justify yourself. That's too bad! We have lost an opportunity to make a very interesting debate about tools of better and democratic quality. The next time will be. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.170.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Draft law on the protection of the right to housing of persons at risk of residential exclusion (debate of totality)]] [[200-00016/11]] The fifth item on the agenda is: discussion of the totality of the Bill of Rights Protection Measures to the Housing of Persons at Risk of Residential Exclusion. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative, on behalf of the Government of the Generality, is presented by Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Adviser, Public Administrations and Habitats.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.171.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of Parliament, Secretaries-General of the Department, Secretaries of Habitatge, Director of the Agency of Habitatge de Catalunya. As you know, we are here to begin processing, as they say, in their parliament, the Protection Bill and the right to housing of people who are at risk of exclusion. But I want to start by making a very strong statement, and it is that I would like not to be here today, because that would mean that the Law 24/2015 would remain in force and, therefore, giving an answer to what this Parliament has come up with on the basis of a popular initiative. The Government, as you know, on the basis of the State, decided, on 29 April, to bring to the Constitutional Court the Law on Urgent Measures to Address Emergencies in the Field of Housing and Energy Poverty, to the Constitutional Court, and, moreover, made the political decision to request the suspension of the good part of its article. Thus, the State Government appealed to the law stating that it was in conflict with Spanish law, that it was discriminating against the rest of the citizens of the State, and that it was contrary to the interests of the banks. Yes, these were the causes for which we were to be carried. And the effects of the suspension were clear: those articles that gave tools to the joints were suspended, basically, to face the residential emergency. In response to this we wanted to do, therefore, an answer, I understand, at the country level. President Puigdemont convened a summit with representatives of the local, economic and social world, of the law-promoting entities and of all the parliamentary groups of the Parliament of Catalonia. That summit was used to find that the issue of housing is a country issue, as I said. Despite the discrepancies, therefore, policies that we may have, that are logically; despite the conflicting ideas that we may defend or, even so, legitimate party interests, housing is a country issue and an assumption that concerns us all. It is not, in any case, a conflict between two administrations, two ideologies or two governments. It's not a question of competition, it's not a question of flags either. It's a conflict that leaves a lot of vulnerable people unprotected. And this is the drama. From that summit the task is to make a new law that leaves no effect on the consequences of suspension. And it was a double charge: for a band, to make a new law at a time remembering and that is arranged in one reading, because this made it easier for us to have this tool before we had the joints. And, therefore, it was a matter of doing so in good time, and, in addition, therefore, supplanting everything that had been suspicious of us with the Law 24/2015. Who else did he clearly have, giving us to the graveyard? That it was difficult to appeal, if not, from a judicial point of view, and, therefore, that could not be suspected. It has been, and I know, a complex, difficult and often, too, very, very imaginative pocket. But finally, on July 29th, we were able to present this new law text at a _second summit, a text that responds to the concrete task that lies ahead, which is to provide tools to address the residential emergence of our country. And this work has been done – and I want to highlight it with big letters, if I may – by the municipalist entities, the Catalan Association of Municipalities and the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia, as well as by the Barcelona Assembly, because they are the local world, basically, the ones who claim that we can quickly hold these tools against denations and the emergence in habitats. He has also helped us, and in a very valuable way, the Council of the Advocate of Catalonia, as well as the Collège d'Avocats of Barcelona. And he's been very helpful to us all this time in court that I've been commenting on, hasn't he? We need it to be a legally sound document and therefore there are no exceptions. I, for another band, also, the driving group of the ILP of the habitatage, like good conneixadores, therefore, of this problem, for a band, and pushers of that Llei 24/2015. To all – to all – I want to convey our thanks very sincerely. This, as you know, is not a law of the government, this is a law that we have made these different actors, and, therefore, it is a law, we could say, of the local world, it is a law, also of the country's law of lawyers. And, therefore, thanks, also, to all political groups, which you know we have had various meetings, we have put ourselves on the day of the evolution of this law, of the results of the work, we have had their presentations, and therefore here we will explain it. We've done the whole thing with this law. Finally, it will be for an emergency procedure, for the reasons we all know. The law was not read in a single reading, as it had been granted. If you were that way, in fact, it would be three weeks before we had the law passed, twenty-one days, and a law to stop charges. So, let's hope that this law is approved, so, quickly, as quickly as possible, because every day that passes, we know well, every day, so, we lose tools to put up with these denunciations that are produced. The text that we are presenting today is a very solid legal text, as I said, with the approval of the counsel's college, and therefore difficult to resort to. It is a text that gives solution to the suspension of good part of the articulate of the law. And go so far as to say that this text is not a point and end in housing matter, logically, it's a point and followed. There are many other things that we have to deal with, that we have to work on, that we are dealing with, that we are working on, but it was asked that it was a specific law to resolve what is being suspended with the Law 24/2015, and we know that we have to deal with the issue of the priests of the loguers, access to housing on the part of young people, or so many other issues. And here we have a working group, as you know, that is working. There have been more than two meetings with representatives of parliamentary groups, and all this has been happening. The suspension of the Constitutional Court affected three basic aspects of the law: the first, mediation in the event of over-indebtedness; the second, the temporary cessation of use of the empty floors of the financial entities; and the third, the social logger obligatori on the part of the financial entities and the great tenors to the people who are about to be dislocated. The Government of the State, as I said, appealed to the law because, among other questions, it entered areas that were not of our competence, that this law was discriminatory to the citizen of the Spanish State, and because these actions were against banks and put the financial system at risk. How have we faced these holes that left us behind from the new law? First of all, how do we deal with mediation? Therefore, the suspension affected the first two parts of Article 2, which established the possibility for consumers to pursue out-of-court proceedings for the resolution of over-indebtedness situations and managed by over-indebtedness commissions. The main argument that was given was that this was to enter the process right and that we could not force the court to take into account, mandatoryly, the resolution of the mediation process. So, what's the answer we give? So, we have recovered the consumer mediation, and so Article 10 of the new law establishes a mediation procedure in the area of consumer demand for the affected and that includes, logically, a sanitation plan. Second place, how do we solve the temporary session that had been suspended. Therefore, the suspension affected Article 7.1, which specifically stated: "The Administration may resolve the mandatory session of housing for a period of three years to incorporate them into the housing fund of lloger, for social policies in the case of empty housing that remains the property of legal persons. The first law gave power to the administrations, preferably to the joints – and if they did not have the power, therefore, to the Generality – to force the banks to give up the use of empty floors for three years. The appeal was based on the fact that it could not be forced to do so. So, what have we chosen? So, to recover the temporary cessation of empty habitats through forced expropriation and expropriation of the use. The new law says that banks and other registered tenants as holders of empty habitat registers have empty floors, so..., and are therefore not fulfilling the social use of the habitat, if it can expropriate the use for a period of four to two years, and therefore allocate them to the social use. Expropriation is done, logically, through the juror of expropriation that sets a price. And, in the third place, how do we secure the compulsory social logger if we were left suspicious? Here the remaining suspicions were articles 5.1 and 5.2. The first refers to the case of mortgage default, while the second refers to the defaults of logger. The law specifically stated: "The purchaser must offer to the affected persons a proposal for a social logue, if the purchase or sale affects persons or family units that do not have an alternative of own housing and that is found in the parameters of risk of residential exclusion. The Constitutional Court's appeal was based on the fact that it set a social logger binding without day, and that it was questionable, in this sense, the process, a perpetual limitation of the use of property. Therefore, what we do is that we establish a transitional and exceptional system for the relocation of families that are about to be denominated, and we fix a logger for a three-year extension, as well as, to the new law, we recover the compulsory social logger by way of the obligation of the relocation. In the course of the work, you know, there have been problems and proposals for actions that were more than there or that ran away from the subject of the suspended law, and at all times the drafting team thought it necessary to give an answer exclusively, as we had asked, so at the summit, to what reference was made to the suspected articles. I am talking, logically, and you know, about the problem of illegal occupations that have raised us from the local world, and that we will deal with in a specific work group. It is also the case of the petition of which it is to regulate the name of abuse. So I went so far as to say that this issue, when I made my parliamentary appearance to explain what the department's objectives were, we were going to say that it would be a working group to deal with this issue, and, in fact, 9 September was beginning to walk, and we are already beginning to draw the first conclusions. And you know that this is done, therefore, together with the economic and social world, coordinated, logically, in this case, by the Housing Chair of the University of Rovira and Virgils, to whom I also want to thank the work that they have at their disposal, therefore, of all folds. These, therefore, are the solutions that we have found in order to have a legal text that overcomes the effects of the law's suspension. It is not, therefore, the law that we would have done if Catalonia were to have the tools of any state, but it is the best law that we can take into account that what is absolutely necessary is that we do not have a suspension and that, therefore, in this sense, it is a law that gives solid togetherness and guarantees that they will be able to finish it. Useful laws are those that can be long-term, not those that say great things, but, at the time of truth, they cannot materialize. So this is a law that's a good law to replace 24/2015, but it's not a new housing law. The local world was urgently asking us to give us an answer and we'll have them back with this. Just to be able to have a useful and hard-to-recurrence law, as requested, some issues and problems that do not appear in Law 24/2015 do not fit into this law. It is true that they could not accept all the nine proposals of the ILP promoter group, because one of the two: either they were, as the goddess, included in the Law 24/2015, or they were much more in it and accepting them was, in some cases, opening a new source of possibility of suspension of the same law and, moreover, losing the speed that was being demanded, if we were to enter into a debate with new themes. On the other hand, we have been able to make proposals such as: to increase the number of municipalities that can use these new tools, and to increase from 72 to 234 municipalities; to increase the number of expropriations for a period of four to two years in three-year accounts; and, lastly, that the previous housing laws did not bring economic memory or compromises of the Generality's contribution or of the rest of the administration to develop it, which is what this law does. While this law does not come into force, we in Catalonia have unprotected the most vulnerable citizens indefinitely. At the gatherings we have them without tools to give it an answer, and the tax on the empty floors and the right to the storm and retract continues limited to 72 municipalities in accounts of 234. Therefore, we have resources, we have people and we also have tools to give solutions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.172.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.173.0	Very briefly. We are aware that on the table we have what the General Council of the Judiciary tells us, that in Catalonia every day there are forty denunciations, from them to Barcelona. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.174.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]] Then, as long as no totality papers have been presented, let's proceed to..., speak the different groups to fix their position. In the first place has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.175.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, entities that accompany us today, today we bring back to this parliamentary chamber the consequence of a failure in the system, because every time we talk about housing the famous blue screen that reminds us of one of the greatest dramas facing our society because of politicians who have not only been able to solve but have been part of the problem. That drama is the frustration of so many young and not so young people who cannot access housing, the sacrifice of so many families and people who have to spend more than half of their income on their housing, and the suffering of many families and people who have become homeless or are about to lose it. In this situation we are all obliged to reflect and act on what has led us here. But in order to change things first we have to do self-criticism. Was the real - estate bubble fed from public administrations? Yeah. Did public housing policies help to avoid bubbles? No, no, Have the necessary measures been taken to prevent a new bubble? No, no, Did political parties have their people on the boards of the savings banks? Yeah. Did they do anything to stop this? No, no, Did those who ruled speculate on public soil? Yeah. Do those who ruled, therefore, have some guilt in this? Yeah. Banks and caisses irresponsibly granted inflated credits based on overvaluing the value of the housing while those who ruled took advantage of this situation to fill the coffers of municipalities and other administrations and allocate that money to their partisan interests such as awarding pharaonic works to their colleagues. Meanwhile, the citizens left us completely unprotected. Civil society had to organize itself to claim the right to housing in order to put this issue on the political agenda. But unfortunately successive governments have not been able to live up to the effort that citizens have had to make. Housing policies, carried out by the different governments of Spain and the Generalitat, in which Convergence, Esquerra, Initiative, the Socialist Party, the People's Party, have not helped to solve the problem. The example is that it was civil society itself that had to push for a law to deal with housing emergencies that should never have occurred and that are not being sufficiently addressed today. The public housing deficiencies we have today are due to the fact that public administrators implemented short-term policies and put their partisan interests before the general interest. They sold land for protected use of housing to companies dedicated to the public promotion of housing for sale, with the consequent loss of public property, the property of all. One example of this is Mr Spinar's recent case. I've talked about self-criticism, and it takes a look back. We had a real estate bubble, inflated on the one hand by the irresponsible actions of the banks and on the other, by the Administration itself. Then the bubble exploded and those who had been taking advantage of the situation took out the scissors. The cuts applied by the Government of Convergence and the People's Party, the revelation of cases of corruption, together with a widespread questioning of the functioning of democratic institutions, gave rise to great mobilizations that we all remember against cuts in labour, health and education, while a banking system was rescued that would scam thousands of citizens with the preferents and expel them after their homes. And in this context, seeing its inability to maintain control over public opinion, Convergence decides to bet on the wildcard that populist and reactionary governments have always used: play everything to the exaltation of the nationalist sentiment in order to blame others, thus passing from being the recipient of social protests to heading the separatist mobilizations with the social disguise. And there they go, looking like they haven't broken a plate in their lives, as the counselor's intervention has shown. But some of us do not forget that Convergence, while it had the key of the Spanish government, was complicit, with its support to the People's Party, in labour reform, in fiscal amnesty and in the Budget Stability Act. The Budget Stability Act or the law under which cuts are made in terms of health, education or dependency. Those who say that Madrid does not pay were the ones who supported the law of cuts. We suffer anterograde amnesia, we are the Memento Parliament. We have lost memory in the long term; we have lost memory in the long term because we have a housing law that if it had been applied we would not be in this situation. And I refer to Law 18/2007, on the right to housing; a law that was passed at the time of the tripartite, a law that Esquerra, then governing and now governing, has never had an interest in applying; a law that could have helped to alleviate this situation. They mismanage because they are interested in generating the frustration necessary for society to buy them the discourse that in order to solve things we have to leave Spain, in order to be able to camp their wide in the courtyard they intend to create. This government is not only against the Spanish state, this government is fundamentally against the social state. Do you want state structures? What is the larger state structure than managing a budget of 30,000_million_euro? Because since the adoption of the law in 2007, a public housing park should have been set up to meet social needs. But some of us do have memories and remember that not only have they not created this public housing park but in 2013 they wanted to get rid of fourteen_ thousand public housing units. He said that mistakes made to remedy that lack of long-term planning and correct the model's errors should be recognized. And a solution to this problem requires will. The same will that the Government lacks because I remind them that our proposal for incentives to rent social for 140,000 euros fell, which curiously is less than the President of the Generalitat wins. In order to solve this problem, constant and self-critical policies are needed, because it is a structural problem not only of lack of public housing, but of access to employment in order to maintain it. What does the Government do to create quality employment? Do they allocate sufficient resources to research and development to change the productive model? No, no, Are they trying to secure resources for a public housing plan that would prevent a new housing bubble? No, no, Do you cut back on administrative duplication or trusting charges to get those resources? No, no, They not only cut them off but multiply them: own wealth, embassies, hire more trust... I accuse you of allowing this to happen, I accuse you of being the executing and co-responsible arm of this situation and I also accuse you of perpetuating it. Because Convergence wasn't always in the Mixed Group henhouse, when they had the opportunity to change things, what they agreed with the People's Party were cuts, tax amnesties and loss of labour rights. And they will say: "It is that the People's Party is very bad, and they had no other choice. Of course, there's another option. When you sit at a table to negotiate, you have two options: to negotiate to achieve social progress or to negotiate to achieve setbacks. You played the card of the retreat and we played the social advances. Citizens assumed a moral obligation in 2011 by promoting in this chamber a motion to urge the Government of Spain to legislate the pay-as-you-go law. At that time we had no representation in Congress, so I feel tremendously proud that one of the first things we did when we arrived is to put the payment on the table. Who was going to imagine a year ago that the People's Party would sign an agreement that included payment? I recognize that it was difficult to imagine, but it has been shown that when there is a real will to change things, agreements can be reached so that these progress can come. Recently, at the first summit on 3 May, the entities asked us for new legal instruments to provide security. On the occasion of the second summit, in July, the promoter group of Law 24/2015 warned us of the faracious, expensive and slow mechanisms involved in this bill. For this reason Citizens are committed to working very hard in the presentation phase and we will put forward amendments to demand a commitment from this Administration to effective public housing policies that will ensure that no one enters into a housing exclusion situation. You see, the blue screen of Windows jumps when the kernel of the operating system cannot recover from an error and the only action left to a user..., which a user can do is restart the system, losing all the unsaved work. We do not want that for citizens, the mistake of this system should not prevent families from rebooting their lives without losing the right to a second chance. Therefore, from Citizens we will work in Congress so that this second chance law becomes a reality; from the municipalities, to avoid the loss of public land, and, of course, from this chamber, to have a public housing park for social rent and so that this new law that occupies us today is a real legal tool, effective, that guarantees the right to housing and provides equal opportunities and social cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.176.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.177.0	President... Councillors, Members, Members and Members of the European Parliament have again reiterated, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that the central government, the government of the State, the government of the People's Party could have perfectly eliminated the appeal to the Constitutional Court to the Law 24/2015, not only to this law, to some others who are also chained with the problem we have at the front of..., which we have at the top of the table, right? We would have saved ourselves from the curse; we would have saved ourselves for a few months from the protection of vulnerable people and families, from the point of view of their housing problem, and we would also have been relieved of limitations at the time of action..., the country's assemblies, and legal insecurity on the part of local administrations. It is also true that there are some parts of the Energy Poor Law that have not been suspected, such as the ways to approach and address energy poor issues, and here I'm telling you, Counselor, that the government has watered down or has continued to water down a few in this matter. So, in those fears that there were no suspicions, we didn't just stick it out of our sight, did we? But what she's talking about right now, Mrs Borràs said, is that she has a rule..., Mrs Borràs said, because this is one of the results that came out of the two summits that took place on the part of..., where there was the local world, the country's assemblies, also the parliamentary groups and the people who promoted the popular legislative initiative that later became law, right? The conclusions of those summits, of which it was intended, were to have a norm that you allowed us, in Catalonia, the Government of the Generality, also at the joints, to continue to act in those situations of emergence. So we're talking about a law that it's about acting in those emergency situations that affect people and families in our country, huh? Another debate that I believe we will have to address, because they have changed social conditions in our country – they are changing, they are changing – and we have to transform, logically... Therefore, as the social reality is transformed, we need to transform the structuring housing policies of this country, and this is a debate we have pending. We can't go on doing what we've been doing for years, can we? If housing policies are social cohesion policies, these structuring policies, with a mid- and long-term perspective, we must also be able to modify them, right? So, this project up in Parliament, certainly, without unanimity in the working group that it was formed, but with a basis of consensus enough to push the norm forward, huh? It has the gathering of the municipalist entities of the country – in the truncal, central themes – it also has the gathering of the City Council of Barcelona, the Council of the Advocates, the lawyers of Catalonia. Introducing, from our point of view, we instruments to face the housing emergency, I repeat, in those aspects that have been resorted to by the Government of the State, the Government of the People's Party, and that have been suspected – without going into the background of the subject – by the Constitutional Court. Is this project introducing structural measures in the field of housing? No, but I don't think it was the object of this measure either. Is the debate closed? No, of course. We will need to continue discussing, I repeat, housing policies. Now, here in front of us, and we have to give an answer, we continue to have a social emergence in the field of housing, which is the consequence, or one of the consequences, of the economic crisis, but also of the fate that has arisen from this economic crisis that we experienced in the past few years. Why is the outflow occurring in the form of job insecurity and poverty wages in some areas, which affect, logically, the ability of families to pay or continue to pay mortgages or to continue paying rents, huh? Let me set a background: practically the 26_percent of the population is at risk of social poverty in our country. Virtually 13 percent of Catalonia's families have many difficulties in reaching the end of the month. According to the memory of the General Council of the Judiciary, only the year 2015, there were fifteen_ thousand launches in Catalonia. Attention: practically a 65, 66_per_cent of these launches are no longer for not being able to pay the mortgage, but for not being able to pay the rent, eh? , for payments of urban leases. Many of these payments... And I'm not talking... Here we have to do, I think, the difference between great owners and small owners, and when I'm talking about small owners I'm also talking about those people or families who can have one, two, three habitats, some of them to logue and who are also part of family income. So, here, when we get into the fund debate, this is a topic that we need to address. Let's get into the law. I believe that I resolve in a different way situations of how to address situations of over-indebtedness, articulated in this topic, at the time of acting in the Consumer Code. I want to make a correction to the Member who preceded me: the initiative to talk about the law of the second opportunity, or to talk about over-indebtedness, in this chamber is not given to the Ciutadans Group, it is given to a joint initiative of the majority of political formations of this Parliament of Catalonia, which took it as to 270 to the Congress of Deputies and which was defeated, eh? , conveniently, for the absolute majority of the Popular Party in Madrid. But it was at the initiative of the parliamentary groups of this chamber. We have succeeded, with the allegations that have been made – with the allegations that have been made – that the creation of this Habitat and Assistance Commission is not only unique, but can be replicated to territories and together. We went into the whole case of temporary expropriation of habitat use to solve three of the problems we had in the table. Here there is a difference with respect to the position of the Government with the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which you agree to give to the economic memory, because the temporary expropriation of the use of housing will entail expenses, eh? , and what we say is that this cannot be supported exclusively, like many of the housing policies, by the country's assemblies, but that there must be a clear, real commitment from the Government of the Generality. You have solved it to the economic memory, and we continue to insist that this must be made clear in the rule of law. Economic memory isn't legal, is it? , it is voluntary, and we believe that there must be an explicit commitment from the government to the local world of the country so that these expenses are shared as politics between the assemblies and the government. That's why we're taking responsibility. I think we'll have to discuss what happens to occupied dwellings without an enabling title. And here we will have to speak clearly about how we address this issue, how we set criteria, regulations, legal certainty; who are those questions to give out to families that do not have the title enabling, and how, through regulation and regulation, we also fight and give tools to fight against Mafia attitudes that have occurred in multiple directions; not only in those that have been commented on by some parliamentary group this morning: in multiple directions. This is a problem that will need to be addressed. And let's say, in these forty-seconds that we have: we, of course, will give support to the regulations; the council knows that. We hope that we will find each other and that we do not have recourse incidents with the government's presupposed commitments. But we won't solve this just from here. Cal iron structural policies in habitating matter. And the Government of the Generalitat has to start laying down and it has to come up with the assumptions of 2017 – we will – that, in order to solve the problem of housing in the country, we have to start effectively converging with Europe. It cannot be that a 1_per_cent only of the country's housing stock is destined for logger habitat, but we must arrive at the xifra, approximately, of the 13, 15_per_cent, as it passes to Europe. This means public resources on the part of governments, as well as the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Thank you, counselors, deputies, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.178.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word Lord Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.179.0	Thank you, President. Too late to all and so to all. Counselor, a parentheses before you start, because you have to look at the subject we're dealing with and it's an express petition to the Government of the Generality, in this case. Listen, given the situation that has been created with the issue of housing and the denunciations that have been produced for a long time, there are some incidents that we are going through, huh? At middays of the month you see, on 14 or 15, there will be a trial against the inhabitants, against a family that was denouncing 2011 at Clot, at the Andrade street, in Barcelona, with great police deployment and with incidents with the venial movement that it defended, which tried to put up with that denunciation. As a result, this family goes to court, as well as some of the venerable activists, and the generality's particular accusation goes beyond the prosecution's petition and asks for prisoners for the father and mother of that family, and also for two activists of the venerable movement of Clot and of..., or of Nou Barris. The petition is that, out of consistency with all that we are talking about, the Generality withdraws this particular accusation, that the most likely, moreover, is that justice ignores it, because precisely what the character is adding to the request for prison months because if they were actually sentenced to enter; one thing that does not correspond, to persecute people who have been the victim of a complaint, when we are just talking about housing emergence and this crisis. Therefore, I demand that the Judges of the Generality repent and withdraw, now that they are in time, because it is a question of justice. Let's get into the debate. There is a debate here that, in effect, is of the highest importance – everyone agrees – because we are talking about rights of people, about the situation of thousands of families that are currently in Catalonia at risk of residential exclusion, and we are creating an extraordinary emergency, because there is an actual rush, as has been said, to repair the damage caused by the suspension of a whole series of articles of the Law 24/2015 by the Constitutional Court in instances of the government of the PP. Some arrangements, so we have been repeated over and over again in the meetings, which have allowed us to put up with hundreds of denunciations in the time when they are in force. From this point of view, I would like to thank the promptness of the summit meeting to give an answer to this suspension, and I would also like to thank the work done during these months for lawyers, experts, local worlds to confection the project that today is so great for us. A project that we consider very useful and to which we give, overall, I support, but which we cannot adopt for one reading, as the Government wished. In the first place, because a problem of this abyss, from this urgency that we all recognize, must also be an object of parliamentary debate and city. But, in the second term and above all, because, in our opinion, the project that presents itself is insufficient in some respects to address some of the hardest issues that are manifesting themselves at these times, for which it does to the effective protection of the right to housing. It is, therefore, a better text and it is the responsibility of this Parliament to deal with it, by means of this processing, an effective and solvent tool. And it is that there are still – as has been said and remembered – complaints from vulnerable families, with young children and with large people; a mid-twenty-seven every day throughout Catalonia, and many times without having, at the time it is produced, an alternative of immediate re-location or without coming to an end to the judicial proceedings of initiation, despite the pronouncements of the European Court of Human Rights and the Courts of Justice of the European Union. And it's that there's also a continuing production of mortgages that make families lose their homes and, more importantly, leave them in debt for life. And we are seeing, again, an increase in sales prices, sales prices and loggers, especially in middle and large cities. In Barcelona, the vast majority of charges – perhaps there are between 80 and 90_per_cent – are currently due to the payment of loggers. All folded is the result of a huge speculative expression that is expelling people from the barrels with lower levels of access to a decent habitat, and that shows the failure of the constitutional and statutory mandate for the social function of the property. From this point of view, we would like to congratulate ourselves on the fact that the proposed project recovers the idea, the concept of the temporary expropriation of empty habitats because of social interest, which was very controversial when it was adopted, in 2007, the Law of the Right to Housing and which was one of the first things that fell with the bus laws when the Government of the best entered the Government. So, what this is recovered is good news and we can only congratulate ourselves on it. Because, precisely, the problem posed by the bill we are debating today is that it is still far from being able to deal with these daunting realities that existed before. And it is still far from taking on the legal and presuppositional consequences arising both from the express mandate of the Statute of Autonomy as from its implementation with the Law 17/2007 of 28 December, the Law of the Right to Housing, a law that dictates always valid and very clear obligations to the Government of the Generality and to the conjunction of public administrations, and says: "The combination of activities linked to the provision of housing intended for social policies – said in its fourth article – "is configured as a service of general interest to ensure a decent and adequate habitatation to all citizens, while the fifth states that the exercise of the right of property must complete its social function and the lawfulness of the legislation governing the administration, which may be required by law. It's in these parameters that we will place, in the course of our own days, the items – all of them, add-ons, eh? – development of the project that our parliamentary group is planning to present and consensus. In fact, we are already working with companies..., with the companies of the CUP and we hope that other parliamentary groups can add 'there, in the end, you make consent or are adopted and integrated into the final drafting of the law. The first points that we are going to make are precisely this, the principles and formulas of action, and they are insisting on the need to close the idea of this social function of ownership in the principle of prevention, with the establishment of measures and actions that allow to affect the procedures of launching and the sufficiency of resources, public resources. And, in this sense, as we have said before, we will ask for the explicit characterization of the social policies covered by this rule as a general interest, which implies that the assumptions of the Generality contain the necessary forecasts to ensure the effectiveness of the measures of reallocation or aid by supporting open or expandable parties, depending on the real needs. It is to which they referred earlier on about the need to equip the nerve of war with this institutional loyalty, which, for another group, affirms and reaffirms the project. Secondly, we will propose a theme that reflects the experience of one of our main allegations, which has been rejected with the argument that we cannot interfere with the process right, which is certain in itself, but is not about this... The experience of the assemblies, in particular that of Barcelona, shows that degans and magistrates appreciate the fact that public administrations provide information and elements that allow them to modulate the procedures of the launch in which they are involved. This is why we would like to call for the inclusion of a new article specifying that in court proceedings for the execution of mortgages or denunciation in which those executed are at risk of not having a reallocation habitat, the public administrations will facilitate the person concerned and the judicial body acting on social reports of vulnerability, i.e. the suspension or the temporary adjournment of the proceedings. These reports will need to have the public document character, and the necessary elements will be recorded that believe that if the launch is carried out they could violate the phone and recognized rights for which it does the residential exclusion. Thus, the reports would have to record the managements carried out to facilitate the relocation of the affected persons, the aids provided to guarantee their rights and, finally, the deadlines set for all applications. Here is a feasible way to establish synergies between jutjats, social services and public administrations to avoid situations like Badalona, which we approached in this room, where all connections and all preventive procedures to guarantee the right of people failed. Finally, we believe that the project should be addressed – we believe it is untimely – one of the problems that at this time has a major distortive effect on people's right to access habitat. We're talking about the phenomenon that occurred before the abusive loguers. We don't ignore the difficulty, do we? Neither the fact that it would be possible to reform in depth the Law of urban leases, which goes beyond the competences of this Parliament, beginning with the extremely short terms of the loguers, which are one of the most perverse effects that act in speculative dynamics. Obviously, it is necessary to develop a public housing park of logger, much reduced to our home and with no capacity of influence on the market. The same way we have to apply policies of help and we have to mobilize empty habitats for social emergencies, but that is insufficient. We need to find a way, some way to stabilize the prices of the logger market, today in levels that exceed the suns before the escalate of the real estate cylinder. And it is necessary to facilitate access to social sectors with a minimum disposable income, which should not be registered under the social or welfare rules. Without attending to this flank, we will hardly contain the housing emergency situation. To situate the problem and establish the notion of abuse would already be in itself, in our parent, a remarkable step forward. We propose a certain definition: we consider as such the logger of an urban estate destined for habitual habitation that supposes for the lease an economic effort greater than 30_per_cent of the middle of the entrances of the lars of the municipality where it is located. And we contribute concrete: that this habitat is registered or likely to be registered in the register of empty habitats, or occupied habitats without enabling title, or that it is found in an area of taneig and retraction, or when the logger follows the concerted in these conditions for great possessions of habitats. We can discuss the focus, we can give it another treatment, but we can't take away – we think – the problem. You are here, in summary, who are the essential modifications that we would seek to introduce in the course of the processing of this bill to which, I repeat, we give our full support. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.180.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.181.0	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Counselors, deputies and deputies... does that work? I don't have time in front, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.182.0	Deputy, yes, it works, it works.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.183.0	Perfect, thank you. One day ago, and there are some Members and Members of this House who are, in that committee, the Committee on Welfare and Families, a representative of the Red Cree, the Director General of the Red Cree, came to present this annual report to us. Every year they do it..., and they deal with the situation of the most vulnerable people, because the most vulnerable are those who, among others, go to the Red Creed. And there was very interesting information, because we found that the same people who went to Red Cree claimed that they had problems paying for food, paying for sanitary products, paying for schoolmen... and only a small percentage, significant, and therefore dramatic, but only a small percentage of the goddess that could not pay for housing overall. This I do not want to say because it is a minor issue, on the contrary, I am absolutely aware of the absolute drama that it means for a family to launch it. But I do say this because I asked the representative of the Red Cree in that committee: "Why do so few people come out here that they cannot afford housing, if they are the ones who are most in need and who come to the Red Cree? And he said to me, "Look, because the people are the first to try to pay – the first to try to pay – is the llar, the housing. What he's trying to save anyway is home. Then think: "I'll find someone who can give me food, I'll find someone who pays me the food grant, I'll find someone who can help me with the hygiene products. But home is the first area of security. And so, I thought, I remembered one thing – and they ask me to finish the argument –: "The nuclear import that housing has. More than housing, home, home, as a guarantee of physical integrity and personal and family identity for people. No, it's not housing, this term is..., the house as close as it is to intimacy, as it is to space of dignity, and that is why it is understood that the Constitution, in its article 47, says that all Spaniards have a right to a decent and adequate habitation, and that is why it is understood that, legitimately, many people ask whether public authorities have done enough to guarantee to what the constitutional text says and which follows: "Public powers promote the necessary conditions and establish the relevant standards so that they can do this right. And I think this is a legitimate question, even though the answers we can give are diverging about which is the best way to guarantee this right to housing. From the Catalan People's Party we want to defend and always defend the right to property, but I think that it has to be done in a broad sense, that is to say, right to property is right to dispose, the owners, of what they have earned legitimately. But it is also right of those who are not owners to be able to access the property. This is the double sense of right to property. In other words, legal security to preserve what has been legitimately won and, at the same time, social and economic tools because everyone can access ownership with their work and effort. And we do not forget, therefore, and Mr. Rabell was commenting on it now, which recognizes Article 33 of the Constitution, even though in one way a little diffuse, which is the social function of property. But that's got to be good – it's got to be good. And I am pleased that this time, the General Councillor, the General has chosen a tool to help the citizens, not to seek conflict and violence with the State and with the Constitutional Court and, therefore, to seek political propaganda. This is the way, I mean, to think and legislate in depth how we can improve this right, and not legislate to seek conflicts and increase victimism before the CT. You know – you know – that the law of 2015 would end up in the Constitution and it would be suspicious; you knew it perfectly, and they didn't care, and we can suspect that, after all, they were looking for it. [[remorse of the voice]] in order to stir up the conflict. Or at least they took advantage of it, and a lot. And if I ever want to explain to them who came to see us these days to see if we can change... because some came from convergence governments of the previous legislature. Home, it's okay now! And maybe they won't see us again, but from the register we'll publish now it'll be recorded. So, do it right, do useful things. We think they're on the right track, on the right track, on the right track, on the right track, on the right track, on the right track, on the right track, on We bet on the mediation procedure before residential risk situations. I have a serious doubt about the composition of the courts or mediation boards; to me they seem a little unbalanced, for example, there is only a representation of the entities financed before thirty other representatives, between other two unions. I, the unions..., now, in some case known to Madrid, we have learned that they are also in this of the 'living, housing, in case of social promotion, but then, well, it ends as it ends, doesn't it? It seems to me well, too, the procedure of temporary expropriation, exceptional and compensated. You're funny, aren't you? We went to a joseantonian law of year 56 to regulate the procedure of expropriation. Let's say it clearly, and it seems good to us – let's say it clearly. The bank and especially the boxes controlled by policies are responsible for the financial crisis and the situation that many families have experienced, and therefore they must also be responsible for the rescue and recovery of these families. And, therefore, we can demand and we must demand a social return. The boxes – and before the deputy of Ciutadans gave it – and the joints, left and right, that speculated with the soil, that they ran with the soil, that even did other things with the price of the soil, and of which no one spoke. And we should also remember that many citizens – and I don't, because I don't... – also benefited from the mortgage boom. I mean, the situation is complex. But the boxes, therefore, are co-responsible for the situation, the crisis, and must be co-responsible for recovery and social rescue. But we do things thinking of the common good, really, and not propaganda. I have, for example, serious doubts about Article 17 – about Article 17 – which requires banking entities to collect persons they wish to dislodge. Because I would say: "Let us not confound plans. That is to say, the obligation to withdraw is from the administrations, and we do not make the private agents who are responsible for the public sector. Say, the benches, listen'm... [[Funnel veils]] - No, no, no, No, no, We expropriate temporarily and compensate, we ask for mediation, but now, that each one assumes responsibility, because if not interference can harm everyone. Let's say it clearly, escort, legal insecurity, impossibility..., and I know that it's not easy to say it and no one will say it, even though almost everyone thinks so, but you know that the absolute impossibility of launching, impossibility, what it does and what it would do is to disproportionately raise mortgage prices and prevent many families from accessing mortgages and mortgages. Therefore, with good intent or propagandistic intent, we would end up producing exactly the opposite effect, which very many families cannot access to the right to housing. Therefore, we celebrate this law, we thank the Generality for the way it has done, the willingness of dialogue with all groups, with entities, and we take the real measures to guarantee this right, which is to help people who are unburdened for the situation, help them intensively and truly, and at the same time provoke and seek to lower mortgage prices and mortgages. And this is done with legal certainty and increasing the housing offer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.184.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.185.0	Thank you, President. Members, she said, in the general policy debate, in the PRs presented and every time we have dealt with the issue of housing, it is either in full or in committee: the housing emergencies that today affect thousands of families in Catalonia require decisive action by the Government of the Generality. In the face of the frontal attack that the Government of the Spanish State has perpetrated with the suspension, in order to preserve the financial system, of the Law 24/2015, a norm that, to remember it and we will always remember, it has been the result of the will of the people of Catalonia expressed through an ILP, endorsed by the unanimity of this Parliament, which, beyond the approval of the new law, seek to fulfill the same objectives that the law suspects, serves to preserve the right to the habitat of the people and reduce the important number of empty habitats existing in Catalonia and to enhance the accessible logger. It is necessary to define a full route – as has been said by different spokespersons – broad, consensus-based on the actions to be taken in the field of housing that is driven in Catalonia in its own years. Now, no one escapes, but the law that is now passed on to the totality has an appeal that not only justifies it, but conditions it strongly. His discussion, his entry into the process and, at last, his urgency are the fruit of what has saddened him on 24/2015, a law that had been shown to be very necessary, including in his short space of time, of appeal, had also proved effective, and that a court, immersed in a race of political judicialization and enthused to put up with the sovereignty of this Parliament, has sentenced him to death. A fact that has not only frustrated the best intentions of the law, but has also left behind a 20_per_cent of the Catalan population at risk of poverty, and therefore at risk, too, of housing emergence, social emergence that today suffers thousands of citizens from this country. The unfortunate appeal that the Constitutional Court, in its Croatian against this Parliament, has donated to the Law 24/2015 is also the unfortunate appeal of political forces represented in this Parliament ; political forces that despite having given recollection to the law, despite having filled the mouth of social sensitivities, despite having said that all a follow-up of measures aimed at giving social response and urgent needs, today they have no prospect or shame of having participated politically and directly in the suspension of the law. I have done and feel comfortable before this touch of thanks to the Law 24/2015 for a very simple, very prosaic thing, for them; I have done simply to obstruct, to retaliate, to prevent any sobriety of this Parliament. This is, among other things, his great concern, his great delusion, his great motivation. And you can do good laws, girls, what's wrong with the others? It's just that we did this in a way that we didn't get dropped. No, no... what we have before us is a big black hole that's going through everything, political coherences attached. We understand, however, that Parliament..., and this we have expressed on various occasions, a parliament moving towards a breakup, should not abide by the judicial judgment of the Constitutional Court. The Parliament of Catalonia, like the chamber of legitimate representation of Catalan sovereignty, should have ratified the Law 24/2015, because we understand that the articles of the Law arising from the ILP's will, approved in July 2015, is renouncing. And this attitude of firmness before the adverse resolutions of a court that has lost all credibility for us, this position cannot be considered either extravagant or strange, nor goes to this chamber. In fact, this same chamber, year 34, approved the Law of Contracts of Contreu, which was then annulled by the Constitutional Guarantee Court, and did so by approving the same text in full, point by point, article by article, still challenging the authority of the court. And it's this position, which some may consider – and, in fact, I'm sure they will consider it – a strange ideological position, elongated from reality, etcetera. It turns out that, for us, it is the only one that allows us to look at the new law, the one that is presented today to the totality, with certainly displays of credibility. We believe that not giving for loss the nullified dispositions for the Constitutional Court is not only an act of loyalty to the ILP's intentions, a support to the promoters, but also the credibility mark from which we think we must allow ourselves to see how we work this new law that today presents itself and activate all those that, for reasons of imperatives, we cannot leave in the covet. For the CUP that the Constitutional Court annulled from 24/2015 are not four questions that we can solve easily nor that we remain superintelligent to do it differently and the Constitutional Court will not see us, nor activate laws that we already have, that have well activated, nor make them new. The trumpet that the Constitutional Court has thrown at us is as hard as the magnitude of the tragedy that its action has produced on important social sectors of our community. And that's why our position, manifested in the two summits of Palau, through the delegations presented to the pre-project of the law, went in this sense, with the will to express and defend what we believe to be still today, we think, are important elements, key elements to give response to the object and the wishes of the same law and to the aspirations of all those who gave this and life to the ILP, citizens and promoters. In fact, our attachments, they see those from other entities and other groups, are not so different. Allegations carried the segell, the exhibition of which we consider important and necessary, and we are concerned that the law that is presented today may not contemplate: incorporating the definition of great affection; which ones are we doing for cancellation of the debt? How do we establish the mandatory cessation of empty habitats? Why is the other one complicated and expensive, who's going to pay for it? How do we mobilize the empty housing stock? ; how do we give social use to what the financial system has converted into speculative currency with criminal gain and, more importantly, with debt of all? How do we protect people from denunciation and over-indebtedness in a framework of crisis, social insecurity and hard work? What is the legal framework that we give to the gatherings in order to face a reality that punishes, as the Councillor has said, forty families denouncing each day in our country? We take part in the need and urgency, the need and the urgency to put in the hands of the government and of the joint instruments in order to be able to address effectively and as quickly as possible the housing emergency and the poor energy, according to the democratic mandate expressed for this Parliament on September 2015. And that's why we agreed, like most participants, with the summit called for by the government, and to endorse an urgent job, and, finally, we applauded it, this urgency. Now, allow me, counsel, to tell you that the objectives of the summit have also had on the part of the council, we think, a very particular or skewed view of what was manifested there. We continue to worry about how we concretely and how we can resolve issues that we consider..., are not contemplated in the new law and that we think that they continue to be essential in order to achieve the best possible response to the housing emergency, and we have, we have done so, observing deficiencies in the same law of 24/2015, that we think must be resolved in what we present today in transit. In view of the new law on the protection of the right to housing of persons at risk of social exclusion, we want to focus on the essential points for the municipality, so that we can deploy the new law with guarantees, both for the local administration and for those affected by residential exclusion in mortgages. And these concerns and needs for urgent response to the housing emergency, shared by many and unfortunately fruit of a certainty of what is going on in our country, are those that have accompanied us and are accompanying us at all times and have motivated the appreciation around what has happened, both with the 24/2015 and in the position that we have maintained at the summits, as the reasons that justified the allegations that we have presented to the preliminary project. Concerns and reasons, the same ones that today accompany us and motivate us, of course of understanding and our position before the present project and its short journey... – but we believe it necessary –, parliamentary journey. Fighting against denunciations does not allow for delay, it is certain, but neither oblivious, and the CUP wants to be part of the urgency and response, but without pending for king. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.186.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Mr. Marc Solsona, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.187.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. Well, as the Councillor has already explained in her intervention, and as has been said many times, already, during this debate, to talk about this law it is inevitable that we put into context why this new law and the objective purpose of this proposal. That is why we have to ask ourselves: if the Constitutional Court, at the instance of the Government in function of the People's Party, did not suspend article 2, paragraph 2, articles 3, 4 and 5 and of this, point 1, 2, 3, 4 and 9, the additional provision, the transitional provision second, first and second, in the famous article of paragraph 7, and the third final provision of Law 24/2015, that law which, too, has been said, was approved unanimously for this plenary, would we be speaking today of this law? Of course we've all said no. So, if the answer is no, we're saying that this new law arises as the answer and as the rebuttal to a decision of the Constitutional Court and to replace and fill in the shortcomings that the suspicious articles do and make to the Law 24/2015. This new law also arises as the answer and consent obtained for all agents and actors at the different summits convened for the same President of the Generality on May 3 and July 29. What agreements, commitments and intentions were expressed in those summits? First of all, therefore, create a working group with the promoter group of the ILP, with the municipalist entities, the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia, the Catalan Association of Municipalities, the Assembly of Barcelona, the Collège d'Avocats de Catalunya, under the coordination, logically, of the Board of Governors, Public Administrations and Habitats. What's the point? Achieving a legislative text that supplants the suspicion and that, at times, it is not questionable and, therefore, it is not a second time. Therefore, it had to be a text that was legally very solid. Another object that was left, that this..., and it was said at that time, that this should be as fast as possible and at that time it was said to be done in one reading. Other arrangements that he came to. So, open a plethora of allegations so that you can speed up the process. With whom did they continue to express themselves in the two summits? U, on the part of the local world, that we could not be longer without a tool that you allow us to act before the residential emergence. On the part of the promoter entity, that did not satisfy the 100_per_cent of the result of the proposal, but that this non-satisfaction or non-support did not denote a frontal reboil in this proposal that is presented today. And, on the part of all parliamentary groups, the compromise to do so quickly and with the maximum consensus. That is why, I suppose, today, in this debate of totality there is no discussion of totality. But here allow me to make a temporary statement, a question of calendars. On the 20th of April of this year 2016 the representatives of the promoter entity of this ILP moved to Madrid, to the Congress of Deputies, and they obtained a document signed for all the parliamentary groups of the Congress, less the People's Party, that gave the following [[the orator shows a document to the chamber]] – and here we have the signed document that is also stuck to the PAH website – says: "First, publicly defend the Law 24/2015 and the need for this to deal with housing and against the poor energy. Secondly, to require the Government of the State not to appeal to the Constitutional Court and, moreover, to take into account that it is a government that is in operation. I third... – and I literally read what the parliamentary groups are going to sign – « to give up and withdraw the appeal in the event of forming a government and in the event that the government in office has brought it before the Constitutional Court, committing itself not to hinder its total development. Oh, my God! That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, there is already government in Spain; moreover, it is a minority government. If all the signatory groups of this document on April 20th complete their words, today's debate would be a non-existent debate. Therefore, I work in those groups that ally and that have allowed me to facilitate a minority government of the People's Party, whether or not it is intended to complete with the word and with the signature of this document in which they are committed, if there was a government, to the fact that they can withdraw the recourse to the Constitutional. And I would especially like, for example, to the Citizens' Group, because..., Mrs De la Calle Member – and following the song she made follow in her intervention – if those who facilitate a government of the People's Party have some responsibility in this matter, what would the answer be? "Yes. Therefore, you do not accuse so much, because you say: "I accuse. No, no, no, I didn't accuse you that much. We don't ask him... we just ask him: act and follow, because... Therefore, here you have a golden opportunity, you and the groups that have facilitated Mr Rajoy's government, to act directly. So you'll see. In any case, I'll leave you here. Then, also, tomorrow by chance..., I suppose you must be lucky, tomorrow there will be debate in this Parliament a motion of the People's Party on support policies for families. And one question, sometimes: what are we doing, right? So, if we talk about decent housing or decent housing, as we said before, is it a family support policy or not? If to give front or give quick and effective responses to emergencies and residential emergencies, are they or are they not support policies to families? Home, I think so. And, plus, I'd say more, I think it is, plus, in capital letters. Or, for example, whether mediation to resolve debt-over-indebtedness concerns are or are not support policies for families. Or I would say more: whether the subject of compulsory social logger or compulsory cessation are or are not fears that they may or may not influence the support of families. He spoke of this three themes because these are the three themes that..., or the three instruments that the People's Party government called on us and then the Constitutional Court suspended. We have, then, some practical example under Article 17: if the law is passed today, a funded entity could not urge the denunciation of a vulnerable family that could not afford it the logger and would have to make it a social logger for three years– Article 17, practical examples. That's what we're talking about. We know, therefore, that if we make a law, a new law to partially replace the suspicious joint, we cannot accurately, literally reproduce it. This is why we have had serious difficulties at the time of finding concepts that are the same, but that are not legally the same, because if they are the same we will fall into the same error all folds; we would be cheating on the lonely. Therefore, we have found it difficult, for example, to find, replace or look to make a new focus on the theme of the great masters. And that's why we have joined the register of empty habitats, where there are great tenors, financial entities, the Sareb, and also other great heritage foundations. A new law with which, in change, we could pass, if approved, from 72 to 234 municipalities of accredited demand, which supposes that it expands the network of municipalities and, indirectly, also the scope of application of the tax, finally saved, on empty floors. Or, for example, this expansion of the network of municipalities would also allow for the application of tanteig and retraction in the transmission of housing from mortgage execution. Also in the annexation process it was possible to accept that the expropriations of the use of the habitation are four to two years, and not three years, as foreseen by the cessation of Article 7 in the old – old –..., in the suspended part of the 24/2015. We are very aware, because we have not spoken in different forums, that it is no retreat but the environment, the object of the law is to supplant the suspicion and that, therefore, we understand that it does not deal with issues such as occupations, which affect the municipalities so much and concern us, but that in the mandate of the summits it does not explicitly say this. And, therefore, apart from the competitive complexity, so we didn't find that..., it wouldn't help us to be quick. And there are other forums created because this is possible. The Law 24/2015 also did not protect the occupied housing of financial entities, and in these cases they were not obliged to logue social obligatories. We also agree, logically, that we must go further and that we must also regulate the subject of the logger, and also the subject of the abuse logger. That's why both the Barcelona Assembly and you, Mr.Rabell, and Grupo Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it's Pot, so they're always in this fabric in the last few days. And we say that maybe this isn't the place to do it now, because if we want to be quick, quick, and a good internal and substantive debate, we understand that sometimes this isn't compatible with the executive will to do things quickly. Just remember, and at the same time, that the expropriation is not recovered with this law, but that it was recovered in Decree 1/2015, in its article number 4, and that the concept of the social function of the property, let us say, that this was the motivation that allowed us to justify the imposition of the tax on empty floors, the social function of the property. Therefore, it is not here that we recover it; let us say that we are doing, cross-sectionally in the different areas, applying all folded. Obviously, we are still afraid to develop, but allow me, in the short time that remains, a final reflection. We are starting a parliamentary process to improve the law, a process which, in principle, we are all agreed to be brief. We are concerned that a better amount of the law that goes beyond the gene that has generated it may encourage and, in the worst case scenario, may be reversed. We believe that the current text largely responds to the objective for which it was created. And from the positive attitude and the will to seek agreement and consensus they ask, as a deputy but also as a mayor, that we may have once and for all, already, this new tool to be able to help the people; that the parliamentary opportunity that you see there does not become inaction, and that the action, which is the approval of this law, responds to the need of the people and that the administrations claim. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.188.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, Mrs. De la Calle, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.189.0	By contradictions of MP Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.190.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.191.0	Yes; the Member has commented that Citizens did not present an initiative of the dation in payment here, in this Parliament. You can see that the citizens' proposal can be found in the official newsletter on 17 January 2011. It is true that in parallel he also presented one of the Initiative Group and the other of the Republican Left of Catalonia, and it was raised jointly to..., it was processed jointly, and in the end a proposal came out to raise it to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies. And who blocked this proposal in the Congress of Deputies and has blocked it on several occasions has been the Socialist Party. Thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.192.0	The debate is over, and as there are no submissions, the Bill of Rights Protection Measures to the Housing of Persons at Risk of Residential Exclusion continues its processing. [[Election law proposal of Catalonia (debate of totality)]] [[202-00023/11]] And now we move to the sixth point of the order of the day, which is: debate of totality on the Proposition of the Electoral Law of Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules, he presented the initiative, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, Mrs Marta Ribas. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.193.0	Yes, thank you, President. You're the one who used to push.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.194.0	Yes, calm- yes, calm-la.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.195.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. [[The joker laughs.]] MPs, MPs, today we're doing a little more in a long, long, tortuous history and, for the moment, very little success in trying to hold elections in Catalonia. Since the Statute of 79 instructed Parliament to approve an electoral law and to regulate the system in a transitional arrangement, it has been thirty-seven years; that is why it says "long, long, long history, practically like my life. The question, which ended its work in 2010, was unable to send a text to the House of Commons. The one from the last legislature as a minimum closed a text and it was hard to vote and to debate the plenary of the Parliament, but it was not a complete text, it was a text of law without an electoral system; and it was successful, but with elections at the gates, already announced, without consensus and with few aims to have the time of processing to get to the right place, as it ended up feeling. Now, for the first time we can start processing a full text, a text with an electoral system inclusive, and with the legislature ahead, or we hope, that there is a legislature ahead, because it can be processed and discussed'scom cal' and because it can be effective in the own Catalan elections. And, in fact, this is our goal, that of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot: that the own Catalan elections are already celebrated with its own electoral law, with modern electoral law, adapted to the needs, wills and requirements of the people of Catalonia. The law itself, the law of the 21st century, the law appropriate to requests for more transparency, more control, easier access to the vote and paper, also, and the incidence of each voter. More democracy, in short. I would like to make a recon, a little recon, so much to all the people who have worked in all these thirty-seven years of electoral intent, especially to the experts who came to the Councilman's office in 2007 to draw up a report of recommendations, many of which are incorporated in this proposal that we are debating again today; to the promoters of that popular legislative initiative for an electoral law in Catalonia that in 2009 gathered noranta_mil signatures from citizens and citizens and that we hope this time again in this legislature can also be subsumed, right? , in those proposals, in the processing of this law, and also to all those institutions and entities which in all these attempts have made proposals and multiple reports, and, obviously, to the Members and Members who have worked there – forgive me, basically Members, because we have been very few Members –, who have worked in the Electoral Law during all these years, and allow me a special thanks to Deputy Jaume Bosch. And I'm going to the grass. The novelty or difference of this text respects what we have been discussing in full in the last legislature especially is the electoral system; therefore, I want to extend this point to me. The text that arrived in May 2015 was a very good basis for an agreement; we recognize it and so we reflect it with the proposal that we are putting forward now, because everything that was agreed on in the joint submission is back in that text. But, as we say, there was no electoral system. Already at that time, at that time, as a parliamentary group for the United Left and Initiative, it was made a statement to the totality with alternative text to introduce a proposal for a system; a proposal which, we believe, responds better to what Catalonia needs and to which the Statute, the existing Statute, which says that it must be a system of maximum proportionality and, at the same time, adequate representation of the territories. Today as in Catalonia Yes, we can continue to believe that the proposal of this system is the best one to give answer to these two bases of what the electoral system must be: proportionality and territoriality. It is a system that sets the table to these two elements, these two values, and that both are given a good answer. That's why we're defending her and proposing her on this bill of law. It's the system based on the Dutch model. It is a national recount; therefore, maximum proportionality, all votes are equal. But, at the same time, vegetal circumscriptions, with correctness to avoid the fall of the territorial pesso and, if it can be, even increase it. The maximum proportionality is that the single, national countdown does not have the effect of the current system, of distortion, with provincial countdown, but rather that it does, as I said, that all votes are equal, among all applications that have exceeded 3_per_cent at the national level. In technical data, following Gallagher's proportionality index, in which a zero is perfect proportionality and a hundred is complete disproportionateity, the current system, the current one, has an index of 4.63. The system we plant would have an index of 1.5. It's an enlarging, three-point-greater proportionally compared to this Gallagher's calculus technical index. Speaking in silver: perfi, the vote of one person from Barcelona, from the province of Barcelona, would be as valuable as that of one person from the province of Tarragona, Girona or Lleida. Currently, a person's vote in the province of Barcelona is worth half that of a person in the province of Lleida, or the same: the vote of a person in Berga is worth half that the vote of a person in Solsona, for the fact of living in two different provinces. On one side, therefore, this important, essential and, I believe, highly demanded element for citizenship and for many of the parliamentary groups that we are in this chamber, for years and years, of maximum proportionality. On the other hand, territorial representation, which we must not lose in this sense; on the contrary: if it can be, improve it. The territorial representation would be achieved from considering the vogueries as demarcations in which the parties would submit the candidacy. Therefore, the citizenship of each veteran would vote for a list of candidates and candidates of his or her own and, once assigned the escons that correspond to each party with this national recount, these would be redistributed according to the vote obtained for each party for each veteran. One schooner would be awarded each time the party has exceeded 3_percent of the votes, and the rest will be distributed according to the Hare quota, that of major remnants. Therefore, more representation in the territories, less for the most populated regions, especially the area of Barcelona; more for Central Catalonia, more for the Ebre, more for the High Pyrenees and the Aran especially. This has an effect, of course: that with the votes of Barcelona, the deputies of the territory will learn. Yeah, so what? - And what? We prefer this to continue defending that there is a second citizen in time to vote in this country, and that there are many more members and territorial deputies in this chamber, because this would be the effect of this system that we defend. Moreover, we would be doing so with a system of territorial division of vegueries, which is a system of consensus in this country, of consensus in this chamber, and we do not have to invent rare things. And besides, respect the system, three fundamental proposals also for us, which we include in this proposal of law: the unlocking of lists, so that the citizenry can express its preference for candidates or candidates in the same list; the lists with zipper, home-grant or home-grant, because we do not lose, but we go all the way to the point where it has already advanced and that there is still so much to make up for it, and because, besides, we need to be aware, the unlocking of lists can get us back into a subject of gender equality and, therefore, some extra element we have to put in order to compensate for it, and that the candidates and candidates must be counted in a community in which we live or live. I said that I would be in the electoral system, but obviously I don't want to stop talking about what electoral administration is. It is what will certainly sound less new to them, because most of it is what we have already agreed on in a joint stand in the last legislature and what we have made our own, in the consensus that it came to, and which is 95_percent of the law, and which is really important, and it is also really an important re-claim to the electoral process that we can do with this part of Electoral Administration. I highlight seven main elements of novelty. On access to the right to vote, with the figure of advance vote from the municipalities, from the assemblies, under the custody of the municipal secretaries, thus complementing the vote by mail, which is a truly felicitous system and which is of state regulation. We also improve the access of the right to vote from the introduction of a possibility to enable mobile ballot boxes to go to seek the vote at hospitals, residences or prison centres, so many people who can't go to vote, and in centres with a lot of people, right? I'd have a certain sense that there were mobile ballot boxes. Or with the guarantee of equal access to persons with various disabilities, both by voting, and to their access, in full autonomy, as to the secret of voting, as to the information of the campaign. For example, programs with easy reading. Or opening the door to the electronic vote too, but whenever there are the maximum guarantees of voting secrecy. Another element of the set that I would like to highlight: the creation of the Catalan electoral union to end with the anomaly that the Catalan elections are held by the Central Electoral Board, and that we are the only autonomous community in Spain that does not have its own electoral union; a union that would be more modern than the one that has existed so far in other places, also, obviously, with the central, with the Central Electoral Board, with three judges appointed from the High Court of Justice of Catalonia and three professors of political science, law or sociology, who are elected by Parliament. A third element, the unique plot of paper and electoral information of all parties with parliamentary representation to all voters, an important economic savannah in each of the elections we could make with this measure. A_quart, limit election entries and expenses and increase control of accounts with much more transparency. Five element, obligation of parties to withdraw the propaganda after the campaign, and if they don't do it – and the assemblies have to do it – this is out of the electoral grant that the parties have afterward. If element, to overcome the system of electoral blocs in the information of the public communication media about the campaign, arriving to the maximum of the limits allowed by LOREG, and which applied in the later general elections, but, curiously, who had won the previous ones we defended that there are no electoral blocs in the communication media. We don't want it to be because of who has won every time the elections to be able to remove the blocks, we want it to be by law and we want it to be because of this barbarity that appears in our communication media and that goes against the right to the information of the citizenry. And a_set element respects electoral administration, and last. We understand that the dedication of Members of Parliament must be complete, making it compatible to be a senator and to be a deputy and to be a deputy, and it also provides that Members of Parliament exercising other duties and having this compatibility must renounce part of their remuneration in the manner that has been regulated since the Catalonian Parliament. Conclusion.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I believe that this Parliament cannot afford to return to the end of a legislature – a legislature which, moreover, many have defined as exceptional – as all the previous ones. If it is an exceptional legislature, as at least we do different things; we approve, by the way, a Catalan electoral law. But above all, what we cannot afford is not to give an answer via the electoral law to the need for democracy and its rules, and therefore also to the electoral process, which is what citizens ask of us. Catalonia is now the only autonomous community without electoral law. This is a fact that we should be ashamed of all the leaflets, especially those who want to talk about building state structures and a year after the elections had not yet planned to start the debate on an electoral law. That's why we pulled for the right, like the Catalonian Parliamentary Group Yes, it's Pot, and we made this proposal. Let's go to the model of state that we are going, which is what will decide it is citizenship in a reference, let's go to the model of state that we are going, we need an electoral law and we need to have made these debates and shut them down. These debates are, for an autonomous community or for a similar state, the ones about how to shake the system, as the people ask us, and also all this electoral process in each of the elections that we can make in Catalonia. The text that we are now proposing to discuss and begin processing in this chamber wants to be innovative, it wants to bet for the better of the democratic quality for the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia and to do so far beyond what the LOREG says and far beyond what the electoral laws of the rest of the autonomous communities of the State say, reaching the maximum of the margin that is allowed; margin that the others have not used so far and that we are sure and sure that the Parliament of Catalonia can be innovative in reaching these ends, up to these maximums, up to a better democracy, up to an appropriate law in the 21st century. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.196.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, for the defense of the totality presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.197.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we share the will of the Catalonian Group Yes, it is Pot and the concern, it is distressed, that Catalonia is the only community that in thirty-seven years has been unable to have its own electoral law. And Catalonia Yes, it can bring us today a bill for your debate in the plenary and its subsequent processing in ponència. But this proposal is not a proposal of any kind. This is a proposal that was debated a little more than a year ago in this same chamber, and, to be faithful to the reality of how things went, during the previous parliamentary term a joint ponència elaborates a text; this text, given the inability of the ponència to agree on an electoral system, makes a proposal of law, without an electoral system, that sign, to which the groups of Convergence and Union, Esquerra Republicana and Initiative for Catalonia, without an electoral system, are supporting, that is, maintaining the electoral system of the year 79, which is what is currently in force in the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia. Surprisingly, the very Initiative that subscribes to the proposal of the law that arises from the joint ponència presents a theme to the totality at its own proposal, including an electoral system, which is the proposal that today subjugates us to the consideration of the chamber the same Initiative for Catalonia. And in that debate the Socialist Party also presented a message to the totality with alternative text, which was a different electoral system – the one with Initiative was..., is the Dutch; the one with the PSC was the German, with fifty-night, if I have not hardly remembered, uninominal districts–, and the People's Party also presents an alternate text, a German model, with thirty-five uninominal districts. And he was put to the vote. And the People's Party voted in favour of the proposal for an Initiative for Catalonia, as an alternative to the proposal for Convergence and Esquerra to maintain an electoral law with the same electoral system. And why did Convergence and Esquerra stay in that position? So, because they were already doing well, because they were already interested in them, because, if you hadn't kept this electoral system from 79, today you couldn't keep the speech that the majority of members of this chamber is an independent majority, because if you approved the electoral model of Initiative, PSC or PP, this chamber would have a different composition and there wouldn't be a majority of independent members, who do not represent a social majority of the Catalan society. And this is authentically the problem of the debate on the electoral law, which there are some groups who consider that the current electoral system for their interests is good for them. And, therefore, we can hardly change the opinion of these groups. We didn't give up – we didn't give up. I think that the questions or the question that you must be asking now is: "And why if the People's Party does more than a year ago gave support to the proposal of the Electoral Law of Initiative for Catalonia - Greens today presents and defends a goal to the totality of the same law proposal? Very simple: because of the electoral system, the rest of the law's proposal is not initiative, it is of all the parliamentary groups of this chamber that we prepared a proposal in a joint and consensual way, that we would be more or less agreed, that we would share more or less, but we worked on it all. And, therefore, it is not a proposal for an Initiative; it is a proposal for a joint proposal, it is a proposal for the assembly of groups in the chamber. And, therefore, we understand and understand that Initiative, its heretics, Catalonia Yes, it is I can, today, deserve..., to the benefit of inventory, as Mr. Coscubiela says, deserve to Facebook: a touch. We gave him a stump. So, consider yourself... that we've given him the toc. And given this toe, Madam President, I announce that our group withdraws the message to the totality, and, therefore, we will enter into the debate of an electoral law as we have done whenever this issue has been debated in this Parliament. All right. That said, indeed, the proposition of the law, and with the sole exception of Title III, was quite agreed upon in this joint submission. Now, not all aspects of this part, I insist, expel the third title, joy of our support, joy of our complacency. To put three examples... four examples. A first, in relation to the Electoral Administration: although there were initial proposals that suggested that the composition of the Electoral Administration had a greater predominance of non-legal persons in relation to legal persons, we have maintained since the first moment that we understood that there was to be a greater representation of the legal sphere than of the non-legal sphere, basically because of its specialization in the tasks that the electoral union had to carry out. It came to a consensus text that there was a match of legal and non-judicial members. We continue to defend that the legal part, the judicial part, must hold greater than the non-judicial part. Two aspects that we have already said on many occasions, as at least they are not well defined in the proposal of the law that came out and in the proposal of the law that presents itself today, which is that of the early vote, as is to be this early vote, if in the joints under the custody of the municipal secretaries..., but which guarantees of control there is in relation to this early vote. It's not quite defined with the law. According to the question – we believe that it is also important – the mobile ballot boxes. If it does not seem to us that there are mobile ballot boxes, but it does seem to us that, with the existence of mobile ballot boxes, there is discrimination of voters. All voters – in fact, the vote is universal – must tend to have a mobile ballot box, not just those who are in hospitals, not just those who are in residential centers. She said a year ago: "Mrs. Pepeta, who saw her home alone and who cannot move from home and who needs assistance, also has the right to bring her home urn. Therefore, we do not agree that there is a system to facilitate mass voting and, on the other hand, there is no such facility to facilitate one-person voting. We also doubt the compatibility of these voting methods in other elections. Do not forget that the Electoral Law of Catalonia serves to regulate elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, and if there is an election contest, we would say to the citizen: "So, myri, for municipal elections you have to vote in this way and for elections to the Parliament you have to vote in this other way. Therefore, it does not seem logical to us that different voting modes can coexist depending on the type of election to which the citizenry is subject. And one last... I'd say it's not an objection, but it's a finding, Mrs. Ribas, and you're used to referring to it usually and today it's referred to again, that it's related to the electoral blocs. The problem of electoral blocs is not a function of who won the previous elections; the problem of electoral blocs is not a function of the electoral law; the problem of electoral blocs is a function of the directions of public communication media, which are the ones to make the proposals for ordering electoral information. You have set as an example these past general elections. The election law was not approved and they were able to do so. But I can put it, for example, other choices before, because there was some direction from the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation that had proposed a certain line and that particular line was followed. So, that's the point. But then, too, the issue with respect to the electoral blocs is: we continue to analyze how each time a system that tries to respect the right to information of communication media works. Therefore, they do not rely on the electoral law. For what it does to the electoral system, we find ourselves very comfortable with Catalonia's proposal Yes, it is Pot today, the Initiative for Catalonia - the Greens of the past year – we find ourselves very comfortable – : unique recount, circumscribed forever... Well, that won't be the problem. We would prefer provinces. That will not be the problem for us. Recount alone; therefore, here we remain with that which unites us and not with that which separates us. You say: unblocked lists and zippered list to go to bet. You know we don't have quotas and we keep it: we don't have quotas. Now, what you're proposing is incompatible with gambling. Well, that's what I'm talking about. You explain it quite well in your proposal. What you're looking for is the bet of candidatures. Home, yes, with the zip lists they get the match of the candidatures, but maybe it wouldn't be more than a wide range of sights and looking for the match of the representation of the citizenry. Then it's incompatible. He led you to say to the citizen: "Escoltin, at the time of voting, if they vote unblocked, do not vote only men or do not vote only women. I vote for a man, a woman, vote for a man, vote for a woman, vote for a man, vote for a woman... Therefore, it seems to us quite incompatible with the proposal you are making. And finally, the proposal for candidates to be screened for demarcation. And you justify it with saying: "Avoid the fantasy candidatures that are given to municipal elections. They will not avoid it, because the election law serves for elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, not for municipal elections. And on the other hand, the relationship to the territory is not measured solely and exclusively by where that candidate for a Member is listed; it can reflect on many other things: where that Member is arrested. And if you work in a particular vegueria or province different from the one you live in, can't you choose a place? And if your records are in a certain circumstance, you can't opt in that circumstance and you have to opt in another circumstance, which is where you're listed? They're discriminating. Now, I assure you: no such disagreements, for our part, will motivate us to close ourselves to the fact that there is an electoral law. All flexibility on the part of our group. They ask them that, as we assess their proposal for an electoral system, they also make the effort that, under these same criteria, they evaluate the proposals for an electoral system that we will present to them from the People's Party and that I am sure they will present them from the Socialist Party, because I believe they have common objectives that go exactly in the same line. Now, now the advance to all of you: what we will not do from our parliamentary group is give support to an electoral law that does not have an electoral system, because this will continue exactly the same as thirty-seven years ago, and to do that, we are not available. Therefore, I understand, Madam President, that the speech to the totality of our parliamentary group gave the attention that we wanted to give to the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, it is withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.198.0	Okay. Thank you very much, honourable Member. I think that if the congressman has withdrawn the message to the full, maybe he won't need it anymore, right? Because it was the return to the puzzle, but it took it away; I understand. [[Marta Ribas Frías asks to speak.]] Two minutes for that, huh? Because, of course, I understand that it's the return to the puzzle and the People's Party has removed it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.199.0	I'll be very brief, President. Especially aggravate the withdrawal of the emena to the totality. I think it's nice, I think it's a waste that all of us are saying that, as I was saying to the beginning, today we're doing a little more to the story. So far we have not arrived, that we begin the process, the processing of an electoral law with an electoral system, and now what I would ask, if you please, to all the Members and Members, to all the parliamentary groups and, obviously, who will be on the part of each parliamentary group in charge of this law, is that we are in the presence of why the situation has failed so far, why we are in these circumstances that we are now, why this long and crooked way from the 79's has not reached the port until now and why we do not repeat the same passes again. The passes have been those of the electoral party, which have brought us until today, until today, that have not made it possible for there to be until now no agreement on the trunk of a law, such as the electoral system. And if until today we haven't changed the provisional system of 79, it's because during these thirty-seven years there have been some benefit games, which means there have been no other harm done. Because during these years we have seen the case of a party that won the elections in the name of votes but it was not first in the name of escons, and we are not talking here about any of the parties that we are in Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, because we have seen how there was one that always got more, always, less than the votes that were getting. And this has blocked the possibility, for thirty-seven years, that there is an electoral law in Catalonia. I believe that citizenship has put us today in the Parliament of Catalonia in very different circumstances. And most likely, in the own Catalan elections and what has been "seen" or what has been seen in this last electoral cycle is that it will still change the political landscape more. Therefore, these changes, this political earthquake that we are living in Catalonia, let us take advantage of it, please, Members and Members, to do what we have never been able to do, because now we can't take the electoral calculator when we make the system and plant what will happen to our own elections because no one knows it. This is, therefore, a system which is correlated with what citizens need, and especially with what the current Statute of Catalonia says: maximum proportionality and, at the same time, territorial representation. We do not lose piston with territorial representation; if it can be, we gain it and keep the maximum proportionality. All system proposals are deficient, all are better. We, before the end of the day, in this Parliament, and not just to re-establish a joint position, have taken the step towards re-establishing this text, part agreed with the rest of the groups – it was already – and part of a system that laid down, that we set up a determined parliamentary group, but that we believe that it is good and that, moreover, consensus can be reached. But, obviously, open to discussion, which can be improved because it is sure – it is still much better, both the part of electoral administration and the part of the electoral system, but let's get out – please, and, please, we really make an exceptional legislature in this sense, in this subject and make a Catalan electoral law and stop being the exception to the rest of Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.200.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Ribas. Next, the words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.201.0	Thank you, Madam President. Today is one of these days that you have to think about the strange truths of politics. In the United States the populism of Donald Trump wins, and in Catalonia, some who do not have enough majority to reform the Constitution, to amend the Statute of Catalonia, to make an electoral law, we find that they are already creating state structures to declare independence. There has been a statute in Catalonia since 1979, we have been forty years and there is no electoral law. Why? Basically because it suits some. Nationalist parties get their vote in certain areas; the law gives them a higher vote, a higher vote value in those areas. A law really close to the beginning« a person, a vote would have radically changed Catalan politics. A fair electoral law would have drawn a very different parliament than we have now. You, the deputies of Junts pel Si and the CUP, represent fewer citizens than the rest of the parties in the chamber. That means that exactly the same number of hundreds of thousands of citizens voted for this part of the chamber and, in addition, ten and a thousand more people who voted, not you, but Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, Ciutadans, the People's Party and the Socialist Party. And you have not had the humility to respect those citizens and others who also voted, one hundred and a thousand who voted for Union and which you do not take into account either. You act like you have a majority and you don't have it. You also despise everything you have built in previous generations, you despise the Statute of Catalonia, you despise a reconciliation effort in which the Catalans participate in making the 1978 constitution, you do not respect it, you do not respect any of that. All of this is challenged and done illegally by jumping the laws against most of the citizens you do not have. Laws... You do it against most Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards, the rest of the compatriots with whom we build all this. And how do you do it? Well, look, they do it thanks to the electoral system we have now. We do not have a Catalan electoral law, we have an electoral system that enables you to vote for things here and win, even though you do not have the votes of the majority behind you. When you have a fictitious majority in a parliament, based on an electoral system that gives you the right to rule and to decide laws, to have the decisive vote for the laws, to win the votes here, that the rest of the chamber, those who represent more citizens than you, let us give it for good, is precisely because of the democratic conviction that we must respect that law, that electoral system that gives you the majority of seats, even though you do not have the majority of votes. And we respect the law, which seems unfair to us, that we want to change it, that we are going to do it now, we are going to try, but you are doing it..., you are governing thanks to the respect that the rest of the Democrats have for a law that they consider unfair. I hope that you have heard this well, because the members of the CUP, Mr de Junts pel Yes, even with all due respect, the President, Mrs Forcadell..., for her, her position as President emanates from the respect of democratic opposition to democratic norms. If we respect this electoral regulation and that is why its legitimacy and the legitimacy of the Bureau, which with one proportional law would have been another, we ask you to respect the laws that you may consider unfair, as do the Democrats with whom we believe you are not so much. And, by the way, if they don't respect the laws... instead, they're taking advantage of a law that we do all respect to act as privileged above what the rest of the citizens do. Therefore, the aim of this law, the main one, must be that the vote of all Catalans should be the same. Those who are not interested in it, those who torpedo a law in which everyone's vote is equally worth it, want to continue cheating. I am already advancing them – and I tell you very seriously –: forget if, let us all forget, to pass an electoral law without an electoral system. It would be a ridiculous and lame law, the expression of a lie and the expression of a new failure of this Parliament. And forget to have an electoral system that is not proportional, that does not respect the principle of: "A citizen, a vote. This proposal of law of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, which, in reality, is the proposal of law, to a large extent, that we agree among all, proposes a more proportional electoral system. You know that, we, with such a system, allow for a proportionality between the vote in a single Catalan constituency and, then, a territorial representation..., it seems good to us; do not set a trap against proportionality against territorial representation. It's all made up, we can do it. We can make a proportional law and, at the same time, respect the principle of territorial representation. There must be no more depopulated territory without representation; it is possible to do so. What is not possible is that the representation is kept giving a voter from that territory twice as much value for their vote or aggrieved voters from other territories with a lower value for their vote. You already know the position of Citizens with regard to electoral laws. Soon, we developed in the Congress of Deputies, at the initiative of Citizens, proposals for reform of the current Electoral Law to democratize and make the most modern and better. There we will also propose – as we wanted to do here – open lists. We are going to propose a reduction in the electoral costs, which I hope for this it will not be difficult to have the agreement that, more or less, we had..., we had already perged. We believe that we must reduce..., that it is mandatory for political parties to reduce our spending. We, unlike other parties, do not need, I do not understand very well why, so much money, we are free, we owe nothing to anyone, we can do our campaigns without stealing, without collecting commissions for public works, without using interposed foundations to finance us. We believe that we must adjust ourselves as citizens adjust to their particular expenses. This law also provided for a single sending of electoral advertising, in order to reduce one of the largest expenses in the campaigns, which is that of the mailings; a depoliticized electoral union, which we also wanted to have greater content, a greater weight of the judges than those who are not judges in the electoral union. Because we must make a rule that guarantees plurality, freedom of the right to vote for citizens; not so much that it is guaranteeing the rights of political parties, candidates and so on; but that is secondary. Clearing an election depends on an electoral law. And with that in mind, we also wanted to regulate the right to information, which is fine and which we have already said: "We do not want blocs, but we do want to guarantee the right of voters to inform themselves through public television, so that plurality is respected. And that must be guaranteed. In the latter, we did it without blocks and we liked it. Therefore, and because of the democratic regeneration of the system, we want to legislate, we want to make an electoral law. We do comply with the laws; there you are with your majority of seats and without your majority of votes to prove it. We abide by the laws that seem unfair to us, although we ask you not to abuse them, because you actually remember what, you are less than the others. We will talk about this electoral law, as we will also talk about in Congress. And we ask that all of you also participate with the popular sovereignty of all Spaniards in the reforms of the organic law, of the electoral law that we, from Citizens, have proposed, also for the Congress of Deputies, where we participate as the rest of the Spaniards. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.202.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Next, the words of Mr David Pérez, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.203.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you see, a preliminary consideration: the text we have today is the text that we have made among all, among all parliamentary groups. You have taken it and included its electoral system; perfect, but it is a text that we have made among all the groups represented here. Why does Catalonia need a new electoral system? The current system, the system we have, isn't thirty-seven years old, is forty-one years old, huh? - He's forty-one years old. It's the last of the laws that have been made since Francoism. This is the electoral system, this is the electoral system we have. We have to change it because it's not proportional? No, it's not true; it's one of the most proportional systems we have. The problem is not proportionality – this is explained already, too –: the problem is the proportion; that is, the representation that is given to each Member in each territory. And this problem, this assessment, what it does and what it represents is that we have a system of the most unjust in all of Europe. The deputy said: there was a game that in two – that we are, that is, the PSC – we have sometimes won the elections, and we have not held..., we have not followed the game that has held the most deputies. There are other parties that have had fewer votes and have had more deputies. A short time ago, our party was the second in the name of votes and we are the third in the name of deputies. This doesn't give many countries in Europe. This injustice... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, that's no good, Irene, to other European countries. So, the country... normally, when a game wins a few elections, it's the party that has the most deputies, and that doesn't happen in Catalonia. Why don't you come by? Because we have an unjust system of assessment, for which the vote of some citizens is twice as much as that of others. Or the vote of the citizens of Girona and Tarragona is less, worth three-quarters than that of other parts of the territory. It is not true, and it has already been said on the part of the companies that preceded me, that proportionality or proportion went against territorial representation. It's not true. Our system, the system we propose, is an absolutely proportional system, but it gives more of the representativeness that it has at this time, for example, to certain provinces, for example, the case of Lleida. It can be done calmly – it has already been explained. There's a lot of ways to do it. What's that? Look, I always set the same example: elections to the city of Barcelona. The vote of the citizens of Sarrià - Sant Gervasi is twice that of the citizens of Nou Barris; twice. Why? No, there is more land there, there are mountains, and it's one thing..., and in Sarria - Sant Gervasi..., it's more concentrated. It's barbaric, it doesn't feel like the citizens' vote on one side of the territory is twice as much as the citizens' vote on the other side of the territory. So, this is the system we have in Catalonia, a completely unjust system. And there are elements of the law..., they said: "Not only the system, there are other things. We agree. We also have the theme of the plot. We've already made an attempt, all political parties, to make a single sending of electoral plot. Is that supposed to be the election law? No, no, There's no need – there's no need. And you know perfectly well that we don't need to because we've been in meetings trying to do it. Transparency. Is that what we need to get into the election law? We already have a total system of transparency, in our accounts, of the comptability of political parties, which we have to bring to the union, which we have to bring to the Court of Auditors. Total transparency. Is it necessary to put it on the election law? No, it's all right, we got it. And if we want more elements of transparency we can include them in the corresponding laws. Is it necessary to have a law why parties that do not withdraw the propaganda have to pay through their assemblies? No, you don't need to; this is happening in a lot of places. There's no need for an election law for this. Do you need an election law, Marta Ribas, to talk about the blocs? You don't have to; you don't need a law for this. You know perfectly well there's no need. You don't have to. Certainly, we agree with the blocs, we say so; everyone is against it, we are in favour of the electoral blocs. That's right, measured at the edge of the bell. We are in favour of everyone, even though he has a very small representation, also having a time on the radio and on public television. Do we need to talk about the incompatibilities of senators and deputies in the election law? You don't have to. We have already talked about this in the Rules of Parliament, this has already been seen, and in other laws. There's no need for an election law for all this. Why does it take an election law? To talk about the electoral system. That's right. Therefore, I hope that you will not go back to making a law without a system, because for the rest there is no need for electoral law. Now, to talk about the system, yes. Therefore, if you come here with a law to talk about an electoral system without an electoral system, we will vote against it; not with two hands, because we cannot; but we will vote against it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, you told me: "No, they won't. Well, you've done it once, haven't you? I mean, that's already been tried. So, I know now that this is an evolution, but, this, not this – not this –, huh? I mean, if we go to the law, we go to the full law. What do we think is to be done? We think we need to make a joint statement. If it is not the joint question, no problem; let's go to the corresponding committee to talk about the subject. Let us think that there must be two companies for each parliamentary group that can participate in this joint debate. We think we don't need any more appearances, we've done them all forty times, it's all explained. We need to sit down and find those elements that are what unites us and what separates us. Does it add the maximum proportionality of the system? Yeah, that's a one-on-one thing. It's trying out the fears and looking to find a solution, where we agree so far, already... A nation, a selection, a constituency; this unites most parliamentary groups of this chamber. Let's go this way. And I agree – absolutely agree – with what the Popular Party's companion commented: "Most parliamentary groups in this chamber, eh? – the majority of parliamentary groups of this chamber – the one commented by the company Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Party. Listen'm: if we agree on this, the issue of the circuit will not be the problem. I also say to him: to approve this law, we will need ninety votes of companies and deputies; therefore, we will have to talk, negotiate and compromise, and everyone will have to give up. And I absolutely agree with what the two previous Members have said: we have our system, which is better, we think, than what you represent, but we are willing to vote in favour of its system if its system is what makes consent. I say this here publicly: if this is the consensual system, the PSC will vote for it; no problem. Or any other system that goes in the same direction as the equal value of the vote. It is not true that this is a system in which the thinking of the citizens of Barcelona..., the sculliny; it is not true, that is not so. With our system, with your system, with the way of thinking of the citizens of Catalonia, the assembly of representatives of the Parliament of Catalonia is built, and they can be attached to the different circumscriptions as we say. There are many ways to do it, let us not fall into this trap that they constantly tell us; it is not true. « The unique circumscription system is the way of thinking of the conjunction of the city of Catalonia, which is transferred to the Parliament of Catalonia. Indeed, the current system harms certain parts. Ours isn't the worst. Do you know what the worst game in the current system is? There are two, especially: Citizens and the CUP. They're the two most damaged parties in the current system, then you come and the PP, and then we come. No, we are not the most damaged in the current system; now, it is true that on two occasions we have won the elections and we have not had any more Members. The current system is a disaster, it's miri as it is miri, it's a disaster. How can we do that to keep...? So, I think we need to work... and, yes, I already warned him that we would vote against it. And I'd also like to comment on one last question. You say: "We have pulled for the right and we have sought to make this proposal. All right, no problem, but remember, huh? , which will require negotiation and consensus. Some say – I read it this morning at the press conference – "That, well, we are already at another stage, aren't we? "We're already going to the tent, and that's not settled, we're going to make a law when we're still independent, right? Okay. That's why when we're independent, we'll have the highest pensions, we'll have ice cream every day for dinner, and we'll have a new election law. That it doesn't go like that; that it doesn't, that it doesn't – that it doesn't, that it isn't. That you don't believe it, that we don't have 14,000 million more when we're still independent. That if we're not the bosses, now, of making a new electoral law, tomorrow, if we're independent, neither are we the bosses. Or because we're independent, there's nothing I can do to change the way we think. We don't have a new electoral law, and that's what we've already said, because there are two parties that the current law benefits them, that are Convergence and Esquerra, and that's why we don't have electoral law. Someone had to say that. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.204.0	Thank you, Mr. Perez. Next, has the word Ms. Anna Gabriel, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.205.0	Well, good afternoon. We'll see one more time that we don't have our own election law. I think it's one of the phrases that must have been uttered more than just in this chamber, but if we rest from the hemeroteca, the lamentations surrounding the lack of the electoral law itself are many. I'd say they're surprised, above all, by those who have no interest in exercising other sovereignties, huh? Electoral sovereignty is a priority for many, but, in change, not so many others. We, with all of us prioritizing them, therefore, have no problem saying: "Yes, we are here to work with one's own electoral law. I don't know whether we need a 21st century law or why citizens are calling for it. I don't think I'd put it on this land either. I think it's obvious what's already been said. That's to say, if there was no agreement before, it's because there's a partisan interest in each of the electoral and recounting systems; there's no more. And from here on out, then, the city is more or less conscious... – because it's also a matter of simplicity, isn't it? , deepening in the comparison of electoral systems –, the citizenry is more or less aware that there are systems that reward or harm certain political parties. And so, so, I think there's no more mystery than this. Is that to say, will you be able to find the reinforced majority that fits to pull in front of your own law? So, let's see how far the party interests come. But I believe that here... that no one ever saw that there was no party interest; that no one saw that during all these years he abstained from the electoral system and did not make a mockery of whether he benefited or harmed him. Actually, everybody's expressed themselves in those terms, right? It harms your help, punishes your reward. So, this is the nude, and this is the main thing, isn't it? What I would also say is that if it is so trembling, so deeply unjust and so punishing the current electoral system, then change the LOREG, to the State, right? Make it quick, express and so on, so we'll end these flagrant injustices. In any case, and going to grade, of course, we haven't presented the whole thing, we didn't think I would exercise this piece of the cum and give it another five minutes, did we? That's a system that's not bad, that was used by the People's Party, isn't it? Therefore, we will try to summarize in the two minutes that we do have, because it is obvious that we do not want to present a statement to the totality, because we want to work on this question; we have already done so in the last legislature. And we'll work to solve an equation that doesn't have a perfect solution. I think it's honest to say. The tension between proportionality and representation of the territory doesn't have perfect solutions, huh? It is obvious that ‘one person, one vote. I would say that Ciutadans corrected the expression. There are no people who go to vote with half a vote or three-quarters, everyone has a vote; one person, one vote is the system with which it works. I guess that means the value of all people's votes is exactly the same, huh? That would be proportionality. Correct. But why is it talking about the representativeness of the territory? So because there is a determined human mapping in a country, and because if we don't take into account the territory there would be absolutely no... – absolutely no one, taking into account the prevailing political culture, perhaps with the terratremol this policy that will come things will change –, there would be no one who is concerned to go to electoral campaign in certain areas of the depopulated Pyrenees, because there is no one there! And no one would think about what we have to offer young shepherds who try to keep branches in the Pyrenees pastures. Why is this how many votes would you give compared to the great conurbation of Barcelona? Res. And of these examples, taking into account the human cartography of the country, we would find many. Therefore, something explains, also, the representativeness of the territory, because, if not, the electoral campaigns that are centered in certain barrels of the city of Barcelona, to the conurbation, without making miles during the fifteen days and who won there takes the majority of the Parliament. And the country is a little more diverse than that, huh? Therefore, we agree with the maximum proportionality and take into account the representation of the territory. And here to see who we find. In fact, the Dutch system doesn't seem bad to us; something else is, huh? , that we take into account old age or other circumstances; but, of this, in any case, we can certainly talk about it. An election law – and the preamble of the law says so, right? – deepens the democratic quality of the country. We don't think they're bigger than us, do we? The electoral law carries it with an electoral system that is where everyone puts the focus, in fact. And we'll see, we'll see, if it helps deepen the quality of democracy. That would mean that some things would have to be incorporated, such as, for example, something that we defended: blanks. If it really hurts us so much to usurp representation that it doesn't touch us, if it really hurts us so much that there are political parties that have more scons than the citizens voted for them, that no one wants to remain representation that sees forbearance. I mean, how much abstention is there in a country? So, so many empty cadirs, for example. That's being absolutely just as well. Why don't we think of parliaments we agree on the basis of the participation we've had? More participation, more escons; less participation, less escons, for example. Completely agreed to expand voting facilities. Some questions have been commented, to extend the election day, for example, to improve the early vote. In any case, there will be time to talk about it. But what are authentic sacks? Out of the blanks, it looks like it is. That I have the right to vote absolutely everyone, and that the people who live in this country, who try to work in this country, whether or not I get it, come from where I come, have the administrative situation that I have, have the right to vote. That's messed up in the democratic system. Therefore, we already know that there is a state law that assigns citizenship according to certain criteria. You know perfectly well. But if we want to respond to the challenge of democratic radicality, we're also putting this on top of the table. We're cutting down – we're cutting down – we're limiting mandates, we're rotting in the ranks, we're restricting turnaround doors... that's also sure to help make the democratic system better. Electoral blocks. He's been talking about it, hasn't he? , also, a lot, and if the responsibility is for the regulation of blocks or is of the Catalan Corporation of Mitjans..., or the relevant direction of the CCMA. In any case, we are absolutely against how we are acting in relation to how the imposition of the electoral blocs in today's world is understood, but we are also absolutely against the fact that only public media are looked at. It's obvious that the mitjan system that's in there isn't ours, huh? We'll have time to talk about it. And it's obvious that we don't agree with the fact that communicative policy is when there are elections in public media, but that we don't agree that certain parties are obvious, by system, which electoral policy is from certain private media, which we have never seen, nor have we ever seen before. And that the citizens of this country also look at these chains, and they listen to them, and they also build opinions. Therefore, we opened the apple of the electoral blocs. I know you can't regulate the emissions of certain private media from here, but, at the very least, you also have a portrait of how certain lobbyists act. And today is a good day to remember for sure which paper they have private communication media to win some or other candidates. Therefore, let us address the question of media in its integrity. Zip lists, absolutely agree. We'd go further, wouldn't we? According to which circumstances we understand that they must be preserved, but we may also have to regulate that there is a bet on the lists, because, if not, we will find that the lists will be zipped, but that the composition of the plenary may be, therefore, very decant. Let's think about later correction systems. I mean, there are representatives, but then, then, it has to be done, right? , an alteration of those representatives so that it is a clearly equal composition, for example. We'd demystify the whole unblocked list thing, huh? It proves that there is a strict, highly selective, ultra-informed minority that ends up focusing on unlocking. Most of the city is taking over the political party putting it above the table, because it's what it's all about, isn't it? , composition, better. We will not fight it, but we will help to demystify it, because, moreover, it is a perfect entrance also for certain lobbyists and why certain people, rather than answering a logic of party or political space collection, respond to those, right? , who managed to locate him in that place. Therefore – and I finish – the commitment of the CUP with its own legislation is absolute, the commitment of the CUP to work around a system similar to the Dutch system is also absolute. We guarantee that we will not impose party logic, nor vote for forbearance, nor do we have to assume that we must vote for the immigrant people who do not have papers, but we will not fail to demand that they have their representation. Therefore, we will show that we do not move the logical partyists, and I assure you that if we can make this law deepen into the political terratremol to end the system, obviously we are here for this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.206.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. Next, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.207.0	Thank you, President. For a moment we felt, Mrs Ribas, that what he was presenting to us today really wanted us to approve. For a little while it seemed to us that this was a serious proposal, but then we thought: "It cannot be – it cannot be – because if someone wants to pass an electoral law that requires a majority of two-thirds the most normal is that before submitting a proposal to the plenary, they go to parliamentary groups and explain the proposal to them. I don't know about the others, I've deduced that neither, for what they said, but we didn't come to see each other, and we represent sixty-two indispensable deputies to approve this law. Therefore, it seems to us that it is more soon a postureg position, as we would say now, a certain will to seek consensus, to seek majority, to seek the ninety-one Members who need to pass an electoral law. Where do you think you'll get them if you don't see the parliamentary groups, if you don't talk to them? In fact, we believe that this should be valued and worked in a joint position, as we did in the past legislature and as you remember that your group was asking for basic basic life insurance? – call for joint ponies. So, listen, we're also making a joint stand for a central element like the election law. They didn't come to see us. They didn't raise it, and they did it more with one point – let's say so – of disloyalty, or at any rate I read, because they, as if it were a proposal of theirs – and all the groups have said it – the conclusions of a joint debate. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That is to say, joint conclusions of all groups. They didn't come to see us and they put on the table a document that we approved, that we wrote, that we worked among all. So obviously we can't be against most of the document, the text they're proposing to us, because we're paired, too, huh? We're couples and mothers of this plantation that's done. "95_per_cent," you said. I don't know what the percentage is. We'll give for good this 95_per_cent. Certainly. We agree on this 95_per_cent, but then the remaining 5_per_cent! – Oh, that remaining 5_per_cent! A title, which has prevented, in short, that during... – I don't know if it's 37, 40, 41, it's the same – during so many legislatures there has been no approval of an electoral law, the electoral system. We don't agree with that. Obviously the proposal they put us on the table does not share it. It is very legitimate for you to propose your electoral system, as in fact each group proposes its own, but we do not share it. And we don't share it because it doesn't defend it enough, it doesn't guarantee two essential elements that mark us the State: the proportionality, of a band, but also the territoriality; that is, the territorial representation. The Dutch system, which today offers us no defence, does not guarantee these two principles. And it turns out that you come out here and say, "Listen to me, this is a system that we propose, and the others do the favor of abandoning theirs and coming to ours because, if not, they would be partying. It turns out that when we do not give up our proposals we are partyists, but when you do, it turns out you look for the good of everyone. So it's got to be legitimate for each of you to defend your system, huh? What is it that you've given up on him all these years? During all these legislatures, have you renounced your electoral system for a majority agreement? I'd say no. For the little experience I have, which is that of the last legislature, they didn't do it. They did not give up, for the sake of agreement, their electoral system, with the legitimate insistence of most groups. It doesn't represent..., not defence enough of proportionality and territoriality, which is not just what the State says: it is that we agree that these are the two main principles to preserve. And you propose a system from a fallacy, from something that is not certain, that this current system is a disaster of proportionality. It's not true – it's not true. Is it better? So much so that it's better! All systems are better, not even theirs is perfect, all systems are better. But we don't start from a bad base, we don't start from a system that isn't very proportional. The current system, applied to Catalonia, is a system... God is not as proportional, and, in any case, is much more proportional than the same system applied to the joint of the Spanish State. Certainly, Mr. Pérez, said: "This system is a disaster! So I don't feel like saying the same thing to the PSOE to the government of the Spanish state, and he ruled with this system. And look what you've had opportunities to change the system. But it turns out that when the system favors me, it's very good, but when the system I don't think it favors me, it's a disaster. It is much more deproposal the same system applied to the State, and they have not changed it, than applied to Catalonia. In short, your conphony prorates of escons with scrutiny. It's not the same scrutiny, it's with a single circumscription, it's with different circumscriptions, it's with the proration. We agree that we need to improve our assessment, and so much so that we do. And we need to improve it especially in the Barcelona constituency; underrepresented, we agree. But this is the report, it has nothing to do with the scrutiny, and you confound it. And, obviously, we'll defend territoriality. Ms Ribas said: « The deputies of the territories will choose them in Barcelona. So what? So what? - And what? Did you tell me, that I am an elector of Girona, that my representatives will choose the voters of Barcelona? Did you tell the voters of the Pyrenees – now they were talking – that their representatives would choose them in the Eixample of Barcelona? Are you saying that? He's saying that. Why do you think we're defending territoriality? We defend territoriality because the citizens of the Pyrenees have their representatives and because the citizens of Girona have their representatives [[applause]] And because the whole country is represented in this room, not just a few citizens from a certain part of the country. Therefore, proportionality and territoriality. There's been a history of what we're here for. And some have accused some parties of being the big blockers of the law accord, as if they passed through here, huh? Some parties seem to be in the chamber, which have never been there, that it turns out that they could not participate in majorities to make an electoral law the previous legislatures, especially the PSC, which for many years has followed the second party of this chamber, the second party of the country, and now it turns out that they have nothing to do with the fact that there has been no electoral law during all these years. Something, Mr. Pérez, there must be something to see, there must be something to see everyone. In fact, we take our share of responsibility, our share of aliquot of historical responsibility; but no more, no less. That you're all taking responsibility. In any case, however, today it is not a matter, obviously, of making a historic rest, of looking back, of looking back, of looking at the past, of why we are here, but of looking at the present and, above all, the future, because electoral systems, electoral laws are also the fruit of the political situation in which they are given, and, therefore, of what we want today and what seems to us truly decisive at the time of this debate is to know the context of the current Catalonia. And we, we've already said, we're in another phase. This debate that they are raising today seems to us – in fact, has already been given so many legislatures that it is already a classic of the Parliament, in fact almost a tradition – absolutely adequate in an autonomous context. But we, the Junts for the Yes Group, a majority of this Parliament and a social majority of this country, are already in a post-autonomous situation, in a situation where obviously we want to build an electoral law, and so much so that we want to make an electoral law; it's more, it's a pending assignment of this process that we make. But we want to make the electoral law of the Catalan Republic. And we want to do it in three ways. First, to overcome the restrictions of LOREG. We have spoken here as if there is no general electoral law governing what we can do and what we cannot do in the Parliament of Catalonia. Second, because we want to bring about a real change in political culture, not just a change or consolidation of what is already happening at these times. And the third element for which we want to build this law of the Catalan Republic: because we are in a process they constitute, and a process they constitute precisely that, that the citizens choose which model, which country they want, which institutions they want to return to the future republic, and they will also obviously choose, how they want to choose, how they want to choose their future representatives. We want to overcome the restrictions of LOREG, precisely because we want to achieve some of the objectives that you commented, Mrs Ribas. For example, we agree to increase the right to vote to majors of seven years; therefore, it is not possible, we cannot, because the LOREG mark we cannot, limits us. We want to limit the duration of the campaigns; neither can we. We want to eliminate anachronisms such as the day of reflection or the fact that we can't publish in these weeks before the elections; we can't, either, because the LOREG limits us, limits the legal framework in which we can move to make our own electoral law. And we want to change it, the Electoral Law, and so much, so much! , to make a new democratic culture, a new political culture, basically with three great principles: the first, because there is more responsibility and accountability, is to say, that we do not only vote every four years, but there is a constant retention of accounts; to deepen the mechanisms of participation, and to make a campaign more permeable, more dynamic, more than the 21st century. In short, we want more and better democracy. But we will do so in the mark of the process, we will do so in the mark of the construction of a new republic in Catalonia, a new republic that, Mr Pérez, effectively will have an electoral law and in which all the citizens of Catalonia will decide how they want this electoral law to follow, so they will decide how they want to choose their representatives. The debate that today we are being raised up late in an autonomous period and not yet up in time in a post-autonomous period. They are obviously also involved in this process debate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.208.0	Mr. Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.209.0	...and to draw the republic they want, the republic we want. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.210.0	As the campaign withdrew to totality, Catalonia's Election Law Proposition continues its processing. Mrs Ribas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.211.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention were not recorded.]] ...direct, huh? – for direct allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.212.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.213.0	Mr. Torrent's. I think I have explained this, but I would like you to be very clear: after a year, more than a year, of the autonomous elections, no one has moved in this Parliament because in this legislature there has been an election law. We wanted you to go one step further, and not go back to the same point as we were in the previous legislatures, and our paper was basically a lever. Now it's a paper we have to make all the deputies of this chamber. It's here. We just wanted to make a lever, re-start the debate on the Electoral Law in this legislature, thus assuming our share of aliquot, also of responsibility. We do not want to be responsible again for completing a parliamentary term or for returning to autonomous elections without the law of the election. Certainly, consensus is to seek in all the main laws, if any. On the presuppositions it seems they're not looking for it, either. Therefore, look, every one that looks at its defects and its share of responsibilities respects how they seek consensus with the other groups in this chamber for the main political laws that are being adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.214.0	The point of the order of the day is: debate of totality on the Proposition of access law to text books by means of a prestec system. [[Proposition of access law to text books by means of a loan system (totality debate)]] [[202-00032/11]] In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative is presented, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.215.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. "What is in the books is like money in the hands of another, which when you need it is never, says a Sanskrit proverb. Well, we have to hear this proverb in the context that, to the vèdica culture, transmission is purely oral, unlike what goes on in the western world, that from the invention of printing is fundamentally graphocentric. Still, it is true that there are many teachers on individual titles or honest centres who decide not to serve text books, but they still feel a minority that is no higher than 20 percent, and every September there are many families who have to make a great effort to be able to cope with the cost of two or three hundred euros per child in the concept of text books. Besides, there are not a few teachers who, despite deciding not to serve the textbook, then finish taking photocopies of manuals or scanning them and hanging them to a Moodle. And it's that the textbook is just a snitch if we make him serve wire at a time, which fortunately doesn't just pass. And I'm talking, that I think I'm a little suspicious of conservativeism and that I have several articles published on educational innovation that mediate social networks, the first of them in 2009, when for most teachers social networks were an enemy to beat and not an opportunity to transmit knowledge. The textbook is, therefore, a material on which teachers can find support for their practical teachers. For this reason, it seems unacceptable to me the criticisms that the textbook is an obsolete model, because it shows a lack of awareness of what happens to most Catalan classrooms. In fact, different autonomous communities across Spain already have a loan system to hold free books, so as to guarantee equal opportunities for all students, with their free access to education, regardless of the socioeconomic situation of their families. And this is very important, since Catalonia has a difference of 277 points in PISA outcomes between students with favourable economic situations and students with unfavourable economic situations. These figures directly address social cohesion and equal opportunities. The last few years have lowered the numbers of school dropouts and early school dropouts, it is true, but they have not dropped to the same rate among students with less income. In fact, according to a report by Save the Children, the socio-economic factor is now larger and inequalities have the most impact on those left behind. And that's also time against social cohesion, which they're always assuming, but it's not true, as these data show, because in Catalonia what we have is a scholarship system that is a pale mechanism of lack of real access to free education. The most important concepts at the time of ensuring free access to education are textbooks, school materials, school transport and out-of-school activities. We, with this proposal of the law, want to take a step forward for what it does to free real access to education. During the 2005-2006 course, the Cooperative Programme for the Promotion of the Reuse of Books was launched, which supported the centres in the concept of textbooks and school materials. Nevertheless, according to the 2015 Report on the Rights of Children of the Greuges Synod, from the 2011-2012 course to the date of publication of the report, no subsidy had been granted under this programme. The year 2015 the Ministry of Education reactivated the aid to cover the cost of textbooks and other educational materials for the course 2015-2016 and awarded the Generalitat €5_million. To this illness or disappearance of many programs of public help, we have to add the loss of power acquired by downloads of either son or by situations of up to which many families suffer and which makes it very difficult, and sometimes, even, impossible, that they can buy the books of text. And I know what I'm talking about, because I've unfortunately had a lot of students in class without being able to get a textbook. Before pressing the voting button, think for a moment about the patience of these creatures who must depend on others in order to study or to be able to do dues, because they do not have their own textbook. We, with this proposal, want to deal with this suffering of these creatures and also of their families, who pass it very badly when they see that they cannot buy the books from their children. Over the past three years, the Generalitat has made economic resources available for the acquisition of textbooks and teaching materials at centres located in disadvantaged environments; but what is going on? , that there are students in disadvantaged situations who are not enrolled in these centres, with which they do not have any help. The department always gets as much as it allocates resources to high-complexity centres, but we have already told it, on other occasions, that this is not enough, because there are many students who do not attend to this policy. And that doesn't take into account that there are many centers that, while being highly complex, don't want to be categorized as such because they think that this stigma and makes it perpetual in this situation. And, for this reason, many students are left unattended. And I know a lot of cases like this. In view of the lack of response from the Department of Education, each year more families are self-organizing or self-managed AMPAs who create loan funds to reduce the costs of the return to school. So, we have, in Spain, from one band, some autonomous communities where all students have free books and, here in Catalonia, some centers where students have free books and others they don't. We, with this law proposal, want to end this discrimination and that all students can access text books free of charge. This morning Mr. Jordi Sendra once again drew one of these mantras – because another thing they won't have, but the truth is that, originals, they're not very good, are they? The mantras always repeated them – and he told us that we were born to divide. Look, no; here those who divide are you, because they want some students to have free books and others, no, that's what's happening now. Those who divide are you, because there are students who receive their education in mother tongue and others who do not. And those who are divided are you, because the students who can be paid for elite centers have more than one vehicle language in their education system and those who don't have money will have to conform with one vehicle language in the education system. It's you who divide. [[Greetings.]] It is clear that this proposal is a fair one, as it advances in equal opportunities and genuinely free access to education. I personally never met a family who said to me: "Hey, this proposal from Ciutadans I don't like; this proposal of free text books, look, better not, because you haven't heard. No, no, the other way around, huh? To all the families we've talked to seems like a fantastic proposition. And, despite that, together for the Yes has decided to present a message to the totality, because they do not want to even talk about this subject, they do not want nor that we can debate here, to the Parliament. The deputies and the deputies of Juntas per el Si will have to explain very well to all the citizens because they do not want all Catalan students to have free text books, as they already have in other autonomous communities. And don't say it's a question of money, because we don't ask for impossible things. If we propose this proposition of law is because, with the Excel in hand, it can be done. At the end of the interview, the lady advised me that my figures were not correct. I said to him, "So much so that they are. Right now, I don't have the Excel, but the next session I'll get you an Excel. Well, the truth is I didn't bring him an Excel, I brought him four. Because when we make a proposal, it's because, with the Excel in the hand, in this case, with the four Excels in the hand, it can be done. Why did we bring four Excels? Because we've done four simulations. The first: all students in Catalonia with free text books; if we do it in two years, it is 209_million euros; in the case we did it in four years, which is the second simulation, 204_million euros. We're talking about 50_million euros a year, which if it's not what Mr. Comín promised every time he visits a town, which I think is a very easy xifra to term. But it's actually not supposed to be 100 per cent, because the private centers don't really feel like they're getting text books, and, besides, we've already said that there are teachers and centers that decide not to use text books, for which we've done two more simulations: 80 per cent of students, if we do it in two years, it's 167 million euros, and, if we do it in four, 163 million euros. We're talking about 40 million euros a year. Can we actually hold a President of the Generality who is twice as much as the President of Spain and cannot hold €40_million for free text books? Can we actually have some advisors who cover more than the president of Spain and can't have 40_million euros for free books? Actually we can hold 242 higher charges that cover more than the president of Spain, but we can't hold 40_million for free text books? Look, I am convinced that the vast majority of Catalans, whether or not they are independent and voting for whom they vote, would be more likely to have free textbooks for their children than the President of the Generality and the best-paid advisors of all Spain. Ladies and gentlemen of Convergence, you will have to explain very well why we have 242 higher fees that cover more than the President of Spain, but the students of Catalonia cannot have free text books as they do have other autonomous communities. We don't want Catalan money to be used to have more political responsibilities than anyone else. We want the money of all Catalans to be used to have a real equal access to free education for all Catalan students. Because we don't want books to be like money in the hands of others; we want books to always be when they are needed. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.216.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In order to defend the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, Ms Teresa Vallverdú has the word ".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.217.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, access to education is a key element in a society that aspires to be socially just. There are no elements that make infants and young people have any type of impediments that do not guarantee them that they can be fully educated, of quality and on equal terms. That's where we're going from. The Law of Education of Catalonia, in article 4, already specifies that everyone has right to access in conditions of equality to the education system. And this statement involves just a treatment that takes into account the initial inequalities of users. Not everyone's starting from the same situation. Economic inequalities are more than well-known and obvious, and the additional costs of schooling are not limited only to the purchase of textbooks, but there is a series of other expenses that are inexhaustible on the part of many resourceless families and that are, therefore, an impediment to achieving this gross condition of equality. Each educational community has its own characteristics that the singular and, in fact, for what it does to economic capacity, both internally and between centres, there are abysmal differences that cannot be treated uniformly. Textbooks, however, in the case of schools that use them, which are not all, are surely the largest expense that families will face every school year. And it's true that there are mechanisms that facilitate access to these materials, especially to the families that most need it. But we must consider whether, in a situation such as the present, obvious shortcomings in many areas, it is essential to establish a procedure that will promote the universalization of the free text books with access also for families with sufficient resources or for families with a great deal of resources. The LEC, as you know, establishes in its Article 6 that the Department of Education must adopt the necessary measures to progressively introduce a general aid system in the various forms of text books and other school materials in the compulsory teaching for the students of public centres and private centres supported with public funds. As you can see, the object of the proposed law that we are presented with, which is expressed in its article 1, that it is to obtain as much free textbook as possible to students of primary education and compulsory secondary education, and in its case, the maximum possible reduction of its cost, is already covered by the LEC, which makes everything unnecessary another rule of law. Another of the elements that we find in this proposition of law that they present to us is that it is more than surpassed by reality. The educational materials that students use are each time more diverse and of more different characteristics. We talk about text books, yes, in paper format, but also in digital format, and also about materials produced for the centres themselves, in paper or in digital format: educational programming, audiovisual material. The textbook is not the only learning tool, and I would say that every time it replaces more with another bulk of school material. Digital technologies allow educational dynamics to be based on the active participation of students every time. And learning situations take into account the traditional use of textbooks every day. The centres increase the use of innovative materials, many of which are of creation and internal use. This is why this concept that they propose to deposit or centralized catalog of text books to lend to the collection of teaching centers is already completely outdated and is clearly obsolete. There are also other aspects of his proposal which seem unclear to us. For example, the real role of the Department of Education throughout the system they offer. The personnel needed for technical and control issues and the digital control infrastructure for the long term the loan system can have a high cost that is not collected in the proposal. Article 13 involves an economic burden which they do not foresee in any case, and which they transfer to economic parties included in the assumptions a difficult cost to predict for the lack of clarity with which they present themselves. The financing and material endowment of the prestec system also seems confusing to us and presents us with many doubts: both the implementation and the maintenance are due to the premise of the teaching centers, but the parties can be endowed with various sources ranging from the center's assets to private donations, passing by public or private finance, and end up stating that as long as the implementation and maintenance can last with money or non-money, free or expensive contributions from physical or legal persons. In our view, here we are entering a land that can significantly harm centres with fewer resources and families with lower returns, and I would also say that it can favour centres with a more economically more powerful and easier social environment to achieve private finance, which is not the one that needs more than the cost of text books. And this is radically contrary to what we think needs to happen: that it is the families with less resources and those who have the most difficulties who will see themselves more favored by the policies that are being implemented. But, well, we agree that there is expenditure, yes, and that it is a line in which to move forward to facilitate access to education on equal terms. But we also need to recognize that there are many lives to reduce family spending on school education, and that at the same time the regulation of a textbook loan system is very short and ineffective. We are talking about the empowerment of free use materials, such as free programming, common creative licenses, for example; the impulse of collaborative networks between centres and teachers where there is a sharing of materials developed for the centres themselves, and, where possible, also establishing a system of aids for the acquisition of commercialized educational materials, a system that can be regulated according to the income of each family and that would be socially just and equitable. If it is not intended to centralize and leaves open the measure to be taken to facilitate access to educational materials, it does not affect the future of the publishing world either. We must not forget that Catalonia has an ecosystem of educational content publishers that do not have other European territories, nor Spain. The economic contribution to the Catalan cultural GDP of the book in general is around 40_per_cent, and for this percentage Catalan editorials are responsible for a considerable part. A regular loan system for law such as that which offers consequences for the Catalan publishing world. We can talk about the risk involved in losing jobs, thousands of authors, both teachers and teachers, publishers, proofreaders, maquetists, graphic arts workshops, paper manufacturers... Any impact on the market of the postage book would risk its continuity, since the joint on which they act would be much reduced and would prevent them from moving forward. If Catalan publishers cannot survive serious replacements for state publishers, what – who has no doubt? – with the highest Farien grant translations of state contents. I already know that they do not care about people, but I would put at risk the adequacy to the specific contents of the Generality and, above all, to the teaching methodologies and models of the Catalan school, which are significantly different from Spanish, with the risk added that also the editions of children's and young people's literature is seen to be impossible to maintain and the Catalan authors can also be replaced by works originally written in other languages. In any case, the educational centres have taken paths that escape much of their proposal, and we find ourselves in front of a law proposal that seeks to regulate an area that, for one band, is heading towards very different areas and that, on the other, is already regulated autonomously from the same centres, with more than obvious advantages. Without help in the acquisition of books, the centres have had to set up solutions, and the re-use systems of textbooks have begun to be implemented in many schools and institutes with great success, very often with a very important involvement both of AMPAs and of the entire educational community. So, it's a system that works. But let us not forget that Decree 102/2010, of 3 August, of the autonomy of educational centres, establishes that the management of material resources is one of the areas that are included in the autonomy of the centres, and that is why the centres that consider it appropriate can establish systems of reuse and lending of textbooks. And this freedom they have the centers to deal with this problem and find-solution has advantages that are not found in a regulation like you propose. Because a re-use or loan program designed and carried from the center, done in the way the center decides, is a project that links the entire educational community: teachers, parents and mothers, managed staff... It is a project that forms part of the center education project and becomes a quality value that defines the center in question. It is an example of cooperative work between all members of the educational community and an element that can also positively affect, in a collateral way, other aspects of the centre and the education of its students. At the same time, the involvement of the various areas of the educational community can involve strengthening the social fabric of the centre, and cooperation between families, students and teachers can turn the project into a key building pillar of the educational community, without leaving aside the advantages that can be provided to students as a cross-curricular training tool, with useful tools for various knowledge areas. Think how you can apply to the formation of a student the whole series of aspects needed to successfully bring forward a project of reuse or loan of books from the same center: from the obvious advantages of self-management and teamwork to aspects such as writing, economic management, business relations and families or the import of responsible and sustainable consumption. There has been, until the 2011-2012 course – as I recall – free competition aid for the reuse of text books that have ceased to be called for reasons of presuppositional availability, and there are still conjuncts and local councils that give aid both for reuse and for the acquisition of text books. The resources that could be invested from the department have been allocated to high-complexity centres, which is where there is more need and urgency, and it is obvious that they are not the only ones who need the cost of books to be lower. If there was more economic capacity, than when we were, the centres could have resources to carry out their projects with less economic burden for families and decide which system could be better suited to their educational project. However, in any case, in our view, the decision on how expenditure should be reduced in text books, which is the most appropriate system for each case, should be left in the hands of the centres, and should not be a centralized model, uniform for all, as you propose. When it is possible to have the necessary resources, it is necessary to leave the freedom to each centre to manage it in the way that they consider it most appropriate and that they are most useful. We run from centralized models that contradict the autonomy of centers and we pay for a future with more and better possibilities to contribute, as the LEC says, to help reduce the cost of textbooks and other school materials; a future, therefore, with more resources than the centers that target the system that they consider more appropriate to their educational project, around, the profile of their community and their needs. And in the meantime let the educational community make use of its abilities and manage in the way that each centre considers most convenient, according to the autonomy of the centres, the system of re-use of books that allows it to lower the cost it entails for families, also taking advantage of the advantages that it entails from the centre itself, without external interference, both for what it does to relations with the community as in the derivatives for the formation of the student. In short, we are totally in favour of systems that promote access to educational materials, but what you propose in this bill has been a long time since the centres that want to bring it to an end with a high degree of success and with benefits that remain outside their proposal. We also say that we will not vote in favour of regulating what you already provide for in the LEC, and more so when what you intend to regulate is already regulated without any problem. We will also vote in favour of those who restrict the autonomy of the centres, who are the ones who must manage the material resources, as allowed by the Decree of Autonomy of the Educational Centres, because one thing is that from every educational community in each centre it is decided one loan system and the other, which is intended to be regular by law. We do not understand the utility of many aspects of this proposal of law, such as the creation of a collection of teaching centers that already has a short and expired validity, little in agreement with the lines where the educational dynamics and the variety of materials go. And we don't think it's right to propose a project like this without starting from a dialog that encloses all the sectors involved, to know how we face the future in this aspect. For all these reasons, lords of Ciutadans, our group has presented a whole question to this law proposal. Because it's not a matter of referring to point-to-point aspects because it can work, but it's the same experience that already seems to us to be totally old and wrong. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.218.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vallverdú. Then has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.219.0	Thank you, Madam President. And allow me, please, a preview before starting with the papers; it is that I wanted to congratulate them because they have achieved an international success, which is to get out to Politics, which is one of the most important, most influential media and which they read to MEPs. What's going on is that they've put them on the same list as Mrs. Le Pen and that the ultra-threat, and the title of the article is "The next big Trump moments," and consider that one of the great Trump moments will be, this late, this reference they want to do. After that, honestly... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'll pass it later, in the pateixi, huh? It's all right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I'm explaining, no... simply, that they put them on the list of all the ultra-rights and all the populists, and the title is: "Great Trump moments to come, and one of those great Trump moments is the reference, huh? I'll be right there. [[Widow's remorse.]] Come on. Then, Mrs. Vallverdú, frankly, I don't think he was very aware at the time of measuring his words, because he said things that really left us stunned. The band from this, it doesn't seem to have listened very well, because it's because I already said I shouldn't be for all the students. Actually, I brought not one, but two simulations, with 80_per_cent of the students. What's better, the law? Sense of doubt. But that's why we can talk. It's just that, since you don't want to talk and you've already directly asked us a question about the whole thing, all that's better, what a doubt that is, we haven't been able to talk about it. This is what the LEC says about access to education, and it's the same for everyone, you explain it to families every September, when you spend two hundred, three hundred euros on books, and you explain it to families who can't deal with it. I keep going. I think he didn't listen to me, or he listened to me, but he did a lot of talking about what he was writing, because I already said it's absurd to accuse a proposal of lapse when there are obviously innovative measures, but the reality in Catalan classrooms is that most people use text books. And, I insist, I don't know how many articles you've published about educational innovation; I have a few, if I want to, huh? And to do different activities without text-free..., I want to pass them; I mean, I don't have a problem with doing activities without text-free, I've worked with or without. But the reality is that there are many Catalan families that in September have to face two hundred, three hundred euros, and that in many cases they cannot. Then, this very proposal that you seem so terrible and that it doesn't seem to be very viable or very realistic, turns out that it was approved in Madrid itself. So I don't understand why Madrid can't do it, and it can't do it here. If it's so bad, I don't understand how, not Ciutadans anymore, but the rest of the political parties in the Madrid Parliament, could have approved it. They must be all very wrong. I also said to him, and it seems that he did not listen to me, that the problem with his policy of helping some concrete centres is that students who are not enrolled in these concrete centres, because by area they do not touch them, do not have these aids right. And there are centers – and I'm saying that because mine was one of them – that they don't want to be classified as high-complexity centers, because it stigmatizes them. So, with this policy, what they do is leave many people who need it without help. Then, what does it really say that they consider themselves more favoring the editorials than to the Catalan families, God does, huh? - God don't do it. Yeah, yeah, he said it, and, besides, as the videos are, today... he said it very clearly. Because you want to continue to favour Catalan editorials in front of families, but, more importantly, you have recognized that you want to do so because you want to control the contents, because you don't want the contents from here to be like those from the rest of Spain. Forgive me, the acquaintances are neither state nor autonomic– nor Rubí, which is my people and I cherish it very much. Knowledge is free and must be strict, and if it is strict it has no problem that it is immediately here, that it is immediately..., I know, in La Rioja, in Murcia or Brussels, because if knowledge is free and strict where is the problem that the book can be printed in one place or another? Certainly, this is unlikely, because always – even though they are now carrying each time more than Madrid –, always and from the 16th century – when it is always from the 16th century – Catalonia has had a powerful publishing industry and many of the books that serve the rest of Spain are also printed here, because they are Catalan editorials. But, well, you continue to favor the lobbying, which we will continue to fight for all Catalan families. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.220.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then you have the... Mrs. Vallverdú, why ask me the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.221.0	No, it was to tell Mrs. Sierra that I did listen to her and I think she's the one who didn't listen to me, the one I've been telling her. See, I told him that centers are already using re-use systems without centralizing their regulation; that's what I told him. And about the editorials at the moment, it's obvious, I told him that we put the editorials on the family's rights forward; that's to say, that's at the moment I said it, and I can review the video, just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.222.0	The words of Ms.Alícia Romero of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.223.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Well, then, first of all, and given the discussion that later, then, will surely be staged a little more, I would like to thank the Ciuta Group for presenting this proposal of the law, because it seems to me that they want to address a key issue in education and in what we find ourselves at these times, in difficult times, as it is to guarantee the right to education under conditions of equality. And I say on equal terms, and I want to point this out, because we are not, but the later studies that are published in relation to the situation of education in Catalonia, what they tell us is that inequality is growing, that child poverty is growing, and that education, our education system, is not helping to do that, on the contrary. And, therefore, this is a subject that must be of great concern and concern to us. It is true that the gratuity of text books is only one of the programs that could be done and that can be done to help ensure fair access, but it is better that we start and talk about something, because it is true that it costs us a lot, with the government, to move on some things. Therefore, welcome this proposal of law that presents Ciutadans. And it is clear that to solve the problem of inequality and equity and the quality of the education system we need more resources. We already know that. And just one of the elements that we've lost in the past few years, just since 2010, are the public resources allocated by the Government of Catalonia to education. From 2010 to 2013 the reduction of investment in education in Catalonia has been 1,263_million euros. We have the investment relative to the lowest GDP of Spain, one of the lowest in Europe and, as you know, in the later studies, the yearbook presented by the Bofill Foundation a few weeks ago, so it put us at the level of countries like Laos and Peru. 2.8 of GDP represents the investment we make in education. I don't know what kind of country you want to build, but with the little inversion we devote to education, so it doesn't seem like I'm going to be a hopeful mass in this country. In this framework, we understand that Citizens present this proposal for law to guarantee equal opportunities, as we know that many times the acquisition of these books generates inequalities and creates problems in many families. Miri, one of the tasks to be developed by the Department of Education is to take the necessary measures to introduce progressively a system of aids that ensures, among others, economic accessibility to textbooks and school materials, not only from public centres, but also those supported by public resources. Because of the containment measures – not to mention the details – that have been produced in the past few years, since the year 2011 there has been difficulty because these aids can reach all families; we were also told by Congresswoman Sierra. In this sense, the Synod of Greuges, which also informs us and gives us some data on how the situation is in Catalonia, says that, in this sense – says – "According to the principle of free teaching, the centres should seek ways to acquire textbooks and school materials that are economically more accessible to families and that are more effective in guaranteeing the right of students to quality education on an equal basis. Says: "The cooperative program to promote the reuse of text books in publicly supported educational centres could be an example. And this should go forward to improve a system of aids that is not working in the past, because it is not economically equipped as it should be, and therefore, looking for options, looking for programs that facilitate this and therefore giving response to this difficulty that many families have is one of the obligations of the Teaching Department. We have no awareness that the department is pushing these types of programs. That's why we're voting against your goal in totality, because we think it's important to put some solutions on the table. Of course, we can talk about it in a process; we can talk about many things, to improve, to treure, to advance, to whether it has to be this or another. But actually his argument follows the centralization that this law proposes with regard to the loan model and the reuse of books seems to us to be a really flowing and low argument. And listen to me, this, you say: "This is already happening in many schools. Well, it passes in some schools– some schools–, a bit small in Catalonia. And it's also true that it happens in some schools because many municipalities are betting on it. And now I will put the case of the Juntament de Santa Coloma de Gramenet, which since the year 2007 has a program with the public and concerted schools of prestec of books and of reuse of books. The year they put it on the march there spent 2_million euros, an important xifra; today it is 400,000, because the reuse of books makes it obvious that every time it costs less, this. He did the joint together with the schools. Why can't the generality do this in concert with the joints and joints with their own choices? Why can't we look for those mechanisms of cooperation and collaboration that allow all the schools in Catalonia to have these types of programs and that, therefore, no family is left out and no family has difficulty accessing text books? Because yes, a lot of innovation and digital pants and all that, but there are many schools..., and the system, our education system continues to include buying textbooks. With this program that I told you about Santa Coloma de Gramenet, families are saving around 230 euros a year per child. That's a lot of resources. Listen, all schools are covered by textbooks; the day they disappear, so, well, listen, this program, to the brush, and the money we dedicate to this, we'll dedicate it to something else. But as long as there are, textbooks, I wouldn't be hard to find solutions because no one has an impediment to accessing these books and school materials. Therefore, we do not understand, sincerely, Mrs Vallverdú, this whole thing, we do not understand the arguments that you give and, in any case, what I would like to expect from you is that on the very assumption that you are increasing the investment in education. Because he says to me, "No, look, it's not like we're going to approve of this, because I don't have a law. Well, then, I hope that there will be a significant increase in the education requirement. Because today the counselor is not because she's in California explaining the Catalan education system, which is good. But, listen to me, we're at the back end of Europe, huh? , we're at the back end of Spain, as long as we like to compare ourselves to the State. Home, then, we may have a few more resources and go explain things to California. But we're bringing a little bit of pie here too, because what I'd like is not to feel ashamed when I read some reports that we're on a low, embarrassing level, about the reversal that Catalonia devotes to education, when it's the basis of equal opportunities and the basis of equity. If we want to change this society, which is full of inequalities and poor children, we better bet on education. And that, many of the dozen who are here are deputies and they know it. So they won't accept this? Well, then, I hope that, as the counterpart, we will have some decent assumptions – worthy – that this reversal in Catalonia will increase. Honestly, I insist, I don't know which country they want to build. It seems to me that this proposal for the law of Ciutadans is a good proposal, which we can talk about and which, surely, with a process we could improve, with resources, obviously. They will not allow us to do this, they will not allow us to debate, they will not allow us to improve. Let us hope that the assumptions that I carry will improve the investment in education in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.224.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Next, there is the words of Ms.Jessica Albiach, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.225.0	Yeah, nice late everybody. What we find in this proposal of law of Ciutadans is one of the star proposals that the party carried during the electoral campaign, which is very well thought out, which gives many good headlines, that from the point of view of political marketing is impeccable, but that when you start to look at how the joint is planted, well, then you start to find certain elements that are a little disturbing. That said, we will abstain, because we consider that we do need debate on the financing of text books. And that's why we find ourselves in a band, some administrations, such as Catalan, such as Spanish, that have come out in an absolutely irresponsible way of financing textbooks of text reduced to levels practically irritating help and forcing families, each start of the course, to disburse – Mrs Sierra has already mentioned it – between two hundred and three hundred euros per child every September. On the other hand, we have certain schools which, prior to the inopportunity of public administrations, have begun to set up their own bookshelfs, well organized by AMPAs or well organized by the same schools, and are solving what does not solve the Administration. Why don't you say so? , we also find that at certain public centers the requirement is no longer just textbooks, but also electronic devices. And they're ousting, naturally, children from families with fewer resources who can't cope with this expense. But let's look at her proposal. We are talking about a system of book lenders with which we would, a priori, agree, not only because it allows economic education, but because, moreover, we find it an added value, such as education in responsibility, in the care of materials for infants and, moreover, also, well, we consider it more sustainable and makes us aware of the impact of our actions on the environment. To teach values, attitudes, too, and that would be a good way. Now, in the joint, as I said at first, we find certain aspects that we don't like, that we see them or deficient, of one band, or, of another band, dangerous, or at least disturbing. Of a band, he speaks exclusively of text books. I know you said 80 percent, didn't you? , would be for 80_percent of infants, because certain educational centers no longer use text books. Well, it's that in full 21st century, if we're defending centre autonomy not like the LOMCE defense, giving it all the power to address, but in some democratic school councils, we think that it's the same dozen that need to develop a cross-cutting content that remains compromised around the school and, therefore, it wouldn't feel to continue to affect the methodological model of the textbooks, which we believe is already completely obsolete. What we believe is that the text books are very good to make comparisons, to search, to contrast, but cannot be the central axis of the classroom methodology. In addition, he speaks exclusively of setting up the loan system in primary and secondary schools. We also believe that it would be necessary to get to the basic FP. And besides, he also says that the centers could voluntarily adhere to the prestec system or not. From which point should the centers ask to participate in this loan system, of a band, and what do we do with those families that participate or bring their children to public schools and the center decides that they do not adhere to the loan system? What do we do with these families? Then, we also find Article 9.1, which we find completely disproportionate, and it is what imposes sanctions to do a damage to the prestec system. You're talking about penalizing families who use the prestec system with the restriction of a right such as the election of the educational center. We think it's an arbitrariness that I can't pull in front of any of the ways. And finally, the point that we consider most dangerous and most disturbing, as I said to the principle, which is that of the issue of financing. The proposal of the law that deals with us suggests that the loan system will eventually take place at the expense of the premise of the same educational centre. And here he sees the important part; he says: "The assumptions of the teaching centers for this purpose can be endowed for the following means. He talks about the public system, which is very good and we share it, but, as Mrs Vallverdú has already commented, he also says: "And it can also be financed by private funding, donations, liberalisations, money or non-money contributions that can make physical or legal, public and private people. Clearly, and here... that's to say, what it's doing is opening the door directly to the private financing of our public schools, that's to say, with the perils that this entails; it's important that the patrons condition the ideological line of the educational center; it's important that there be determined editorials that decide to make a contribution to the change that is making to them the purchase of books, and it's important to have a double network, with educational schools, or so on, with public first and second grades according to the bank of books that they have. Of course, it's that we believe that what he does precisely is, instead of cohesion, absolutely break equity in education. In short, what we see is that they are trying to import the model of the United States, that it has mixed financing, that it is private and that it is public, and that they want to implant it in the Catalan schools, because if we believe that the textbooks are a right... First, if we think that the textbooks are necessary, that this is a first debate. And once we get over this debate, if we think it's really necessary, then it's the Administration that, by helping, has to finance these text books. That is why we think that it is no longer just a proposal for a law on free text books, but on free education, and that it is free school transport, that it is free school beggars, and obviously, if they fall, that it is free text books, because, planted as it is, we see that, from one band, it is like a piece because we change, and, from another, it is a trap because it diverts the focus from two debates that we consider important. One, as I have already commented, is that of free education and the other is that of methodological renewal. Do you or don't you text books? So what we can't do is take advantage of the generality and ministry's lack of reversal, too, to open, right? ... the lack of investment by the Generality and the Ministry of Education cannot be taken advantage of to open the door to private interests and capital to our schools. What we need to do is to shield public education and public school, and that's done with more money and social assumptions, but with social assumptions of truth, not those that say they're the most social in history, and then, when they're analyzed, they're not meant for the majority of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.226.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Next, there is the word María José García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.227.0	Thank you, President. Since the People's Party of Catalonia, we have not tabled an amendment in its entirety because we are in favour of reducing the costs of schooling for families. Because if education is compulsory by law and is free, and we invest significant amounts of our taxes in it, it does not make sense that the costs associated with this compulsory schooling, such as textbooks, are a barrier or a handicap for those students whose families are in a more unfavourable situation, de facto limiting their right of universal and free access to this compulsory education. Moreover, it must be considered that once education is compulsory it is not the will of families to take their children to school or not; it is that they have an obligation to do so. And for this reason it makes no sense, it would not be fair to impose on parents an economic injury, a cost that they may not be able to face, to fulfill a duty that is required by law. Let us not think that parents can always choose the center for their children. For example, they cannot choose a centre that does not have books on paper or that works with recyclable school materials. In short, by forcing their children to attend a concerted public centre, which affects them, we are forcing parents to bear the cost of schooling, and therefore it seems logical, fair, it seems sensible that the Administration, which obliges them to attend their children and which provides them with the available centre, should help them to bear and meet the costs associated with schooling. Citizens propose, in this proposal for a law, that this help to families be materialized through a structured, effective and transparent system of lending books from the centers to the students, and we agree. Another thing is that the text proposed to us succeeds. First, it should be considered whether or not enacting an autonomous law standard is the most appropriate channel for organizing this textbook lending system. And as a second question we have to assess whether the content of this bill is correct, it is clear and, above all, it is valid to achieve the purpose we share. With regard to the first question, we believe that a law is not the channel. Regulation is necessary, but we believe that it has rather a rank of order or regulation, because we understand that laws should enshrine principles of functioning, regulate general aspects, put in place systems that then develop and become concrete in lower rank rules. We believe that the task of the legislator is not to enter into the level of implementation of a regulation, and Citizens present to us a proposal for a law that seems like a regulation, because it enters into detail and develops issues as concrete as the eleven points that must contain the memory that each year must present to the Generalitat every center that provides books, for example. In our opinion, this wrong choice of channel denotes either ignorance of the different normative tools – for what each one serves, who takes care of what and why – or intends to inflate an exaggerated importance to the proposal of a measure that is important and that is correct, we have already said, but as if presenting it as a proposal of law the proposal would be more showy vis-à-vis the gallery. We don't need to make laws for everything. Moreover, making laws that do not only complicate and delay the implementation and improvement of the measures that are intended. In fact, it is not incidental that everything has its channel, and the reason that the detailed, concrete issues, which can be even cyclical, can be adjusted by amending a regulation is not because the adjustment is made more easily and more agile. Moreover, governments have the role and the obligation to develop and implement what we parliaments approve, and it makes no sense, even if it is an interference in their responsibility, that we adopt laws so detailed and concrete that they do not leave little room for the Government. We therefore believe that Citizens are mistaken in presenting this initiative as a proposal for a law, if what is really intended is to implement an effective and transparent system of lending text books, with agility and speed. With regard to the second question – content – we also do not think that the proposal is clear and, above all, valid in order to achieve the purpose proposed, without violating or confusing other rights or freedoms of our legal system. And we think that the problem lies precisely in the exaggerated and unnecessary desire for development and detail that the proposal has. In its desire to present a complete, comprehensive, showy, hard-working and deep law or to give the appearance of it, it gives us the feeling that the proposing group has gotten into something other than eggplant and, of course, has lost clarity. And we say it from respect for each other's legitimacy to work in their own way. But for us the proposal turns out to be confusing, because it mixes things of different rank, the principles are mixed with the details, and in the end the structure is not clear, and neither is the content. For example, the proposal, according to the title, deals with the right of citizens to access textbooks through a loan system; but then, in the law, in the objective, in the first article, it says that the objective is to achieve the maximum possible gratuity of textbooks and, where appropriate, the greatest reduction in their cost. It seems obvious that these are different things and that to achieve this objective the lending system will be an alternative, but not the only one, nor does the text justify us being the best. Later we are told inspiring principles of the system that seem to be related to other things. As, for example, one principle says that it is to promote chair freedom, which in any case must be respected, but that lending books or not lending them does not promote chair freedom. Or it also talks about "encouraging responsibility in the exercise of the educational function with the environment and the socio-economic situation, a phrase of dubious syntax and complicated semantics. In article 4, he introduced two rights, which were essential: the right of citizens to access textbooks through a loan system and the right of centres to create and maintain a book loan system. It seems to us that rights are confused with freedoms. Of course, in the case of the centres we believe that we should talk about that they will be free to establish such systems. And we also believe that the concept of essential law is being devalued in the case of citizens, who rather believe that free access to textbooks would be an essential right. The loan system will, as we have said, be an alternative, but not an essential right per se. There are still articles that reiterate this issue of rights or that enter into a surprising level of detail, for example, with the requirements that a centre must meet to access the book lending system, but mixing concepts that have nothing to do with it. For example, it appears as a fourth access requirement that the department will provide the means and develop a model system, which does not seem to be a condition that the centers must or can fulfil, but an obligation of the department; an isolated, decontextualized obligation, which should appear in the article that speaks of the obligations of the department, which is 13. Article 8 describes the system with ten points that, we believe, mix concepts: user obligations, information systems or what should appear on the center's website; again, we believe, a confusing exposition of issues of different level that also affect different actors in the system. Also in this article it is incorporated as a principle that the books will be owned by the centers, which could be questionable if we want it financed by the Generalitat and we also want it to be the cheap and efficient system. Nor is it justified why this system of ownership has been chosen. Article 9 begins to detail guarantees of use that are concrete in charging users an economic amount, detailing a number of exemptions, we believe, more fierce than necessary, if we are talking about annual amounts of about five or ten euros, affordable for the vast majority. However, in order to justify these exemptions, article 11 requires that the centre be provided with or given access to information from the family that we believe is personal, confidential and covered by the Data Protection Act, and that many families would not want to provide the centre, in order to protect their privacy from third parties, such as income received by family members, if they are all unemployed or if they receive subsistence benefits. This information is provided by the Administration, which is responsible for protecting and managing the information, and it is not the competence or responsibility of the centres. Article 10 raises the incongruity of charging a fee to enjoy a system that was defined as free; rates that do not seem effective either to hold users accountable, or to make them feel like partners, or to really help sustain the system. Then he talks about transparency, very briefly, in Article 12. Article 13 reasserts to the limit, in this case, the functions of the department, with a list of twelve exhaustive functions, with questions, we also believe, of different rank and urgency. Articles 14 and 15 deal with the financing of the system, appointing the actors but without detailing responsibilities, obliging..., for example, a minimum quota of participation could have been raised. Well, I'm done, in short, because time is running out. Nor does the law in its content seem to us to be entirely correct, clear or valid in order to achieve its purpose without violating other rights or confusing freedoms. We believe that the proposal has interventionist aims and economies of scale are not exploited. In short, the objective of the proposal is fair, it is shared by the People's Party, but neither the channel nor the development of the proposal deserve our approval. We would like this proposal to go through the presentation process and make amendments that will, above all, simplify, focus and clarify the proposal, eliminating the risks of interference, interventionism and confusion which, in our view, presents the proposal, as we have stated. We would like to present a shorter, more structured, clearer and more realistic text, because the important thing, the objective we share, is to put in place in Catalonia and, as soon as possible, a structured, effective and transparent system of lending textbooks to families, freeing them from economic burdens associated with compulsory schooling of their children. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.228.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next is the words of Mr Carles Riera, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.229.0	Thank you, President. Well, without wishing to hide the satisfaction that today is 9 November, the date on which this Parliament, for two times, has performed simple and legitimate acts of sovereignty – the consultation, first, and the declaration, after – I take advantage of the advent of this first intervention in the House of Parliament to send a greeting to the Members of the Chamber, members of the Government, to the Bureau and especially to the President, the very honorable Carmel Forcadell, who with his obedience to the democratic decisions of this Chamber and with his disobedience to the institutions of the State in this House, to the President, the very Honourable Carmel Forcadell, who with his obedience to the democratic decisions of this Chamber and with his disobedience to the Members of the House of Commons, to follow the way in which I am active in this Parliament, in this Chamber, as well as the House of Commons in Joan Com mission, the Mayor of Venice, the Governor of Venice, the Governor's Office, the Governor of the Governor's Office, the Governor's Office of Vienna, the Governor's Office of As I said, they mark our path, mark me the path to follow in my activity in this room from today. And, well, if taking advantage of the advent of my first intervention and this first salutation allow me yet a brief plea, I'll make them an anecdote – very briefly, eh? Very short. Because it turns out that the last time I was in this room, many and many years ago – I had not been from abroad again, twenty-five years ago long – it was a Wednesday, together with another companion of the Call to Solidarity that many of you knew well; we were just here to end up with the Spanish flag that we now have here at the back and, later on, to deliver it to the Synod of Greuges. Well, five years later, I hope and wish that soon it will be this Parliament that will decide to formally withdraw it, because we have already declared our country's independence. (Applause.) Well, said that – here I ended with my initial greeting – and to get into the matter, I will be very brief, because many things have already been said, I believe that most of the things that can be said about this proposal of the law, but I will obviously explain what our position will be and, quite briefly, the arguments. For what it does to this proposal of the law of Ciutadans for what it does to the subject of the textbooks of text, I must say that it is a proposal of uncertain law for what it does to the topic that it raises; certainly, it is a very important topic from the point of view of our school system and of the principle of equity, equality, etc., it is very uncertain from this point of view. But, on the other hand, we have to tell them that they are not uncertain either in the way they plant it or in the content and terms in which you make your proposal. As has already been said, let us consider, from the point of view of form, that it is not a theme, that it is not a proposal that falls under a law proposal, but rather that it would approach another type of standard ordering. Therefore, we will have to look for how to find the solution to this issue in another standard or legislative order, not that of a law proposal. But, entering the content, look, the CUP - Cry They constitute the defense of the gratuity of textbooks and school materials throughout the school population of public centers and at all levels of compulsory teaching, in any case prioritizing, in the transition processes, the return of families, therefore, with more difficulty; proposal that we will do at the moment and that we will analyze at the appropriate and relevant time. And I'm saying, especially subratlo, that we're talking about public centers. That is to say, we, as you know, what we want is that all the economic resources of our education system are intended for public centres in a focused way. We don't know if you in your proposal are providing for the possibility of starting from these resources that you provide for the text books that need to be taken out of the public archives as well as going to concerted centres, huh? In any case, we defend the total devoting of public resources to public centres and free text books and school materials for the entire population and in all mandatory teachings. Therefore, the proposal you are making is a piece that does not help us to move forward as quickly as possible and to move forward as quickly as possible with our model and with our goal and purpose. Okay. On the other hand, as has also been said in other interventions, we are totally opposed to your proposal to introduce private sponsorship and sponsorship into public education, as you put it in this proposal. Indeed, it seems that you want to bring our school system to the North American model, very long not only from us, but from the tradition of the state of European welfare, the European social state and the most advanced models in public education in the European context. But, on the other hand, without going into much detail, because I don't want to expand much further, obviously this system of private sponsorship that you propose can generate great inequalities between school centres and open the door, open a lock to a model for which we would not like to advance in absolute: that of private co-financing in public education, to which we will always oppose firmly. And it gives the feeling that you, through this textbook system, want to open the door – there, an opportunity key – to the possibility of moving towards a co-financing system. Okay. And lastly, as has already been said, but I want to put a special point, the lending and recycling of books – in any case, as a transitory and temporary figure while we do not get to full gratuity – is a practice that is already common in many public educational centres, at the initiative of associations of mothers and fathers, school councils, sometimes in collaboration with joint bodies. In any case, what would be good is to recognize, analyze, put in value, value these experiences, as I said, recognize them and collect them with all the organizational, human, technical and economic means necessary to put them in value; recognize them and serve as a reference of good practices in the face of, in transit, looking for models, therefore, of greater fairness while soloizing what is our objective, which is full gratuity. In any of the cases, we, therefore, will oppose your proposal for law, we will vote with the aim of totality, but it is an issue we want and hope to find ourselves - immediately in the debate of assumptions. Obviously, as has already been said in other interventions, this is a very important issue from the point of view of equality and equity policies in the teaching of our country and we cannot leave it for tomorrow. You know that for the CUP - Crida The subject of education, the subject of teaching, is a central battle horse, it is one of our priorities, from the point of view of the subject of presupposition, not only for the subject of books, but also because we consider this to be a neo-legal and claus subject, not only for public teaching and for the school centres of the present moment of autonomy, but also for what we are doing in these presuppositions, at this point in time for the school centres of today, also branded, also points to ways of the model of public teaching that we want for the future, for our independent country. The premise always has this duality: it aims at intentions not only at the management of the moment, but at the strategic models, at the conceptual models that you want to apply in your country, in the future. Therefore, as for us, indeed, public education in our country is a fundamental factor that must define our national identity, from a point of view of equality of opportunity, equity and high quality of public education, we want and hope to find this subject again in the debate of assumptions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.230.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.231.0	In accordance with Article 88.1 of the Rules, to make a call to the observance of the Rules.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.232.0	You do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.233.0	Thank you. Article 86.1 says that in its turn, Members must bear in mind the question that is under discussion. And this function, according to Article 83.4, corresponds to the President of the Parliament, who must call to order those Members who depart from the question that is under discussion. We have just witnessed an intervention that, in a term greater than its 50_per_cent, has strayed from the question that was under discussion. Therefore, I would like to thank the Bureau – and the President in particular – for having made the Regulation of the Chamber complete.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.234.0	You know, Mr. Rodriguez, there have been other groups that have made interventions of this type. You know that very well. And in any case, I believe that this Bureau can interpret whether or not it fits the Rules. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Sierra, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.235.0	For contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.236.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.237.0	Thank you, Madam President. I'm still trying to get back from all the excuses they've made for not voting for free text books and all the interpretations they've made of this law, which aren't there. In any case, I have already said, it is certainly much better; but in order to be able to improve, it is necessary to give the opportunity to enter the process and to be able to submit papers. And why be clear: I studied in public school and worked my whole life in public school, so I won't be able to find myself in private. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-11-09-2501.238.0	Thank you. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The emena has been rejected for... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He forgave – he forgave –, he forgave. The speech to the totality presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si was accepted, pardoned, by 71 votes in favour, 47 against and 10 abstentions. Therefore, this proposal of law, this initiative, remains rejected. Many thanks to everyone, and they suspect the session until tomorrow morning.
