ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.1.0	The session begins. Very late in the day, all of them. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before I enter the order of the day, I have to inform them, sadly, that two women have died as a result of male violence this September, to the Mafumet people and to Barcelona. According to the official data of the Department of Interior and the Catalan Institute of Donations, it is about the sisena and the seven fatal victims of the year for male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn these crimes and express the most sincere condolences to family and friends. So, I repeat Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women. In accordance with Rule 72.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it may have called for the postponement of the next plenary session of the 9th item on the agenda, referring to the proposed law amending Law 12/2009 of 10 July 2009 on education to guarantee secularism. If there is no objection or objection, will you consider this proposal accepted? [[Pause.]] Okay. According to the Board of Spokesmen of 29 November, this plenary session will begin with the substance of the first item on the agenda, relating to the draft law of assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for the year 2017. Regarding questions with oral answer, which correspond to the second point of the order of the day, I inform you that the list of questions is in the file of the Ple. According to Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, the record that will be used tomorrow will be reduced to the gods of the morning. Thus, I am sure that, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, the Member of Parliament, Assumption Laïlla, of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes, has delegated his vote to the chairman of his parliamentary group, Mr Jordi Turull. [[Project of the Law of Presuppositions of the Generalitat of Catalonia for 2017 (exmenes to the totality)]] [[200-00019/11]] And now, the first item on the agenda is: debate and vote on the papers to the totality of the Government of Catalonia's Bill of Presumables for the year 2017. The debate and voting of the items to the totality will be substantiated in accordance with the establishment of Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. The order of defence of the documents is from major to minor, for a maximum of thirty minutes for each parliamentary group. In the first place, for the presentation of the Bill of Presuppositions Project, has the word Lord Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.2.0	Good afternoon to everyone. Thank you, President. Let's start the presentation of this presupposition project... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We begin the presentation of this project of assumptions referring to some questions that have also focused our attention at a minimum at other times of this legislature and, above all, from before, and we have often explained the enormous difficulties with which we will find a good part of our economies or the economies of our environment when we face the volumes of public debt and the volumes of money offered on the markets. Sometime we have also hinted at how this can be altered and can have far-reaching consequences before possible – and every time more likely in one term every time shorter – I mean, an increase in the type of interest and the consequences that this could have. Without going any further and to set a relatively close example that a few days ago I had occasion to present before Minister Montoro, in concrete terms, and Vice President Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría, an increase in the interest rate of a 1_per_cent would entail an increase in the cost of servicing the debt of the Kingdom of Spain of 10,000_millions per year. Therefore, they are times we have here in front of us, which is good to do, it seems to me, because it is good also to be aware not only of the immediateities of this moment, but also of the scenes that can be produced in the future. We present a presuppositional proposal, a project of assumptions that you intend, among many others, to take advantage of circumstances that are relatively favourable, compared to what we have experienced in the past few years, and that may be relatively favourable to some scenes like the ones we just mentioned, that are produced in the future more or less immediately. And here too the importance, the relevancy of achieving to the maximum possible to take advantage of these relatively favourable circumstances to strengthen our ability to face future challenges. In this sense, it should be noted that, despite all the bad news, that there are many, well-known for everyone, despite all the bad news, the Catalan economy grew by 3.4_per_cent in 2015. The initial forecast for 2016 was around 2,9_per_cent; from the first quarter– and we had occasion to explain it in this room on various occasions–, it produced an increase in our gross domestic product higher than the forecasts there were at that time, and we would end the year around, another time, of 3,4_per_cent, repeating, therefore, the percentage of growth that was produced in 2015. This had some difficulties – achieving these growth levels had some difficulties. From the outset, giving continuity to an important growth, because it is obvious that we start from higher levels and, therefore, this growth implies, in absolute terms also, a more important growth, even though in percentage terms it is the same as the previous year. But also because there have been developments in the context of international politics and the international economy that could have made this growth difficult and, despite this, growth has remained and is a very remarkable growth. In fact, on some occasions we have said that if the official forecast of growth is completed in view of the year 2017, that it is a forecast located around 2.7_per_cent– so good, like the year 2016, we can go a little further than that–, if this forecast of growth of 2.7, we would end the year 2017 with a gross domestic product of 232,000_million euros. It is a resounding xifra, especially if we take into account that during the most complicated years of a crisis that has not yet ended and that in many aspects continuous, badly, well alive – then we will have occasion to analyze it – I mean, we have become accustomed to it that in the hardest years of the crisis, repeatedly, we have had several years in which the gross domestic product in Catalonia was around 200,000_millions and, therefore, the repetition and also the round xifra has made that, on some occasions, we have become accustomed to saying that the gross domestic product in Catalonia is 200,000_millions. To find that, if the official forecast for 2017 is complete, we will end the year with 232,000_millions, gives a very clear idea of the change in the magnitude of our gross domestic product, an increase of 32,000_millions_on_200,000_millions is very important and connects with what it gave the intervention engineer that we must do everything possible to take advantage of the circumstances that are more favorable than those that we have experienced in the previous years and perhaps, in some respects, more favorable than those that will affect us, according to how the conjunction of the global economy behaves, to achieve a solid, stable growth, of our economy, which also helps us to face the challenges of the future in all our senses: productive capacity, generation of jobs, fiscal recovery skills, sustainability of the public, etc. And the given, the given of these 232,000_millions is, sense doubt, a given very relevant in this sense. We will draw up... – I make a point about the great elements of this presuppositional project. We'll work out... - Then we'll try to analyze them one by one, huh? But to have an initial panoramic view, I'm going to do this over a little generic. We also draw up this forecast taking into account some data that come from donations, such as, for example, a deficit relief figure which, in the later Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, was set at 0.6 per cent. You know that we voted against it, because it seems to us that it is a prediction that it is absolutely far removed from what would correspond, from what would be just, from what the Catalan society's effort deserves, also far removed from the recommendations of the Airef, of the Independent Authority of Fiscal Responsibility, far removed from what we understand to be the interpretation of the law, and that our position is that it should be around 1.18 percent and not 0.6 percent, so practically twice as much as what the Spanish Government imposed. Remember that these six-tenths of difference, almost six-tenths of difference between what would seem to us to correspond and what the Spanish government has imposed is a figure that went beyond the 1,300 million euros and, therefore, a very – very – substantial figure. They are assumptions, too, that they have an increase in unfunded and non-finalistic inputs of a 7,8_per_cent; we will see how this increase is so significant and what elements allow us, which are the instruments that enable us to enable this type of growth, and this also contributes, in this initial overview, to drawing a non-funded and non-finalistic expenditure for the joint of the departments of about 22,600_million euros, of which, 74,7_per_cent are destined for the joint of social policies, taking into account that we have strictly respected the accounting methodology, the comptability, the incorporation, which parties traditionally incorporated into this framework, in order to facilitate comparison with the assumptions of the previous exercises. All folded, this important growth, bearing, of our economy, of 3,4_per_cent for two years consequent, the forecast of the increase of 2,7_per_per_cent and also the progressive reduction, among other things, because thus it imposes on us, let us say it, more than if it seems to us more opportune or less opportune, more just or less just, let us say it, but the progressive reduction of the margins of deficit implies that, for the first time in a very long time, there is planned for this combination, for this combination of factors, a reduction of the debt expressed in terms of gross domestic production. This is a very remarkable fact because it is innovative, and it is also very remarkable because it does not stop easy to find around us and, therefore, a relevancy, that it is obvious that it has some positive aspects; it also has some denial, if we have room to make decisions about the jointness of our debt capacity, about our ability to generate deficiency. In any case, we will have occasion to analyze it in the continuation of the presentation of this presuppositional project and, probably, also, as the answer to the questions, to the interventions that you or some of you, therefore, have occasion to do in the proper hours, because this is a debate, as you know, fortunately long, that allows us to explain many things to each other. In a little more detail – I have now made this general view of the budget project – in each of these aspects. This good behaviour of the Catalan economy, this growth of 3,4 in 2015, 3,4 in 2016, forecast of 2,7 by 2017, was equipped, this good behavior, was also related to a relatively good behavior in comparative terms, taking into account we come, extraordinarily good; taking into account where we want to go, therefore, never so good, because we would always want to go more there respecting the behavior of the labor market, the creation of jobs, etcetera. The creation of jobs by the year 2016 will have surpassed the ninety-thousand jobs. The forecast for 2017, also related to the differential, with the forecast of growth, is almost in the seventy-thousand places of work for 2017. It is an increase of 2.2_per_cent in full-time work places and allows us, at these times, to have located ourselves..., we came from 2015 at a rate of 18.6_per_cent, 18.6_per_cent in 2015, we are at these times, at the end of the third quarter of this year 2016, in 14.6, and we will start the 2017 exercise in 14.4. Therefore, it is a difference, as you can see, very high, of more than four percentage points between 2015 and the beginning of 2017. It is an economic behaviour and a behaviour of the labour market that is explained by a growth that is robust, that is not only solid, it is not only rapid..., you think that we are growing twice as fast as the euro area average and the forecast for the year that it continues to be practically twice as fast as the growth rate of the Catalan economy respects the euro area average; therefore, it is not only solid, it is not only rapid, at least in terms of how we are more logically and more easily comparable, but also a robust growth, among other things for its enormous diversity. Therefore, all these elements, all these adjectives that accompany this growth, an intense growth, a robust growth and a diverse growth, which have some of their exponents, for example, in the good behavior of exports. You think that the external sector, and in concrete terms the external balance of our economy, brings in the conjunction of our growth a 0.5_per_cent. Therefore, it is a very substantial part of this growth that we have now been describing. And the increase in exports is located more than 6_per_cent, and in those elements linked, for example, to the sectors of higher technology, more than two digits, therefore, more than 10_per_cent. In the same way it has also had a very remarkable behavior..., and with the consolidated data that we have, therefore, the firm data that we have for 2015, for the closing of 2015, to the hope of how exactly these same data are tanked for 2016, it respects the foreign direct investment, with an increment of 60_per_cent respect to which it has produced, for example, in the years 2012-2013, that it was years that were already clearly over the years prior to the beginning of the crisis. This growth, which has obvious positive aspects in the capital of fiscal recovery, in the sustainability of public services, etc., is not always so fast and is not always distributed as well as probably many here present, at least this one who speaks to you at this time, so they would want to. Therefore, here it is evident that we have significant shortcomings, that our society continues to paint very significant shortcomings and that some sectors of our society, in particular those people who are in a situation of attitude, of long duration, etc., so they continue to experience a complicated, hard situation, and it is evident that, at least in this sense, the crisis that in others seems to be going on in these concrete times, so it continues to feel a well-living and well-relevant crisis. And, therefore, it is clear that we must do everything possible to put the resources available, to put the capacity of our company's joint venture in the service of those who at these times suffer more for their present difficulties as well as for their capacity to reintegrate into work or their capacity to train for the future. That said, as we explain in the development of the forecasts of the parties of expenditure and of the reversal of respect for the departments, it is one of the great objectives, the greatest of the objectives of this assumption, to assist these sectors which are most difficult to achieve. That said, it seems to me to be a sign that, despite all the bad things, as we say, before, despite the continuity of the worrying aspects, of the negative aspects that are produced in our economy and in our social reality, there have been indications that, from one side to another, there is a certain optimism; from the other, also to the consciousness of the very things that are produced in our economy and in our social reality, there have been indications that, from one side to another, there is a sense of optimism; from the other, there is also the awareness of the very things that are left to me, and there is only one thing that is left to me, and there is only one thing that is left to me. Not at all, from these facts that you have this ambivalence, that you have this double dimension. In one band, for example, the reduction in the percentage of the population at risk of poverty, which increased in 2014 from 20.9 to 19_per_cent in 2015, the end of 2015, a trend that has clearly remained or even accelerated in 2016, pending to hold the definitive data, therefore, a reduction of almost two points in respect of the population as a whole – respect for the population as a whole – therefore, a very important figure for what makes the population at risk of poverty; the Arope tax has also fallen from 26 to 23.5, or the percentage of the population at risk of severe poverty has also fallen substantially: respect the population as a whole in more than 1_per_cent; respect the same rate, respect the people at risk of severe poverty, and find themselves in a situation of poverty, close to 10? In the same way also in indicators that do not strictly refer to poverty and inequality, but rather to income – although it is obvious that they are all linked – a reduction in the dispersion according to Gini's index from 33 to 32.3 and a reduction in the dispersion of yields that represent 20_percent of higher yields compared to 20_percent of lower yields, with a reduction from 6.5 to 6; a gradual reduction in the debt of the lars, and an increase in the purchasing capacity of these lars, of the families of the country. All this panorama of economic growth, said – and now we enter a chapter that we have already announced in the initial presentation – also entails an increase in the capacity of tax recovery, and, therefore, public entries increase as much for the good behavior of the economy as for the deployment of tax measures that have been implemented at the length of the last exercises, as at least since the September 2012 until today, and also take into account the proposals incorporated in this draft of assumptions and other measures that are not strictly incorporated in this draft of assumptions but that we will have occasion to debate earlier, said, and that we will also have time to analyse tomorrow in detail, in the debate on the draft of measures. In order to give the big figures, let's say, there is an increase, an evolution of the tickets not financed and not finished for the tickets of what are called the "beast tickets", that is, those tickets that are derived from the fiscal effort made by the citizens of Catalonia and that revert in the same year that they are making these efforts, with an increase of 1,200_millions; an increase..., incorporating these also, huh? , taking into account in these, a total increase of these beasts and liquidations of 2,700_millions, therefore, an increase of 2,700_millions, to which we add the increase derived from the taxes due and given, some 784_millions, to which, however, it is necessary to retain almost 2,000_millions– I say this in order not to generate any type of expectation that after that is not corresponding to reality – i.e., these 2,700_millions corresponding to the system of beasts and the system of liquidation more than 784_millions that are derived from these taxes due and given, etc., to remain there almost 2,000_millions, the fruit of those parties that have been incorporated into the assumptions of 2015 but which are no longer coming to reality, so long as to limit the execution of this policy, so far as it is not possible to achieve this. All folds draw an increment, taking into account all these figures, of 1,600_millions respect the assumptions approved in year 15. It gave the principle of my intervention that some of the elements of this presuppositional proposal depend on decisions taken by others, in this case, in particular, the decision referring to the remedy of deficiency. Many of the groups present in this Parliament share with us the analysis that the deficiency floor is poorly distributed both from a vertical perspective and from a horizontal perspective. And I insist that this is either agreed with the authority, the Air Force, or there are other bodies. I would also like to say that it is obvious that the fact that we do not agree or that we follow many in this room that we do not agree does not mean that we have more availability than we have. It seems to me, therefore, that the two things are certainly at the same time. It is clear that the Government appreciates and appreciates the fact that there are other groups that match us to this value, I am also convinced that everyone is aware that the fact that we disagree badly at these times does not yet imply that we have a major presuppositional endowment and that – and it seems to me that this is also important to say now and probably so important that we will also say later – all non-funded deficit ends up with a debt respect to the provider. And hence the importance of trying to complete or try to be realistic so as not to charge against the providers or not to charge the debt against the providers. Then we'll make a reference a little more precise. Another of the elements..., I mean, there are elements that intervene in the design of this presuppositional project that unfortunately we cannot decide yet, even though it is obvious that we work to be able to decide them all; another of the elements is the increment of the beasts, that is, the increment of the money that is the result of the fiscal effort that makes the conjunction of our society that we directly receive in this same exercise. And here we find ourselves in front of a fact – that perhaps it would deserve the qualification of illegal, but it is perhaps much more so than most of the present ones would want and so it may not be unusual – and it is that the Spanish government, suggesting that it is in a situation of presuppositional prorogation, which is to say that its forecast of distribution is the same quantity, is for the same amount that it distributed in the previous exercise. But on the other hand, tax collection is obviously much higher, because the economy has behaved positively, production has increased, work places have increased, tax collection has increased, but on the other hand, the same amount that was allocated at the beginning of 2016 is assigned to the joint sub-state administration. And the difference of all this growth, all that is derived from this growth, at least at the moment, if I have the Spanish Government left in the hope of the supposed, or the possible, or the likely, we will see, approval of some assumptions for the Spanish Government, on behalf of the Spanish State. Another of the elements that we have here, that we have all folds, that condition the presupposition project, is the liquidation corresponding to the infancy, to the underdoing of these same beasts respect to the year 2015. We have also explained on various occasions, and not because of the fact that we have explained it on various occasions, we have to stop explaining to you the enormous import you have, that the Spanish Government systematically calculates the estimates of fiscal replenishment at the lower end and this does not benefit the citizens who make this effort until the end of two years supposedly, normally at the end of two years and seven months, with a single exception that it was the decision of the Ministry of Health of March to pay to the one who had been due from the beginning of two years corresponding to the first third of 2016; the only exception that there was in this sense. This differential, this low-cost calculation, this low-cost system calculation of the tax recovery forecasts, makes the liquidation corresponding to 2015 for this 2017 amount to 1,600_million euros, huh? , which is what we just mentioned in the increase in presupposition skills a while ago. There is another part of this greater availability, of these major fiscal entries, and therefore of this greater availability at the time of making efforts in social policies and also at the time of pushing the growth of our economic activity..., because we must never forget that one of our objectives – it should be everyone's – is not only to guarantee the best possible assumptions for the time being, but also to ensure that the assumptions are the best possible ones in the years ahead, and therefore we also have this back from the momentum, from the continuity of this economic activity that supports this recovery, and, therefore, this ability to make an effort in this matter, even from the point of view of the present, of the continuation of this economic activity, as well as to ensure that the assumptions are the best possible ones in the years that come, and therefore we also have this back from the momentum, from the continuation of this economic activity that is supporting this recovery, and, therefore, from this ability to make an effort in this matter, from the point of departure, from the point of departure, from the point of departure of the main source, from the project. And I do the listing, because it seems to me that it's up to me to do it and that it's opportune to do it. The creation of a tax on sugar-excess drinks; the creation, too, of a tax on the environmental risk of production, manipulation and transport and custody and the emission of radioactive elements, and, besides, this should add up to what we would discuss tomorrow, huh? I insist that it refers to the non-productive act of legal persons. And also the listing, this time, of taxes modified to increase its collection, and, therefore, the ability we have to put it to the service of our society in the form of public services, respect the tax on property transfers, on the tax on documented legal acts, the tax or taxes on the game, the tax on large commercial establishments, the tax on stays in tourist establishments, also the deduction on the tax on empty habitats, and the modification of the deductions of the IRPF. This set of fiscal figures, excluding the non-productive actius in the hands of legal persons that we will already deal with the own said, this set of nine fiscal figures and modification of existing figures has an implication in the concrete budgetary project of 2017 of 110_million euros plus, and for a full year, since not all of them will be able to enter into force since the 1st generation of 2017, among other things because the assumption will not be approved on that date, for a value of more than 180_million euros for a full year, eh? Therefore, the result of the fiscal effort that is derived from this presuppositionary project, if approved, will generate in a full year more than 180_million euros nous, which are attached to the conjunction of new availability, to which we referred a while ago. And here, another date that's picking up. This fiscal effort is not a fiscal effort that is produced only, or expected, for this exercise and is contained in this proposal, in this presuppositionary project, but it seems to us that it would also be useful to see the combination of the effort that has taken place in the past years, and especially since the September 12th, for reasons you already know, until the present time. Here, the set of measures adopted that have consequences in the compilation planned for 2017 and, therefore, for the presuppositional availability, if the project is approved, is more than 1,280_million euros. Therefore, it is not only that there is a forecast in this project of EUR 180_million more, but that the set of measures adopted beyond the previous exercises as a result of a major availability, a greater availability of more than EUR 1,280_million of fiscal effort that our company makes. And here the list is also a high list: tax on the assets, with the recovery and the increase of the tribute. It is a fiscal figure that has recovered the Government of the People's Party in the case of the Spanish State, but that some sub-state administrations have decided to increase in the cent_per_cent, which we have not done, and that it has as a consequence a fiscal recovery forecast for 2017 of €517_million. But also other decisions that are all of them..., not only for the non-deduction, but for the combination of the measures that have been taken for the Administration, for the Government of Catalonia, as modifications in the legal acts documented, tax on hydrocarbons, tourist establishments, commercial establishments, property transfers, reform of the inheritance tax, reform of the civil protection tax, taxation on the game. And we believe that some of them have been created in these past years, among others..., some of them voids, other suspicions and others in operation, let us say this, for example: the levy on credits; the levy on the supply of supplies by providers of electronic communications services; the levy on the production of electrical energy of nuclear origin; the levy on the emission of gases and particulates into the atmosphere; the levy on the emission of nitrogen oxides into the atmosphere produced by commercial aviation; the levy on empty habitats; the levy on the emission of sugar, which we have just commented on; the levy on the emission of nitrogen oxides into the atmosphere produced by commercial aviation; the levy on empty habitats; the levy on excess sugar drinks, which we are talking about; the levy on the emission of nitrogen oxides into the atmosphere produced by commercial aviation; the levy on the levy on empty habitats; the levy on the emission of sugar, which we are talking about; the levy on the emission of nitrogen into the atmosphere produced by commercial aviation; the levy on empty habitats; the levy on the emission of excess sugar, which we are also referring to production. All this package, all this package together, the one from the past years and the one from the forecast for this presuppositional project draws a larger recap of more than 1,280_million euros. Certainly, a xifra more or less equivalent, in fact a little lower, to the benefits that would result if the deficit relief in place of being unjustly imposed on 0.6, as in the corresponding, which is in the 1,18. It seems to me that this type of order of magnitude comparisons are also useful at the time of hearing the responsibility of the various public administrations in the presuppositional availability that benefits the citizens of this country. We also give in the generic presentation, the initial presentation, in the summary presentation that we made at the beginning, that the binomial that is produced between the good behavior of our economy and the growth of the gross domestic product, singularly, and, on the other hand, the sustained reduction of the levels of deficit – among other things, because thus it is imposed on us – draws also a reduction of the debt expressed in terms of gross domestic product. In concrete terms, for what it does to the deficit, the peak point was produced in the year 2010. It's also a catch, because it's possible that someone compares some game to the game that was in place in 2010 and it's possible that when you make this comparison, if you're right, you remember also who were the possible deficit levels in 2010 and who were the deficit levels at these times. In concrete terms, the maximum was produced, i.e. in 2010, with almost 4.5_percent of the gross domestic product. The following year was held at important levels, per over 4_per_cent, 2011; i always over 2_per_cent, or prop of 2_per_cent, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. The trend is low – the trend is low – also in this 2016, in which we had to..., the forecast, the decision imposed for the Spanish government was 0.7, very far from the 4th and mid-2010, or more than 4.1 of 2011. We'll see exactly where we're done; probably around '1; not '0.7, but around '1, probably. And the official forecast, also decided for the Spanish government, for the year you see, is 0.6 – 0.6. This reduction in the deficit, this progressive reduction in the deficit, and, therefore, the fact of not charging the debt respects some providers, or respects the provider in general, has also entailed some positive aspects for the proper functioning of the economy and also social policies. From the start, because in this 2016_has been possible to reduce the pending payment, the set of unpaid invoices, in almost 3,000_million euros. And that's also a very uplifting fact, because it's obvious he hasn't been able to make nine measurements yet. Among other things, because some of the measures that had been implemented could not have been financed, and as important as financing nine is financing those that were compromised. Therefore, this given, these 2,860_million reduction in outstanding payment invoices is a very remarkable xifra. Among other things, because among these suppliers who have seen benefits there are, above all, those who are listed in the last positions, according to the legal regulations that was decided, as you know, for the great Spanish political parties, now a few years ago. Therefore, this has been, in principle, to providers of social services, health concerts, residents of large people, entities of the third sector in general, etcetera. Also at the time of the Government of Catalonia's commitment to the municipalities, to the assemblies. And, therefore, also a greater capacity of the assemblies to deal with their obligations, both in the form of payment of the services services from which the citizens of each of the municipalities of this country benefit, as well as the greater capacity of these municipalities at the time of facing, for example, public work in their respective municipal terms. And this reduction in the payment pending of nearly 3,000_million euros was also accompanied, as well as..., another face of that same coin is the reduction of the half-time period of payment, which as of November – now a year ago, roughly – of 2015, was in sixty-seven days and which was reduced to thirty-nine days, and therefore at the end of September 2016 was in twenty-eight days; therefore, from sixty-seven to twenty-seven, with a reduction of thirty-nine days, in the medium term of payment. The behavior of the debt in terms of GDP – we explained a while ago – has stopped its growth. The most intense increases in debt resulted respectively in the year 2010, 2008 and 2011. It is also related to the figures we say a while ago, respecting the deficit of 2010 – 4.50..., more than 4.5 – and 2011 – more than 4.1. Thus, the most important increases in debt were produced, respectively and by this order, the year 2010, the year 2008 and the year 2011. From then on, the growth of the debt has been moderate, and the growth of the debt foreseen in this presupposition proposal for 2017 is a growth of the debt of '1.6_per_cent; a 1.6_per_cent more of the debt. However, as expressed in terms of GDP, and as well as the good behaviour of the country's gross domestic product, this reduction in debt, expressed in GDP, by 0.4. And, therefore, the volume of debt respects GDP, which 2016 will practically end at the same level as 2015 – a 35.8 respects a 35.7 – will be reduced to a 35.4 if this forecast for 2017 is completed. Therefore, the expenditure, the ability of the Government of Catalonia to spend and invest grows thanks to the major entries – we have just explained –, it also grows for the reduction of interests, but it is damaged by the availability of a smaller deficit. In total, the departmental expenditure limit, together with the departments of the Generalitat de Catalunya, increases by 1,521_million euros. How is this greater availability distributed? In four broad areas: equal opportunities and reduction of inequalities, public services, economic growth and productive sectors, and finally transparency, evaluation and institutional development. I bring some of the added data that seems to us to be perhaps more relevant to hear the presuppositional project. The departments that are most benefited by this increase in their ability to spend and invest are, by this order: the Health Department, with almost 410_millions additionally respect the 15's assumption; the Education Department, with almost 340_millions more respect the 15's assumption; the Territorial and Sustainability Department, with almost 200_millions more respect the 15's assumption; the Treball Department, Social Affairs and Families, also with almost 200_millions, 194_millions respect the 15's assumption, and all folded represents this increase in the total expenditure of the departments, of the spending capacity of the departments. The 77_per_cent of this increase goes to social expense. In other words, 74.7 of the total amount of the budget is concentrated in social policies, 74.7 of the total amount of the budget; but from the point of view of increasing the budget there is 77_per_cent. In concrete terms, the data that I have just mentioned are these 410_millions approximately in Health; 340 approximately in Education; 194 in Work, Social Affairs and Families; a share of the assumption of Territory and Sustainability for all that it refers to public transport, and also the share corresponding to universities, the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge, with 46.5_millions additional, and the share corresponding to habitat of the Department of Governance, Public Administrations and Habitatage, with 29_millions more destined for habitatation complies with the assumption of 15. This sum of these amounts, which I have just donated, draws an increase in the number of social parties, in absolute terms, of 1,170 million plus– 1,170 million plus – in accordance with the premise of the 15th, okay? Therefore, we have 74.7_percent of the total budget earmarked for these social policies, 77_percent of the increase in the budget and, in absolute terms, it means 1,170_million more euros earmarked for these social areas, encapsulated by Health and Education. And I'm pointing out a few... I'm zooming in a little bit tighter on some of these departments. In concrete terms, for example, for what it does to the Department of Education, we have a forecast of 3,600, 3,599 more teachers by 2017, and, therefore, we will place ourselves in the maximum number of primary and secondary teachers of history to attend the increase in the number of students, but also to deal with the needs of the centres of maximum complexity, concretely, 237 schools, 103 institutes, to strengthen inclusive school, to improve the replacement of teaching staff, 12_million more in minimum scholarships, a 27_percent more in resources for the units of shared schooling and, as has been the case for some time, 46,5_million more in university. In the field of Health, of these 410_millions almost plus presuppostary increases respect to 2015, the most important parties are 128_millions destined to cover the increase of prescriptions and of our already approved medicines, these medicines – remember that in many cases they are approved by administrations that do not bear the costs, but that they pass to other administrations–; 35 additional ones to reduce the lists of hope; 83_millions additionally for hospital medicine and ambulatory dispensation; 26_millions more for the better of infrastructures and sanitary equipment, and a game also very relevant, almost 100_millions, 99_millions more for the better of the model of care to people, however, with mental health problems, as well as knowledge, to the better. For what it does to the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families, the 194_millions more respect the premise of the 15 is distributed in 42_millions more for the home care service; 18_millions more for the care of children and adolescents at risk; 20_millions more for the special work centres; 70_millions more for the economic performance and for the policies of insertion, the guaranteed minimum income. And I finish, perhaps not to continue the zoom on the various departments, with a brief reference to the housing share of the Department of Governance, Public Administrations and Habitatge, and also to the public transport share that refers to the Department of Territories and Sustainability, in concrete terms with 13_million additional for the attention to housing emergence and the policy of denunciations by economic and social cause, a part of this derives from the tax on empty habitats that is intended for these housing policies, and 19_million for the Development Fund of the Barrier Program. And in the area of Territories, 58_millions for the extension of railway lines; 62_millions_i_mig for the ATM, more respect to the premise of 15; 9_millions for bus lines, express buses, and 9_millions more to continue the work of the 9 and 10 metro lines in the Free Zone. For the other three priority areas of expenditure, that of public workers, the assumption provides for an endowment of 6,923 more, basically teaching staff, about 3,600; more than 1,600 in the health field, and 276, for example, in the area of team mossss. There is a part of the presuppositional increase that is not an increase in the total available for the departments, because there is also an increase in the transversal funds, among other things, because they have to face up to the payment of part of the extra pay that was pending since 2012, and also because we make a reservation in anticipation of the possible increments of the remuneration to the public workers that is being decreed for the regulation of basic character, huh? With regard to the growth of the economy, there are 57_million more for the modernization of agricultural and fisheries infrastructure; 100_million more for employment programmes; 21_million more for Action; 12_million more for research; a total – no more, but a total – of 660_million for the Catalan Institute of Finance – 488_million in loans, 155_millions behind and 17_millions in venture capital investments; 145_millions in the maintenance of paths; 20_millions in investments linked to the water cycle; 21 in the prevention and recovery of residues; 16_millions in telecommunications infrastructure; 5_millions in natural infrastructure; 23_millions in the protection of natural resources; 23_millions in the prevention and recovery of biodiversity; 16_millions in telecommunications infrastructure. Here, in this environment, in the sense of doubt, we are at very long levels, much lower in the field of investment in infrastructures that had been produced at the maximum times. The maximum time was 2009. Here too it must be borne in mind that in those years there was a part of this reversal which is made through structured financing, which is also largely responsible for the limitations of our ability to reverse in the present time, because we are facing the payment of those structured financings. So, we're on top of those; still, it's also true that we're on the highest levels of the last five years, huh? , with 1.575_million inversion. And for what it does to the institutional development, therefore, there is all the deployment of the tax agency, with all the positive aspects, all the externalities that result in the greatest capacity of future recapturation, with the deployment of the offices and, therefore, to relieve us of the payments that at these times were made to other agents that intervened in this process, among others, also the same Ministry of Hisenda, or the deployment of the set of measures intended to promote citizen participation, the impulse of electronic voting, etc. It seems to me that, as the initial presentation of the preliminary draft, we have given ourselves a general idea of the resources we have at our disposal, of the priorities in expenditure and investment, of the global picture in which we find ourselves situated, of the behaviour of our economy, of our gross domestic product and of our ability to generate jobs, of the challenges that continue to lie in the sphere of poverty, in the sphere of the long-term nature, of the difficulties in the distribution of income between a significant part of our society, and as a good part of the budgetary effort was intended precisely to deal with these difficulties, with this percentage of 74.7_per_cent destined for these social policies – the percentage more perceptual than it has been in the past, and thus, in other words, rather than in the past. In any case, also launch a message of optimism. Of difficulties we have many, if 'nsen pose many, if 'nsen pose many every day, but, in change, it is also evident that our economy and our society are able to get out 'n, are able to advance. There are sectors that continue to paint, and therefore, to which we try to devote, through this presuppositionary project, the better of our collective capacities, the better of our ability to work every day and to collect and generate resources, convinced as we are that, in this case, social justice is also an absolutely fundamental pillar of the capacity for future growth and, therefore, of the sustainability of social justice in the future. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.3.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. In order to defend the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr. Antonio Espinosa has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.4.0	Well, thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Mr President, Vice-Presidents, Members of Parliament and the people who are accompanying us in the rostrum. It is well known that the Parliamentary Group of Citizens has tabled an amendment to the whole that we are going to maintain and defend today. I would like to begin by pointing out that the Government of the Generalitat, through the Vice-President and Counsellor of Economics and Finance, has presented us with a rather idyllic economic panorama and budgets that from Citizens we cannot describe in any other way than fiction. They are fictional budgets, online, as it could not be otherwise, in tune with the fiction that the separatist process that they have been preaching for a long time. Fictional are the revenues that present us, and fictional are the expenses that they propose to us. But the curious thing is that the government already knows. He knows that neither the collection will be the one they say nor the expenses either. But the Government of the Generalitat doesn't care. That the deficit is increased instead of 0.7 a 1.3? It's okay. It is financed with extraordinary credit and forward. That debt is increasing? It's not a big deal either. It's been like this for many years and we've been financing it with more FLA. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the government is allowed to have unsettled budgets. For example, it is not serious for the Government to tell us that inheritance tax collection is going to grow around 20_per_cent, nor is it serious for us to be told that by taxing accommodation in tourist establishments it is going to be collected, approximately, too, between 15 and 20_per_cent. Honestly, I don't think the government believes it either. We also find it overly optimistic to estimate income from advances of taxes from the IRPF, VAT or excise duties. And why does it seem excessive to us? Because it turns out they are higher in 2017 than they were in 2016, when, precisely, the growth, and therefore the GDP, is going to be lower, we are going to move from 3.4 to 2.7. It is difficult in that context to foresee an increase in such liquidations and in such collection. But if we leave the income chapter and go to the expenditure chapter, we find no more rigour. There's a trap in them, too. See, for example, in Health, an expenditure of 8,876_million_de_euro is budgeted for 2017, when the final budget for the year 2016, and according to the Generalitat itself, turns out to be 9,143_million. Is 2017 going to spend less on health than 2016? No, and the government knows it, but it cheats. And the trap is just in the health counselor's office? No, no, According to the Government of the Generalitat itself, the final spending budget of all departments, after credit extensions, transfers, etc., is 23,384_EUR million for 2016, and it turns out that 22,610_EUR million is budgeted for 2017. Are departments going to spend less in 2017 than in 2016? The answer I think is obvious. We all know that departments are going to spend more, not less. And the result of doing the numbers wrong, of not drawing up a budget rigorously, is that the Catalans will have more deficit and increase the debt by more than 2,500_million, reaching, again according to the government's own data, the record figure of 77,500_million. And that figure, what does it mean? Well, it's a debt of 10,300 euros per Catalan. And we're still on the podium for the most indebted Spaniards. Let's see, all that, what do you cover up? Very simple: mismanagement. It shows that at the head of Catalonia we have an inefficient and ineffective government. And this inefficiency and inefficiency means that a greater fiscal effort, made by working and middle classes in Catalonia, is not rewarded with better health or education or better social services. If we compare Catalonia with other autonomous communities with similar funding to homogeneous competences, such as the Valencian Community or the Balearic Islands, and we do this, for example, in education, Catalonia is located below the Valencian Community and Balearic Islands, and if we compare in health, Catalonia is located below the Balearic Islands and above the Valencian Community. This fact, therefore, shows that the resources allocated to different policies depend, of course, on funding, but also depend, and much, on the political priorities of governments. And it's not worth, it's no longer worth, the victimism of blaming Madrid, which stifles or robs us, depending on the day and the mood. The Government of the Generalitat is trying to hide something that, on the other hand, is evident: that the correspondence between greater fiscal effort and better services to citizens is the fundamental responsibility of the Government, a government that, as it said before, proves day by day that it is inefficient and ineffective. So mismanagement, so inefficiency, you try to cover and disguise, of course, and camouflage yourself with the epic of secessionism. And that is why the Government and the parliamentary group that supports it can only find alliances and agreements between the separatists. And it is that, of course, we cannot separate the numbers from the intentions, we cannot separate the budgets from the political will that inspires them, that is, the will to divide the Catalans, to separate us from the rest of the Spanish and to isolate us from the European Union. Naturally, in this context, the Government of the Generalitat, which wants to get us out of Spain and Europe, can only have one partner: the CUP. This separatist strategy represents a slab, a clear obstacle to reaching consensus in Parliament, in Catalan society, and it is putting Catalonia, as we all know, in the hands of the CUP, with a strategy that we know is anti-system, of disobedience and continuous confrontation. Citizens, of course, are not going to support budgets that spend money on separating us from Europe and the rest of the Spanish and on dividing Catalans. And that is why, and for other issues that I will explain, we maintain, and will vote in favour, the amendment to the whole of these budgets that we have tabled. In Citizens we do not want to devote a single euro to a secessionist process that would have a strong negative effect on private activity, which would slow down credit, which would slow down investment, which would contain consumption, bring us financial problems, reduce job creation and increase unemployment and make many opportunities disappear for the future. In short, it would bring back and harm to Catalans and Catalan society. Naturally, knowing all this, you will understand that it is impossible for us to support these budgets, which will mean wasting, squandering, money and resources in building an impossible Catalan republic. And against that we prefer to invest, that money, in improving schools, hospitals and fighting poverty and inequalities. Naturally, knowing all this, we are not going to support spending 6_million on the repetition of 9-N. In no way will we support the waste of 18_million in external action to make propaganda of secessionism and 2,8_million for the Diplomat, which fortunately only causes it to reap failure after failure, because no one receives them. Well, no one – no one – neither. Some, especially from the far right and anti-Europeans, have received them. And, of course, in Citizens we aim to reduce contributions to organizations such as the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, Catalan couples and the House of Perpinyà. And we do not share in any way that we dedicate 93_million to the oversized tax agency, which will collect, and this is important, the same taxes, own and surrendered, that are already collected today, with a budget of 35_million. This represents a clear waste of €60_million, which has meant triple the 2015 budget and five times the 2012 budget. And you know for what? For in the end – in the end – and they will see it, so that the secessionists can entertain themselves by playing the independent republic. But, yes, with everyone's money – with everyone's money. Leave the game and devote themselves to improving the management of the taxes, the own and the given, and to combating tax fraud more effectively by collaborating with the state agency instead of spending resources, efforts and energies in trying to replace and replace the one. Coordinate with the state agency and reduce fraud by billions, which, in addition to being unfair, prevents that money from improving the lives of millions of people. Look, to equate the fraud of Catalonia and the rest of Spain to that of, for example, Germany would mean an increase in the collection of 78,000_millions for the whole of Spain and an increase of 13,800_millions for Catalonia. Is not this goal far more achievable, desirable and beneficial to all than that of secession? It is obvious, and only those absolutely disconnected from reality can say otherwise. Speaking of collection, Citizens are committed to establishing a tax system that collects more without having to raise the rates, without having to raise taxes more, especially the IRPF and VAT, and above all not raise them to the middle classes and the workers. That is why we emphasize the expansion of the bases and not the rise of the types. And this expansion of the tax bases we want it to be possible to do, we want it to be done, precisely through four fundamental aspects: by eliminating the deductions and regressive tax subsidies, by bringing out the submerged economy, by reducing tax fraud and, fourthly and most importantly, by increasing employment. And this fourth point is very important, because precisely the main fiscal problem in Spain and Catalonia is unemployment. If in Spain and Catalonia we had an unemployment rate of around 10_per_cent, both Catalonia and Spain would be permanently in a structural surplus. Structural.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Well, it is inevitable that from Citizens we highlight in this debate of budgets that, while almost all of the 1,645_millions of revenue increase that we are going to have come from the advances and liquidations derived from the financing system, the Government of the Generalitat does not want to take on the active role of improving the financing model and its President refuses to attend the Conference of Presidents, which in January would start the process of reform of autonomous financing. It is incredible and incomprehensible that the Government and its President have left office. It is surprising that instead of seeking support and complicity with other communities to achieve a more equitable and better system for Catalonia and for the communities as a whole, it is wasting time and effort in preparing a new and failed 9-N. In Citizens we want to change the financing system. We want to do this because we think that there is room for improvement so that the Spanish..., but not only the Catalans, also the Catalans, but also the Andalusians or the Galicians, contribute according to their fiscal capacity and receive according to their needs, and of course so that these resources are applied where they are needed: education, health, social policies, justice, in boosting our economy and in creating jobs. And it is a shame not to have the support of the Government of the Generalitat and the parties of Esquerra and PDECAT in the Congress of Deputies. It is a pity because, moreover, the attempt to break up with Spain has placed them in political ostracism. Here, let me make a few clarifications regarding the fact that tax advances such as the IRPF or VAT are always, year after year, calculated downwards. Look, it is imperative to say that we are, even in this 2017 financial year, but for many years now, returning 124_million_of_euro each year for the excess settlement that took place in the years 2008 and 2009. So, strictly speaking, do not say that always: when there is a deficit, it is the State that anticipates, the State that anticipates resources, and we, logically, then we are returning them, a return, let us be clear, also under quite, quite positive conditions. Look, it's been a long time since the Government of Catalonia preferred victimism and led the protests to work for troubleshooting, troubleshooting. Secessionism has long preached that the interests of Catalans and the rest of the Spanish are contrary, and I have to say clearly that they lie. Look where you look, it's good for Catalonia and it's good for Catalans to stay together with the rest of Spanish, it's good for Catalonia and Catalans to stay in the European Union. But the aim of the CUP and its governing partner is the separation of Spain and the exit of the European Union. That's right, they go back to the fiction and deception that after that separation Catalonia would continue within the European Union. Well, the maze of the process is a monumental deception, a modus vivendi for many people with the budget of all; pure illusionism. Fortunately, more and more people are realizing that behind there is trick, there is deception. Incapacity – disability – is disguised as rhetoric; insecurity, with appearance of certainty; the road map is changed because there is no road map, but occurrences. The boat to Ithaca has not moved from the port of Barcelona, but there are many people who are interested in this to continue and continue because they have made the process their business and we have to keep what because it gives good money. The Government was continually linking the budget to independence and that required some consideration. They want, they say, budgets to establish the Catalan republic, but I say that what they would achieve would be to install us in the realm of arbitrariness and populism, and based precisely on a gross falsification of reality. For some freedom is despotism, and not precisely illustrated. "They say, say, they say they are very democrats, but the secessionists are afraid of democracy, Spanish and European democracy, which is great for them. Democracy requires deliberating, convincing, building alliances with others to make a political project of values, ideas and interests a majority. But the secessionists, who know they are incapable of achieving it in Spain and in Europe..., and therefore, instead of opening up, they withdraw, they want to diminish democracy, to diminish its scope of decision. The secessionists want to diminish the political community with the illusion of deciding more, and the result would be to be able to decide less. And, look, in front of them there are many citizens in Catalonia that we do not want to lose the capacity to decide, that we want to continue to decide on the affairs of Catalonia and also on the affairs of the rest of Spain and the European Union. I will say this in another way, but also very clearly: secessionism, in the name of democracy, under democratic rhetoric, what it practices is its mutilation; democracy is participation, elections, the primacy of law, deliberation, representation, not only putting the ballot boxes and doing the illegal thing. Of course, the citizens' political project is in the antipodes of the secessionist project. A political project like that of Citizens, which wants to maintain and expand the political community, maintain or extend the perimeter of democracy, has a democratic and ethical value far superior to the secessionist project. The separatist project, which aims to reduce the perimeter of democracy and solidarity and to leave out many who are now citizens, is not ours. They intend to leave out, the separatists, the fellow citizens and tell them that their present and their future bring them without care, that they care little, that they find them there. In front of them, as I said, is the Citizens project. We are concerned about the future of our Spanish and European citizens, and that is why we want to continue to decide in Spain and Europe; we want to continue to decide so that Andalusians, Galicians, Valencians have more employment, good education, good health, good social services. But in Citizens we have not tabled an amendment to the whole, nor are we against these budgets only because of the separatist orientation that sustains them; we also do so because they are bad budgets and, unlike the government tells us, they do not prepare Catalonia for the future. If we look at budgets from the point of view of equal opportunities, equity and the reduction of inequalities, we are faced with budgets that will not give hope back to the vast majority of the 553,000 Catalan unemployed, and especially to the 90,000 young people under the age of twenty-five or to the 79,000 unemployed over the age of fifty-five, according to the latest published EPA. They are also budgets that will not return the illusion and hope to an immense majority of the million 700,000 people at risk of social exclusion, nor to the 139,000 children who in Catalonia suffer severe material deprivation and who, according to the Idescat, have increased by 20,000 in the last year. Citizens' priorities are different. That is why we want a reordering of expenditure. We will make, in the amendments, a reordering of expenditure that makes possible..., that shows our priorities and makes possible aspects such as the following. We are going to increase or, rather, we are going to establish a guarantee income of citizenship by creating a fund of 67_million to which the 208 of the minimum income of insertion will be added, and precisely in order to be able to fulfill what the Government has failed to fulfil, and that is to establish this, and that it committed itself parliamentaryly and has not done so. But also – that there is scope, there is scope to do without increasing expenditure – increase the dependency benefit by €6_million. We're going to propose it. We will also increase the allocation for resources from special employment centres to promote the employability of persons with disabilities and will do so by EUR 2.5 million. In order to promote equal opportunities, we also want to provide the budget precisely with items for free textbooks and for education from zero to three years, compared to a government that does not allocate a single euro to these needs. We want to increase, without further spending, the low level of funding for the removal of barracks and teacher training. This is from a social point of view. If we make a budget analysis from the public administrations and public services side, we are obliged to say something that is not by force less real: this government is insecure of public servants. This government, it is regrettable that, at this point, in order to finish paying the 2012 extra payment, officials, public servants, have to go until 2018. And it is regrettable that even the 2013 and 2014 collection schedules are pending. Equally regrettable is that the temporary staff has increased by 14_per_cent. On the other hand – on the other hand – the Government of the Generalitat does not spare to spend more, on what? In senior positions, with an increase of 11_per_cent, and in managers – in senior positions – with an increase of 13_per_cent. It is curious, one more year, by the way – one more year – that there is no willingness to introduce important savings measures and rationalisation of public administrations, companies and entities to make an administration and a more efficient public sector that guarantees its quality and continuity. In Citizens we want to establish an administration and a public sector that guarantee the delivery of the best services, eliminating bureaucracy, eliminating duplicity, eliminating chiringuitos, making the administration more agile and flexible and therefore also more efficient. Only a more efficient and muscular sector will remove reasons from those who can claim to dismantle it. The government should – if it is concerned about the public sector, if it really has an interest in doing the strong thing, it should carry out a genuine comprehensive audit of the administration's activity. Not only at the economic, organic and functional level; carrying out mergers; eliminating inoperative public entities. Measures should be put in place such as, for example, that the boards of directors do not have more than five members; those advisory and observatories councils that we know are useless should be closed, and the district councils and useless public bodies should be assumed and abolished. From the point of view of the economy and employment, budgets are suspended. We are told that we are facing higher growth than the rest of Spain and the European Union, and this reality, which is true, covers another reality, which is that we are facing fragile growth and muddy feet. The macroeconomic improvements we have seen, which we are seeing, are mainly due to internal devaluation; they are mainly due to very low interest rates, to a risk premium, therefore very low, to the depreciation of the euro, to particularly low fuel prices; but, frankly, none of these measures are due to the action of the Government, to the strategy of the Government to improve the economy of Catalonia. However – and he said so too, it is true, to some extent, the vice president – signs of exhaustion of the indicators are beginning to be observed and already in 2017 the domestic demand will fall, exports will decrease, GDP will be reduced to 2.7, the trade balance is already negative and will remain negative for about 13,000_million, and that despite the good behavior of the exports. Foreign direct investment will be significantly lower in 2016 than in 2015 and lower in 2017. In short, our economy is overly dependent on the international economic situation and the Government has to foster structural changes that the Catalan economy needs. And those structural changes, as they are a greater..., as it needs... In order for Catalonia to have robust and sustainable growth, we must be able to produce more new goods and services with more added value; we must improve and introduce changes in the factors involved in the production, organisation, management of companies; we must define and establish programmes – which are not done – to improve the competitiveness of the Catalan economy. Without these structural reforms the recovery will always be fragile and the increase and consumption of domestic demand will eventually favour imports above exports, and that will mean a further increase in the negative balance of our balance of payments. We therefore have major challenges ahead. We have great challenges, but it is also true that this budget should be committed to these challenges decisively by improving human capital, the quality of institutions, support for industry, agriculture, tourism and entrepreneurs. And he does? Well, look at you guys, half way. Budgets, it turns out that in these budgets, support for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship is decreasing by EUR 1.2 million_, 2.5. It turns out that the official credit decreases 57_million, 6_percent less. It turns out that while the Government of the Generalitat is constantly asking for more investments from Renfe and Adif, the Generalitat's investment in railway infrastructure has decreased by 389_millions, by 32_percent. In agriculture, for example, the increase, which seemed to be significant, is the result of incorporating development aid from the European Union for the first time in the budget. In short, the Citizens' Group has tabled an amendment to all these budgets because, first of all...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.5.0	Mr. Spiny, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.6.0	... we do not want to allocate a single euro to the political project of rupture and separation from the rest of Spain; secondly, it is not the budgets that Catalonia and Catalans need to promote equal opportunities, combat poverty and inequalities; thirdly, it does not address the inescapable and necessary rationalization and savings in the administrations, companies and public entities to make an administration and a public sector more efficient, eliminating bureaucracy, eliminating administrative duplication and chiringuitos. Third...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.7.0	Mr. Spiny, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.8.0	... does not constitute an incentive to growth... – I finish, Your Honor, I finish, I am in the conclusions –, does not constitute an incentive to the growth of the economy and employment, which favors the prosperity and well-being of Catalans. And for all these reasons Citizens are against these budgets and have tabled the amendment in its entirety. Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much, Counsellor; thank you very much, Vice-President; thank you very much, Members of Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.9.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Ms.Alícia Romero has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.10.0	Good afternoon, President. President, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, those who also accompany us from the rostrum, the economic team of the Councillors, well, we find ourselves here today to debate the assumptions that Vice-President Junqueras has presented to us today, some assumptions for 2017 that we hope that, this time, you have presented them with the objective of approving them. And I say that because just a few months ago we were here discussing the 2016 assumptions, and they weren't approved; that's to say, they were unborn assumptions. And it was that way because the night before, precisely, the UPC reported that there would be a negative vote on its part and, therefore, the government did not have the guarantee that these would be approved. Today we are in a similar situation; not accurate, but similar, because the CUP has announced that it will give the visa to the initials of the proceedings of the assumptions, but we do not have the guarantee of definitive approval. Now it seems that the UPC has told us that this will be decided by the 28th generation. Therefore, until the 28th generation, suspended, disabled, and we play again with the problems of the people, with the problems that affect the companies and with the problems that have many entities. So, again, a certain irresponsibility. We already gave him at that time, Mr. Junqueras, that the responsibility to bring in some assumptions and approve them is his and his government's, the government that conforms Together for the Yes. And her irresponsibility is to bring them here today without knowing if she can approve them. And we'll meet again in that situation just a few months ago. And that happens because you're trapped by the CUP and you're trapped by the process; by a process that, honestly, you don't know where to take us, because you've changed the full route so many times that you don't know where to take us. And, on the other hand, they feel trapped by the full road, but they don't feel trapped by those who are patenting so much, for those who demand guaranteed citizenship, for those who are on the waiting list for a surgical operation, for those who don't have places of residence, for those who have left without the public square of school Bressol, for those who don't have a fishing scholarship, for those who suffer from poor energy... For those of you, they don't feel trapped; they feel trapped by the CUP and the process, which, as I say, for the time being, is in a lane that we don't know if you've got much out. If you really wanted to worry about these seconds and not the first, then surely what you would have done is different, and you would have come here with the right facts, that is, you have guaranteed approval of these assumptions, that today we do not have it. And I would have opened it, I've told it many times, I've told it many times since my parliamentary group, a way of dialogue with the groups to look for some complicity, to try to find solutions to some problems the country has. You didn't do it. Just 'if you haven't done it – and you won't – you've come here and, five minutes before entering the chamber, we've been told that you won't respond individually to parliamentary groups, you'll do it together. Look, I had hopes of talking to you, even though it was five minutes ago, but that didn't even let us do it: five minutes before you changed this fabric. So he knows us hard; he doesn't even let us talk to you here. [[Greetings.]] It will respond together to all groups, one-quarter hour or twenty minutes, and who is going on, years of work. And that's his will and his will. And that, frankly, I'm telling you, Vice President, it's hard for you to know. We haven't had a dialogue before, and now I don't want to have a dialogue here in the chamber. So, listen to me, it's very clear that the only solution you want to solve is that of the process; that's why they speak only and exclusively to the UPC, they said that it's their priority partner, the only partner you want to talk to, and we're sincerely hoping that the UPC present..., you've submitted their papers to the premise, that we can see them and know exactly what it is that you ask, to see if we can add to their petitions, because at the end of the day, the presupposition means this: that some of them present papers to try to negotiate with the government. We'll wait and look and analyze who these CUP items are, to see if we're able to modify this assumption as little as we like, Mr. Junqueras. We have submitted 1,206 papers to this premise. In many, it's true; it's possible to prioritize, it's true, but like we have another model, in any case, we can talk about it at another time. What is clear is that we present these issues because we have another model of country and another model of society, which obviously we do not share with what you present in this assumption. But, in order to finish this brief intervention, look, Vice President, you bring us assumptions that again arrive late, and arrive late because they will no longer approve this 2016, they will approve 2017, we will have to make a presuppositional extension. And it's not proven when it comes to why negotiations with the CUP have certainly been very long – altogether, to achieve a few things, according to our parents, and I say it with my small mouth – and, therefore, let's go back there; since 2011 we've been unable to approve some assumptions at the time. That's to say that maybe it would be up to us that the year he goes, if he follows the legislature and still goes with a certain normality, we were able to approve it when he does, huh? It would be a petition from us. Again, there are assumptions that do not guarantee approval; again, they do not know whether their priority partners will raise them, and they do not engage in dialogue with parliamentary groups. And, therefore, hopefully we will be uncertain about this process and this negotiation that you have with the UPC. Well, from my group we would like to explain to you clearly the motives of our task to the totality and of ours' not to these assumptions. You know, assumptions are the most important law to approve a government, that's where priorities are marked, that's where facts appear, not words, realities, not desires, and, therefore, that's where you clearly see the model of country and society that a government wants to pull forward. And actually, when we analyze the assumptions and go to the detail and the small letter of these, so, what we do and what we see is that we don't share his model and that just what we want to fight against the social model that you here prove to us that you want to apply. Miri, four things about the social model that we see behind these assumptions. The first, for a band, a model of two-speed society: the one that can be blown away and the one that can't will not do it. There is no guarantee of equal opportunities in these assumptions. It's out there of salvation if anyone can. This is one of the characteristics of this premise. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, I'll give you some examples of that later. Two, a model of society where the public sector grows, grows, minva [[Funnel veils]] , contrivedly – yes –, carrying all the support, all the effort on family charges, on families; that's what you do, and then I'll focus on it. And above all in the family protection network, silence women, hindering their personal and professional trajectory and returning to an ancient social model, where the family is responsible for what does not the State or does not, in this case, the public sector. A very shared model, by the way, with the People's Party. They don't just share that, they share other things, we don't talk anymore. Three, a country model and a model of society on, depending on where you are, you have more opportunities than others. And I say this – and you know it, and I would also like to know what the government is proposing for this –... you are aware of the depopulation that the lands of the Hebrews and the Pyrenees are living, of the aging and the impoverishment that the rural areas of Catalonia have. What's your proposal? Because when you look at the reversal data you see that Lleida Province is the most punished of all the provinces of Catalonia, when it is precisely where there are more rural areas and where there is more depopulation. Yeah, so, as we see one in Catalonia, it's more likely than the others. This is territorial imbalance, and this is neither cohesive nor a model of country that we defend. [[Greetings.]] And another thing that happens very often also when we talk about different territories is that, if somewhere there is a strong gathering, there is a gathering with resources, there is a gathering with progressive vision, that city ends up having more servants, because it ends up suppling what the Generalita does not do. And therefore, I also say to which city you see, I say to which place you see, you will have more opportunities. That can't be. A state..., a government– plus, a government that pretends to be a state– what you should try is that there is a clear equality of opportunity, viscous to Barcelona, Santa Coloma or Riudarenes, it's the same, you should have the same opportunities. And that, at this point in time, Catalonia is no good. And four, a model of society that makes no effort to those who have more. We're a model of society that we don't share. We are demanding the efforts of the always, the middle class, which almost no longer exists, the workers who every day are poorer, the retirees, the ups and downs, the public workers..., to these efforts demand. Now, at 3,16_percent of the population that earns more than €60,000, these twenty-seven men and the richest women in Catalonia, who among them have a fortune of €32,000_million, these do not ask for any effort. We are asking for efforts from the others: the public workers, the ups and downs, the retirees..., these we are asking for efforts. And we're a model that we can't share in any way. In fact, this is a model that you share – I come back – with the Popular Party, a conservative model, a model in which, obviously, those who have the most do not pay, those who pay follow the popular classes. It's not a model we've been defending. The truth is, they're surprised, huh? , the poor ability of the Republican Left – I don't say the CUP anymore, take a step back – to change this model of society that Jordi Pujol implanted many years ago and that persists in time. You haven't been able to change him since he's in the government, unfortunately. We'd like it to be something else. And, saying these four elements that are key for us at the time of saying: "You defend a model of society that we do not share and that is what marks these assumptions, I would like to say that when you speak of the more social assumptions, and you have said here more than 1,000_million euros dedicated to social parties – that it is certain that there is an increase, and that is to say – it is not much less enough. Now, when you say, "The most social of history, we must say again that it is not true. He said it in 2014; it wasn't true. 2016 said so; it wasn't true. And now let's say it's not true. And that's all we have to look at. Look, I'm not going to 2010, because I already know that you don't like the tripartite much, he likes the tripartite you have now. [[relays]] But it's the same, I'm going to 2011. Government Mas - Sánchez-Camacho, in social parties: 18,067_million euros – Mas - Sánchez-Camacho. 2017: its government, the government of the process, 17.831_million euros; absolute numbers– absolute numbers. At this point, you will recognize that we have more problems with the situation, the poor and the inequalities than in 2011, right? So, less resources. I mean, honestly, if you were talking to me about so much now... no, listen, absolute numbers, problems that Catalonia has that much harder than 2011, and fewer resources that you dedicate... And I'll tell you what. Say 17.831 to be kind, because here you could pick up what you put here as a social reversal linked to transport and mobility, which you put there by the railways to Sabadell and Terrassa. Well, "social..., if that's social, it's all social, huh? It's to say that... up a moment that you include in this graph you pose this. They've got this, they've got line 9 coming up to the Free Zone... it's social. Home, it's all social. But, listen to me, the other years, when social inversion was analyzed, neither mobility nor transport appeared. So, I didn't want to take it anymore, but it's the same, it's still feeling smaller, it's still feeling smaller than 2011, with Mas – Sánchez-Camacho. That's it, counselor. And now, to get into some more concrete details that I think they emphasize and exemplify what we're saying about the model of society, we're talking about some important things, which are the pillars of the welfare state, the pillar of equal opportunities, and the one that generates a more just and fairer state. All right. Education. Listen, we're still having underfunded public education. A little effort has been made, it is true, it has to be recognized; but we are at levels of reversal..., at 2.17 of GDP, and we have not said it: there are reports, and you know it, of the Bofill Foundation. We are at the levels of Laos and Peru, countries much less developed than we are, and we are, more than ever, very far from settling the 6_per_cent as an objective to dedicate to educational reversal. If we don't bet on education, it's honestly hard to see how we can invest better to secure our future, because, if we don't have a well-formed country, it seems difficult or it will be hard to see that we have a strong, solid economy and a country in position and with a view to the future. You... - to put some dice, huh? – between 2000 and 2015, public centres have suffered more than private centres, retail centres have suffered more from public centres than private centres, public schools, concerted schools. The public, in concrete, a 19,44_per_cent, has suffered, from retail pressupost; the concerted, a 4,58. For the one who makes the classrooms, a talk to the public of 6.75; the concertada, a 2.24. So, we're talking about the audience actually got a lot more out of you when you did the clippings. This is also a model, it's a model that obviously we can share in part. One hundred and fifteen lines of P3, have eliminated this course 2016-2017: sixty-one to the public, fifty-four to the concertada. He always suffers more from the concert, and he does it now, than you govern, Republican Left. They already do the governments of More, but now it's kept – it's kept. And, therefore, this is something that we want to say to you in a clear way. Then, despite this small increase in the presupposition, we are at about 10_per_cent in 2010, but we still do not realize the replacements from the first day and we do not increase the resources to be able to offer the six hour; the continuous formation of the teacher is not assured; neither are the resources for the innovative school; nor for the pedagogical renewal of our teachership... That is, there are important shortcomings for a school that has to be placed at the level that surrounds it to be the 21st century. And that means installations and equipment, but it means, above all, teacher, that he has been very punished and that, moreover, he must be trained in order to be able to innovate. And lastly, in education, we maintain, we follow: zero_euros for the Bressol school. And this is also a model of society. That is to say, a school in Bressol, zero_euros of the Generality, more charge to the families, more charge to the assemblies, that I return to say that they are the ones who always end up supplanting what the Generality of Catalonia does not do. And, listen'm, it's very important, zero-three. Every time there are more pedagogics than they say of the importance. And we, from the Generality, therefore, continue to set zero_euros. Two speedings: a public sector that is shrinking, with an assembly that makes a lot of effort, and families carry the work. The one who can't take the kid to school? That's why I stayed home. And, therefore, the woman with fewer opportunities. And a model of society that we still don't share. I don't know if the Esquerra share, I suppose so, because you've presented the assumption; what I don't know is if it will share the UPC, I hope not – I hope not – and they do the possibles because this changed with the processing of the assumption. Hey. There's no... hey! Counselor, welcome. The presumption of salvation increases timidly. It is true, it increases; but timidly, it still has to be said. And we said so because we still don't have the covers, nor the covers, to reverse all the details that have been made. So, I don't know where the most social assumption of the story the vice president says is. Listen, the per capita expenditure for the year 2010 was 1,297 euros/inhabitant; today it is 1,182. You're a minor, aren't you? You're a minor. Now, let's go, I've changed the parameters, huh? , because we see that, using one or the other, we are always under – we are always under – if we compare ourselves to other years. The target should be 1,500, huh? - 1,500, huh? – We're in 1,182, I mean we still have a bit of a run. So, have they improved things? Well, yes, but not enough: 12_million euros per 180 CAP, the 55_millions of the game have disappeared to improve the waiting lists. Some dice– miri, I'm talking about my region– : for a knee prosthesis, at the Hospital de Mataró, wait 655 days; at Calella, 805. God don't do it! He may have retaliated them, but the compromise was 180 days of maximum hope in the knee surgery. So, God don't do it! From 180 to 805 and from 180 to 655... I'm from letters, huh? But it seems to me that they're enough to cover. So we should devote a little more resources. They committed themselves to putting resources, which are not, in the presupposition. Well, then, you'll tell me. You'll tell me where this social premise is. Professionals, you know, who are at very low levels of precariousness, who are working over their possibilities. And we've seen, for example, how you don't increase the number of workers to those in the Siscat, to those in the public consortia... And we made a statement because they can also collect, because in the end we are hurting the workers of the public consortia of our sanitarium, which are many. Therefore, in this sense, with Greeting we are not satisfied either. Let's keep..., let's not go over the details, and it seems to us that this is not what would be near, considering this growth that the vice president that we had for what he does at the ticket office said. And another fact that concerns us: the year 2016 creates the family expense that we make for the payment of mutuals or to have a mutual _second, because the first time we have it, it's the public, it's the one we pay..., it grows a 3_per_cent. 25_percent of the population has each other, but the money we spend as families on this private toilet, this private toilet, is 1,500_million euros. It's barbaric. It's a brutal xifra: 1,500_million euros. Isn't that a two-speed company? Two speeds, because whoever can pay for it will be able to say: "Look, listen, the emergencies are collapsing, I go to each other. "Miri, I need quick diagnostic tests; look, I'm going through each other. And here it can't be paid, neither fast emergencies nor diagnostic tests before the hour. So this is the model of society that you're defending; that already defended Boi Ruiz, huh? And it looks like this, so, go on, go on. And, in addition, they share another time with the People's Party, which, after all, wanted to come here that... – and say yes, Mr. Rodriguez – they wanted to come here to say that this deduction from the IRPF's tax. Send it, huh? "Shut the fuck up" [[relays]] Diguessim, you. Listen to me, social attention, to put another data. So let's re-establish this model of society in which the public sector becomes weaker, carry the care of infants, the care of our dependents – disabilities and great people to the families. Because, listen to me, there is no redoubling the lists of waiting for residences – the councillor told us – neither dependence nor economic benefits to access a square, those that would really need it. Between the State and the Generality, who here are in agreement, they have removed and loaded themselves and ended up with the country's dependency system: a 22_per_cent less benefits and an 11_per_cent less for non-professional caregivers, in relation to the last assumption, that of 2005. So, listen'm, I..., say'my social element of your assumption is. Disappear the game for the disabled. It is true that they seem to pose it in another generic game, but we can no longer follow it, nor will we know if it goes up or down there... Show little sensitivity, really, eliminate a game for disabilities, which had 6_million euros, and now we don't know what it is; very little sensitivity. Target less resources to the minimum income of insertion that the one that has dedicated this 2016... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, that's some advice, I see they're a little flattered. There is no concrete match for guaranteed citizenship income – there is no match. Look, we made a move on this, too. Of these 1,200, one is this. We have incorporated a new game for guaranteed citizenship income, and we have equipped it with a small, but expandable xifra. We have seized these 5,8_million euros that you want to dedicate to the reference that we would like to agree but that we believe that setting a date is already difficult to deal with, to dedicate it to the guaranteed income of citizenship. And from here on out, we'll expand it. And at least, listen to me, we can start talking and see if we attack one of the most important demands of Catalan society, which this is a society that we also ask for. So, well, it seems to me that it's clear that it's a social model that we can't share with you, and so many camra groups don't share and we can fight it all. In work they increase resources a little, especially those coming from the State. There's a..., follow a clear bet for the outsourcing of SOC servers, to reduce the proper staff. And we see, we believe, that there is no clear bet to improve resources for the ups and downs and to make it easier for those who are ups and downs to recycle, train and find work again, and, therefore, to start again their path to personal autonomy. It's not the premise, we don't see it. It's the one who saves himself again. Who can, who can be paid, who can pay for an intermediation, who can pay for a formation, and who can start his path. We do not see at any time that the public sector here is strong enough to give solutions to these so-called people who need support to start another time their path to personal autonomy, which is done, among other things, through work. If we enter the economic recovery or economic development parties, disappointment here is also important enough. National Pact for Industry, or Industry: EUR 52_million. They already know that 2010 was 165. It has increased a little, but when you go into detail, you see: that there is one part that increases to Action, very small, and another that goes to Eurecat, but it is that Eurecat, that is the fusion of advanced technology centers, that..., for whom I don't know, and that is dedicated to transferring technology from the center to companies, this agreement on the increase of resources – and, look, here is Mr. Roger Torrent, he will remember – we agreed with the previous government but: 50_million euros in three years for Eurecat. And, therefore, this is a compromise that's already coming back. They merged with more resources to try to move forward. Therefore, most of the increments here come from Eurecat – most of them – who are happy, because technology transfer is very important. Listen to me, you say... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They said no, all the counselors, but it's the powerpoint that the vice president passed us. [[Rialles.]] It's just that that powerpoint was pretty good, 'cause it was pretty much summed up. There..., you looked: "Education. There's such an increase here, yes. Industry, miri: National Pact for Industry, plus 2; Action, plus 1; Eurecat, plus 20. It's what you said clearly! It's just that I didn't make it up, it's that powerpoint the vice president introduced us to. Anyway, check him; if he's not okay, check him, and tell him what he did isn't right. University. They said – they said – that... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, yes, Mr. Coscubiela has already said, and I will come back later. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] University. They committed themselves to reducing university taxes by 30_per_cent, because we approved it in this Parliament. There is no reduction in university fees. Nor is there an increase in funding for public universities. Seventeen million euros, some compromises for a court ruling on something we have to pay to public workers. That is to say, of the 100_million that the rectors demanded so that they carry a few years with a 30_per_cent reduction in funding, nothing. I mean, let's go with the university community. Staff, PDI and PAS aging is very important. If we don't make a plan, if we don't take this into account, we can suffer. And we don't see in the presupposition..., although we share, it's true, with the secretary of universities when he goes and when we meet with him these elements, then, in the presupposition, there's no priority. He's already telling us we're helping him. We're already trying to do it, there's already papers, at least socialists, under the assumption that they say that. But then the government doesn't end up responding to these requests. So, for what kind of future strategy, what economic model, we don't see ambition in this premise. I know it's hard, Counselor Baiget, because we don't see it. I'm sure you'd want to, but it's not there; in the end, the government didn't prioritize this. And, yes, the third element that I was commenting on, for what it does to the model of society... a model of society that you defend that is that there... that pays who else... more, who else has, that doesn't appear in the assumption either. You say, "Yes, we've raised taxes, we've created tax credits... Well, yes, 120_million euros, huh? In total. Our ability..., or so, our ability for the coming year, plus, is 120_million euros, whenever the State doesn't end up suspensing us with the sugary beaks. But it's... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, man, I'm not! No, but we could also question the one about the sugary beakers. Not for nothing, but why in the end will he end up paying the extra cost of Coca-Cola, Pepsi or Schweppes? Pepsi? No, he'll end up paying the extra cost of drunks he contributes, the city. And in the end, so, listen'm, the usual, the middle class, the working class, will pay a little more. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, man, but all the same, we will pay – all the same – as always, all the same. Yeah, 'cause that's gonna end up feeling that way. And then you create a new tax and you are unable to talk to the sector, that a sector like the agri-food sector and the food sector to the food industry in Catalonia is very important, and you were unable to call them and say, "Look, we're thinking of a tax on sweet drinks, etc. No, they found him. Home! So, I think the dial would be fine, too. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, don't tell me no, because I was meeting them and they perfectly explained it to me: they met you when they found the creation of this tax in the middle. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Junqueras, yes. That's the way things are. If you don't talk to the sector, you don't agree with the sector, we'll see later how it affects this tax, and if not, we'll end up paying for it among everyone, huh? , each one of your butxaca; but, of course, to some it has more repercussions than to others, because..., the one that earns 20,000_euros a year or the one that earns 150,000 you will understand that it is not the same impact of the bid of this tax. Therefore, their great bet and their great willingness to reform the system taxily are small taxes, such as that of sweet drinks, which we can agree with, but it seems to me that we do not believe that it is the solution to increase the tickets or to redistribute the wealth or to demand a greater effort from those who have the most. What have we been doing for a long time – we, other cambra groups, the Fair Taxation Platform, among many other sectors of civil society? So, listen'm, those who earn more than 60,000_euros, who are 3.16_percent of the population, not the majority, 3.16 pay a little more; those who earn more than 150,000_euros, who are 0.36_percent of the population, pay a little more. Go on, it doesn't seem to me that it's so unfair, it's that we seem to have made a lot of effort, a lot of effort, which they're making less, maybe now it's up to those who make more, and so that's what we've asked with our..., or we're asking them with our proposal to change fiscal policy: change to the inheritance tax, the IRPF's autonomous tram, the assets..., that's it. But you don't want this. Well, you, I don't know, in any case, Convergence didn't want to and it's flushed Republican Left, it's let go, and we don't know if it's going to end up flushing the Cup, so good no! Because... but, well, it's the same, because if he doesn't flush the UPC, he'll flush the People's Party, which they share with this tax policy model, and so... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, don't say that, Mr. Vila, because you know what's going on? That in this room – lucky that there is the diary of sessions... –, in this room we have voted many times a tax reform more just and progressive than I would redistribute the wealth better. And do you know who you voted with? Together for the Yes he voted with the PP always – always. Therefore, listen to me, you share tax policy with the PP [[applause]] - No, no, no, Won't they please you, Mr Santi Vila? They won't like it. But to us, yes. And I'm in Barcelona, today, in Catalonia, Parliament of Catalonia. I, therefore, am talking about what's going on here today. And in the session diary it's written. Miri, don't ask for your best efforts, and so it costs us a lot to be able to share with you this model of society, which they certainly share with other groups, but not with us. A model of society, as I said, that it's not worth what they have the most, that it's not worth the forts, and we can't be at their side. Finally, they present assumptions, again, that they arrive late, that they do not know if they approve, that they generate uncertainty and insecurity because we will see if they approve and if there will be an extension; that I also tell them: it seems that neither is drama, that there is a presuppositional extension. The other day Mr Pere Aragonès, secretary of the Economy, came to compare with the Economic Commission – and I must say that we very much appreciate the intervention he made – and, listen to us, he explained that there had been a change of various credits worth more than 1,000_million euros to make social, educational and all kinds of policies. That's to say, if there's a presuppositional prorogation, it doesn't seem so dramatic. That is to say, I hope that when you come back here you will not be responsible for approving assumptions so that there is no extension, because Mr. Aragones has acknowledged to us that for the sake of assumption you can make modifications of more than 1,000_million euros. So, listen, the responsibility already knows that it is yours, only yours, and, therefore, I hope you come here to tell us that you have the certainty that these assumptions will be approved. We do not like the model of society that defends, of the save who can, without guaranteeing the equality of opportunities; a model of society that weakens the public sector every day more, where the private, more to more, has to supply what you do not do, and basically this is the families; that, more than that, they force the joints to attend to all those services that disengage you and that do not exert efforts on those who have more. And look if this is so, and I wouldn't want to forget, that to whom, to one of the most demanding of us, to public workers. We agreed on the 20th generation, now it will make almost a year, a motion that asked for a follow-up of agreements with the public workers so that it would recover the pay of 2012, that of 2013, that of 2014, some social elements, the Social Action Fund, the IT – temporary incapacitates – the complements of productivity... Listen, they have been unable, at least, to agree on some things. No, we only know that they pay a share of the pay this 2012, a share of 2013..., ai! , one for 2017 and the other for 2018. But the 2013 and 2014 pay doesn't know anything about it. They already came to tell us – you said they called us, didn't you? , at a meeting – and they told us that the negotiation was stalled, that it was not moving forward, that there was no willingness to negotiate. And, therefore, you will already explain to me if we have to "kill" even a little more public workers. While..., and I remember it, and I don't want to make a fuss, it is that in the end, "hostile, there is so little sensitivity that they make us angry, yes. The government, apart from..., the government and the high offices, which have sub-reasonables, which I don't say they don't have to, because it seems to us that they have to be well paid, but, listen'm, a 1_per_cent of the subs, and they pose the second pay, that they don't charge. And as this happens... – except the president, I have to say – but as this happens, you said to us: "It is the chocolate of crying, well, as this happens, the public workers have not yet charged the full pay for 2012, nor know when they will charge for 2013 or 2014. They could have a little sensitivity. So, look, my fellow Members of this Parliament: don't cover the second pay, don't take the 1_per_cent I am, man, and don't show, and give an example to the society that you can also make an effort, which is what you don't do. Little sensitive, this government. [[Greetings.]] Yes, without going into the demagoguery because I don't like it and it would lead to a lengthy debate, but it seems to me that when one looks at the law of assumptions, he says, "man, it seems to me that a higher office could be relieved of this second pay, and perhaps these lines would go to another place. Yes, this resource could go to another place: to the groceries, or guaranteed income, or to so many needy people in this country. So, listen'm, counselor, vice president...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.11.0	Mrs. Romero...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.12.0	Today is now... - Yes, I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.13.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.14.0	Today... – I am –, today it is now, and therefore, they have some assumptions to solve the problems that we have now, and looking at the long time to solve the problems of a future, but above all, and it seems that you are oblivious of it. Like the ara's tomorrow, so they're oblivious to today. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot... Mr Turull, why ask me the word? [[Jordi Turull and Black intervenes without using the microphone.]] A dungeon? Before or after I speak Mr. Coscubala? [[Pause.]] Now? [[Pause.]] Someone...? Do you all agree with this background? [[Pause.]] No, no, no, no, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Back there they say no, huh? [[Widow's remorse.]] Please... do you agree with this rectum or not? Can the different wallets be displayed? Mr. Carrizosa, yes. Mr. Turull... Mrs. Rovira, yes? [[Pause.]] Mr. Coscubala? [[Joan Coscubila Conesa said, "Whom did I say? Rialles.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Granados, too. All right, all right. Five minutes, huh? - Five minutes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I understand, Mr. Salellas, but there was a majority. [[Rialles and remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.16.0	Next, in representation of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela. [[Pause.]] Mr. Coscubala, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.17.0	Well, thank you, Madam President. Mr President, Vice-President, I have to start this intervention by making a sincere recognizance of an important aspect: I think that square assumptions, you make them, with these economic and political conditions, it is not easy people; but it is much harder if what you want to square us see here to make a big difference, which is what has made us today, once more, Mr Junqueras. The government presents us with assumptions that come together as two drops of water as of 2016. In fact, his intervention I think has been, in turn, very similar to that of a few months ago. They are assumptions, above all, that we would define as continuists; you continued with regard to the 2016 presupposition, but you also continued with regard to the presuppositions made for the governments of President Mas. They are continuing assumptions with the Government's repeated refusal to engage in dialogue with much of this Parliament. They are continuous assumptions with submission – literally, submission – to fiscal adjustment policies. That, yes, is a submissive, timely embolized, camouflaged, seemingly politically disobedient gesture. And I don't know anyone who feels submissive economically can be politically disobeyed. And I don't think you guys are either. They are a continuous assumption – and this is the hardest – with the resignation to make the Catalans pay more than they have to serve the Catalans they need the most, as the Fair Fiscality Platform demands. They are continuous assumptions with policies that lead us to a country that is unsustainable in social and environmental terms because I maintained a dual society and does nothing to resolve it, but consolidates it. They are continuing assumptions, and that, in democratic terms, is very difficult, for the repeated failure of Parliament's mandates. With regard to the major resolutions of this legislature – plenary of social emergence, debate on general policy – these assumptions are reflected, with serious and flagrant incompliments, such as the refusal to implement the guaranteed income of citizenship in 2017; with the words of Mr Junqueras, "because there is no agreement in this sense. For some things there have been democratic mandates; for others, these democratic mandates serve no purpose. We are talking about a difficult incompliment, that of guaranteed income of citizens; certainly, that has provoked the complaint of social entities, a wave of fame, this week's head, of the promoters of the ILP, which today are at the gates of this Parliament. We are faced with assumptions that do not respond to social needs, that they are subject to a fiscal adjustment policy and that they give up paying more than they have. And the only coherent answer for us, for Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, is to present this goal to the totality. If the government does the same with these assumptions that with 2016's, they can't pretend to get a different answer. No, atmenys, from Catalunya. That's Pot. Leave a lot of explaining why it's hard, for us, this lack of dialog. The government has again refused to dialogue with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. And I think I know why: because you do it for discussion outside the protective walls of the city of the process in which you feel very comfortable. With Citizens and the PP, you feel wonderful, it's a gem to do these debates in these terms; now, when we get into political debates, social debates, economic debates, it's complicated. I think there has been a strategy, clearly, designed for Vice-President Junqueras – to which I must congratulate, because it has been quite a success – to weaken the negotiating position of the CUP. And the truth is, well, he's got it from this point of view, because he's coming out of here today with almost identical assumptions that were rejected in 2016. And doubtful is his merit, politically, and I want to recognize him. These are deeply submissive assumptions, even though he is in a habit of disobedience. Actually, honestly, I don't know where the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group sees that these assumptions can be anti-capitalist, anti-system, in the hands of the CUP. I can't find it at all; the better the opposite, the submissive. Certainly, I don't see the government in the hands of the CUP. I don't want to say that you're going the other way at the moment. But what I do see is one thing, that in all economic issues, in all important social issues – you say today a media outlet that has done a good job on this issue – you, the government and Juntes for the Yes, with whom they vote is with the People's Party and Citizens; they are with these. The real, the real economic and social alliance, the majority of this Parliament, is Together for the Yes, Popular Party and Citizens. We have seen it, for example, every time we have discussed educational concerts, every time we have discussed fiscal policy: every time we have discussed what affects economic interests, you vote with the right of your whole life and with others who do not like them saying they are right, but do these policies. They're a submissive assumption, even though you're after the embolism. In fact, I think it's the other way around: precisely because you are making policies that are subject and disciplined to economic power and to the Spanish State, you need, to cover this submission, all kinds of statements, resolutions, motions, slow and grandiose gestures; as more submission, more gesticulation. But what's left is submissiveness, under these assumptions. Don't tell us, huh? This affirmation of the passage from the very presuppositional memory that the Government has presented, is evidenced by the compliment of the laws of European, Spanish and Catalan stability, which they say to derogate but that they are applying, with a total and absolute phariseeism. Even you are proud of the reduction of public deficit in a few years from 4.48_per_cent to 1.93_per_cent in 2015. They claim... you, this government, huh? , claims the political parties for the Government of Convergence and Union, with the primary support of the PP and after the Republican Left, have reduced the deficit by 5,169_millions. Words of presuppositional memory, not mine. And I also agree to reduce the public deficit, of course. But how has it been reduced to those you claim now? – certainly, you too. They have demanded..., not from more tax receipts, but through the retailing of social rights, to leave pinned on the poor very many people and to sell the assets of the Generalitat – presuppost of 2014. Certainly, Mr. Junqueras, the complaint of the deficit, of the ground deficit of 0.6_per_cent, I share it, and I am willing to go with you to some act, I do not know if of disobedience, but of firmness in this sense. Now, it's not credible of you in this sense, because you're complaining that the impairment floor is 0.6 and you're presenting us with assumptions with the impairment floor of 0.5! You are the most advanced student of the troika stabilization policies in this country. You would be given the most disciplined prize in these policies. And once again – it has passed in the execution of the presupposition of 2016 – you prefer to scrupulously complete with Montoro and Rajoy than with people in a situation of social exclusion. That's what's after the memory you wrote; I don't know who wrote it, but you literally say it. Clearly, and in order to store this you need to do the debate on this, this fire of incense, on the 5_million euros game of the referendum. Look, we won't go in there – we won't go in there –; you know perfectly well that the reference is can do perfectly without this game, you know perfectly well. If they've dedicated 5 million to the Fire in the presupposition of this year without you being made and 8 to the High School, how can they not do it with 5 in the presupposition? But why all this soroll? Well, to cover up others, it's subjection to presuppositionary adjustment policies. We have said it many times and we repeat it today solemnly: referring, yes, clearly, but not at the expense of renouncing social policies and tax reform; no, at least for us. It is false that these assumptions are the most social of history, as everyone has said, but it is that, when the parameters are reached, this comparison cannot stand. It's certain one thing... on paper, huh? Then, to life, we will see, because you know that between what is approved in the initial premise and the execution of any aspect of reality is pure coincidence, but it is true that in the initial assumption the social parties increase by 7.3_per_cent in nominal terms– certainly, counselor, under the 8_per_cent nominal growth of the economy, is that even from this point of view the social expenditure grows less than the economic conjunction of that perspective. But it's that the government is..., and you know it, that's why it's taken care of with the scare and said, "I'm not comparing now with 2010, that the situation is different. Yes, yes, very different, but you know and forget that this year's social spending is 11.4_per_cent per 2010: 2,298_millions less. But it is no longer to compare with the Catalan government's stage and progress, it is that, if it is compared in many parameters with 2012, the situation is also dramatic, from this point of view. And that's what we're proposing to reverse and you haven't found any mechanisms to do it, because you've decided to devote it to other priorities. These assumptions are – they are not – not social, because they cannot be social while there are insufficient resources. And these resources can only pay more than they have. The phrase that you say many times but never applies. That's the rhetoric. Almenys never applies it when it comes to iron politics. We are making important changes in this sense. Certainly, Mr. Junqueras, today you have made us a list of all the taxes that remain... with these new realities, which is in this year's tax bill. Sorry to tell you, huh? : has occupied more space or occupies more space the title of taxes than taxes. It's like these restaurants I love and I can't, that one goes and sees the letter and it's sophisticated and when he looks at the dish he doesn't find it. So that's exactly what happens to you with these types of taxes. And then he set us up again. It is not true that the measures that you claim from the government but suppose..., and the..., yes, from the governments But, suppose 1,200_million more entrances than... No, because you include almost 600_million of the property tax than the one you deserve, forgive, is not yours. The demise was of the Zapatero government, which suspended him, and the merit is of the Rajoy government, unfortunately, which he returned. The only one you've done has been keeping this question, with a few minor modifications. Do not point at these merits from this point of view. These are the presuppositions of resignation, and that's why you're giving up tax reforms again. In the 2016 debate, at least you gave the battle, supposedly, Mr Junqueras. They were the sorrows, the ones of Convergence; the good ones, the ones of Esquerra, I battle, I don't know what. But it's neither this time nor this; this time we have a government that sets us up with assumptions that once again give up the self-government capacity that Catalonia has to make fiscal reforms: to make more money than they have. I insist that, from this point of view, there is a lot of margin, and it is said to everyone – academia, Platform for a Fair Taxation, the people of the platform "Poor Zero... –, there is room for reforming the transferred taxes – the IRPF's catalan tram, estates and donations and assets –, a margin that can reach a few hundred million euros when fully developed. It is obvious that part of the responsibility is clearly... that the lack of resources is clearly reflected in the harmful and perverse financial system and in the very political status of Catalonia. We don't just don't deny it, but you know that if you decide to donate the battle with the new funding model and don't give up intervening, you'll have us clear first of all to donate this battle. But, he said, the government can't just stay in the simple denunciation of this situation. The government can't ask the people who today suffer each day who are resigned to expect a change of political status from Catalonia. People can't do what we're doing here, that if they don't make it tomorrow, today I don't believe you tomorrow, today we don't make it tomorrow, today I don't know what, no, no; people need to eat every day, from this point of view... And that's the responsibility of these assumptions that I think you're eluding from this point of view and eluding from the perspective of getting more resources. I'm hard to say, huh? , because fortunately in the català and the castle there is a difference between being and being. I don't tell them that you're insensitive, but I do tell them that these assumptions are socially insensitive. They are, and a lot. But I do not say it, they have said it repeatedly, they will also say it again to the teaching people who are out here; they have been told by unions, social organizations, venerals, entities of the third sector, which are demanding, among other things, the inn on the basis of guaranteed citizenship income. In the present situation it is absolutely incomprehensible that the assumptions do not reverse structural measures to address the situation of poverty and social exclusion. Look, we need to think about one thing: that the important thing is to create occupation. But as things stand, by personal circumstances, by structural circumstances of the same society and of the system, there will be certain people who will be left out of this possibility. We cannot continue to treat them in care terms. We need these people to have the right to have guaranteed tickets. You cannot continue to pursue a social policy of self-help capitalism that pleases the right, you cannot, if it is that they are different, which you must prove, and at the moment, sadly, you are not proving it. They refuse to pay more than they have. And, in addition, some of you have come to qualify these proposals of ours as "confiscationary proposals". They did not get to what a Member of Convergence and Union to the Congress of Deputies said, who qualified the imposition of estates as "the death tax," he said in the castle. No, he didn't get to be that demagogic from this point of view. But, look, at the same time that you are refusing to place this tax that you charge with confiscation, you have no problem with maintaining a system of co-payment of benefits in a situation of dependency that practically expropriates pensions, especially of persons with fewer admissions, minimum pensions. That's a confiscator. It's fixed well, huh? You leave these people behind and they do that, practically, many times they have to sell or mortgage their habitat to access a private square, or when they arrive at the public square..., a co-payment system that leaves them not even the butxaca money, that they have come to say; simply so as not to touch the interests of the 4_per_cent of these contributors, that they are the ones who could make this effort from this point of view. That's why the implementation of guaranteed citizenship income is so important; that's why. Especially because you, with the government's retaliation, in a disastrous summer, have managed that at these times you are lowering the number of people, of expedients that are open in relation to 2015. They've managed to get even the minimum input income of fewer people from this perspective. And we have already said that you cannot qualify social assumptions when you have a minimum income for insertion with a presupposition of 208_million, which grows nominally in relation to the previous, but which is already less than you know is spent this year on the presupposition you have already approved of the changes you have made. This cannot be said to be a social presupposition. They can't say it without... they're making us look like a big beast. Miri, in habitation. After..., I was forbidden to say that..., as we work collectively, my group said to me: "Don't say that. I was going to say that after the fanfare of the housing summit..., but I won't say so; I will say: "After the inn on the scene of the summit, therefore, we note that, despite this... Well, for example, the payment parties of the loguers are located on the level two years ago, when it turns out that at these times the great problem of the denominations, 90_percent of the denominations are produced precisely by default of loguers. It's just that neither this ability to warp parties in the same premise has you to deal with how people's social needs change. In these and other aspects you have clearly abandoned people who suffer from housing and energy emergence. I'm being expelled from this joint responsibility. You're doing the same thing with the joints as they're complaining about the state doing with you. They leave them alone before the problem, leave them abandoned and say: "There you will fix it. One expression of the lack of social sensitivity of these assumptions is that you continue to freeze Catalonia's performance indicator. Frozen since 2010. Clearly, you know that this means that this indicator makes... keeping it frozen leaves out of access certain social benefits to very large people, and those who rebate it, rebate it with a lower amount than they would have if the assumption is not frozen. Ah, but that's what you do at the same time that the state level is announcing an increase in the minimum wage of 8_per_cent. Home, there's some big stuff going on in this presupposition, huh? All this is there, all this is not in the list of good intentions that Mr Junqueras has read to us, but it is in the reality of this assumption. This is a presupposition, moreover, untenable, because it is not just a problem that does not devote sufficient resources to everyone; we are the first ones who accept that it is not possible to answer all the complaints that we make, to say, no, all the points that we have certainly cannot answer, neither for this Government nor for others. We're aware of that. But that's not the problem. The problem is that the orientation of policies is unsustainable; for example, the abandonment of environmental policies. The parties of the environmental programme, and of the water cycle, are falling apart. They'll already listen to Hortênsia Grau. He's not worried he'll give them the bat. And you know that when he does, he does it with strength. A total abandonment of the ACA: it does not appear nor symbolically no match for the reversal of the privatization of Aigues Ter Llobregat. Look, if I know that, Mr. Rull, it's very hard to accept that the department that a door has "none." But, just, you know, if what I'm saying is true that even Mr. Junqueras today in his intervention gave him a bad conscience, I don't know if he visited the environmentalist entities that visited us, but he came to recognize, he took my guilt in the presentation of these assumptions. But it is also unsustainable in relation to the economic model. And, here, the Department of Enterprise..., to see, fix yourself well: what change of energy model can be expected if no significant investment is devoted to the energy saving plan, and support for renewables is ridiculous. No, with what you have in this premise, it is not possible to change an energetic model, nor to push it. And then the subject of the industrial sector. As you can see, you have signed the "More Industry" pact, and the premise is growing, from this point of view, but the combination of Enterprise's premise is not oriented towards placing industry as a key factor in the economy of this country, which gives maintenance capacity, which has no seasonality, which creates quality occupation. No, as not enough effort is being made in the field of innovation. And that's very important for something that you say in the premise, but then don't apply, that's the support for peppers and micro-enterprises. The big bet of the business sector, the big bet of the business consultancy is for the tourism sector, and I agree that it is an important sector especially if it is diversified and loses seasonality, what I have to say is that Catalonia cannot be caught in the tourist specialisation. We can't, it's a risk, and therefore, what the assumptions are to do is go not in favor of the current, but, precisely, trying to prevent this tourist candy from being fed. And that happens between other things, too, to empower the other sectors, and between them the industrial sector. I told you, didn't I? But I hope that in your reply, Mr Junqueras, you will explain to us how you can come here and vote in favour of setting up a public bank and then reducing the Official Credit Programme of the Catalan Institute of Finance by EUR 67 million. I don't know, well... well, I know how I can explain it, right? , here's the vote I'm going to..., then if I've seen you, I don't remember, that's what happens almost always with everything. But go... In the same way that it is unsustainable what makes reference to investments. Is it false that the investments are a 3,8_per_cent, are located in 1,549_million euros when the year 2010 was 5,940? Is it possible that a country can be sustainable by reducing the investment capacity of the public sector to the level that you are reducing, which is an absolutely feverish thing? Another of the unsustainable aspects is the maltreatment of the local world. So far no one has spoken, but I want to make it very clear. You, the parties of these assumptions, those that depend on you, keep them practically frozen. That's right, they're presenting it so the assumption goes up a 3,4_per_cent. A little bit of a bar, you got it, huh? , because the main thing that wins is the EIP game, which is the game that is above the State and that the Generalitat is only dedicated to distributing it. No, from the point of view of the responsibility of the local world, of the Generality, this assumption is a presumption that ill-treats the local world. Certainly, no novelty, because even in this you have inherited the pujolist genetics, which never liked the theme of the gatherings and their setting. It has already been said at the public office, but I want to insist on one issue: public employees are tired of you recognizing the effort they have made during all this time at the time of the great retailing. People don't live by moral recognition, people live by the fact that they're paying off what they're saying, and you're expanding it a lot more than an autonomous community, a lot more. But not only that, but basic social rights continue to be unrecognized. The other day we had the opportunity to listen, they reminded us, from this point of view: the recovery of the one hundred-per-cent of the temporary disability benefit that they carried; the social background; the reduction of the teaching hours of the 50-year-old majors, which we are interested in for the quality of education and quality in these centres; the issue of the replacement of the lower ones from the first day of work places in direct attention to citizenship, the discrimination that they still maintain in relation to the staff of the ICS, at which... the rest of the staff of the Generality has recovered some rights that they continue without holding them. It's not the sanitation counselor, but someone should defend them. And getting into sanitary issues. Look, in matters of sanitation, it's absurd to discuss the assumptions, because everyone knows that in sanitation the assumption that is approved and the one that is carried out afterwards is that they don't assemble in absolute terms. You know that you have approved a presupposition that is under the presupposition defined in 2016, you know it from envelopes. And, therefore, this growth that you attribute to sanitation is fictitious, it is not so, because you know that the year 2016 at least 900_million euros has had to be changed. Why? Because we have a brutal problem, always, continue, it is not only your government's, that it is this expense of pharmacy and concerts that drains the rest of the... from this, and when you have to square this global assumption you will have to make a decision: either you assault the public deficit or you have more ability to recapitulate – two aspects that you seem to have given up – or it turns out that all the promises you have made in social policies will not be able to develop them because I eat the whole game of pharmacy and concerts, if I eat it more automatically almost, almost, from the point of view..., without anyone controlling it. Let's put 'em down, all the way... – and you tell Councilman Comín, who is not here –, I want to recognize one important thing in health care, which is the effort that has been made and the change, which you have highlighted, in the matter of mental health. I think it's an important change that could be consolidated. In terms of education, we could explain a lot of things. I just want to insist on one thing – many have already been said, I make my own –: the constant mistreatment in the phase from zero to three years. It is precisely the stage that makes it clear that access in conditions of equality is materialistic. If it doesn't work at this level, inequality reproduces, because not all families have the same opportunity to socialize with their children. And you continue to abuse this stage of..., some in the so-called bressol school, of the educational stage of zero-three years school. But, look, anything I can tell you would go beyond what they say, what they're telling you, at these times, the teaching unions. If there is any field in which this premise is clearly a continuous one, which applies the convergent policies of all life, it is the field of education. By the way, culture... culture, what can I tell you? Mirin, you, here, all day long talking about culture as an important element of the country's identity. Of course I do! But how is that known? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Is this culture's priority? You once use it as a symbolic element, after oblivion. No, culture is, more than a symbolic element, and more than a major industrial sector, a right of citizenship, quite clearly. And to get it, they're calling more resources and other priorities. It can't be that assumptions sometimes devote more resources to large infrastructures than to associationism and popular culture. They cannot continue to neglect the world of culture in the area of gatherings. And, above all, what is clear is that with this assumption advances the dismantling of the Conca. In short, it is a clear-cut mechanism of greater political control. Mr. Counselor, I... I've had the feeling... they haven't been able to find the gender perspective of this assumption, honestly. Jo thought it was us who were clumsy. But as soon as you, at your presentation, have not referred to it in any way, I have come to the conclusion that it is not that we have not known how to find it, but that you have renounced that these assumptions have a gender perspective. They have been oblivious to completing the Law of Equality with regard to incorporating the mandatory genere memory. But, above all, a very important issue: male violence. It cannot be; we have a report from the Català de los Dones Institute describing the precariousness and lack of attention and repair of male violence. Let me tell you something, really, huh? I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm fine. This Parliament cannot continue to make every time that there is a murderer an institutional statement against male violence and then, at the time of truth, to put resources on the premises to address this, this effort does not appear. This phariseeism is insufferable, as insufferable as the masculist violence that lives, at this moment, in this country. There is an alternate presupposition. And so I've been explaining each of the reviews to her, she's accompanied by the opportune points. But it's an alternate assumption that has two axes. First of all, the recognition and implementation of the guaranteed income to the citizenry, which is an essential structural reform to guarantee admissions to everyone who does not have them. Look, listen, you know it's not true what the Department of Economics has done about this unusual cost. You know that at these times the programme that we are planning has a cost of approximately 1,400_million euros. We're willing to argue with you if you're a little bit more, a little less. And you know that the spending to make 2017 could be around 500_million. Home, you can do it, huh? If it's not, it's because there's no policy to do it, and there are other priorities to set it up. And, in this sense, let's just say that you can't say you don't have the resources to make the guaranteed income of citizenship, while you're clearly thinking that you're giving up paying more than you have, from that perspective. These assumptions maintain the lifelong fiscal policy of Democratic Convergence, which has now made its Republican Left. It's over there with a good cop, a bad cop; they're all fucking hosties, from this point of view. I am not surprised that the coordinator, Mrs Marta Pascal, is so happy, so satisfied with the fiscal policy of these assumptions. From this point of view, I believe that what needs to be clearly laid down is whether you are once and for all willing to address this truth, in fact, which pays more than you have. And more needs to be done in terms of transparency and rationalisation of expenditure. I'm talking about the councilwoman and friend Neus Munté. See, if the government doesn't have anything better than spending the resources that in the hourly reform auto-bomb campaign, which is something that still doesn't exist – yes, let's say it – I give you a thousand opportunities to make better use of people's social emergence resources. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Listen, what does the people who live in a situation of misery and who don't have tickets think, and when told, for the generality's television, "the life that awaits them?" So, look, the life that awaits you while you're still abandoning the social emergence of people is poor and exclusion. This is also a priority issue. One of the days... the most happy day in the world will be the day you know, exactly, what it is spent on, this government, its propaganda and communication expenses. And say propaganda in the literalest sense of the term. I'm done, I'm done with an addendum. See, I think it's likely enough that this is the totality we've presented is still rejected. I believe that the Government... – I believe it is –, that the Government has guaranteed the approval of the assumptions, as today it has guaranteed its processing. Because the government has succeeded, once more, in using the alibi of the process. This time, at last, with more intensity; this time it's not alibied, this time it's chanting. I'm not saying, they're words of the same Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, which qualified the government's attitude towards them as a chant. Don't give it critically, huh? Honestly. We all know the destructive ability of the opponent who has the media division in Ithaca, when someone is pinning the thing to be the enemy of the process, and no one wants to carry with this death. It is not the first time that you use aspirations – legitimately – the sovereign aspirations of large sections of the citizenry as an alibi to impose social assumptions. Actually, Mr. Vice President, you're a specialist in these maneuvers. I remind you that the year 2014 approved the assumptions of the Government of the Generality with an argument as strong as the last autonomic assumptions. And he approved the details and approved the bad sale of the Generality's assumptions. Then, the year 2015, they repeated the play, they had gone well. This time, the details were because the assumptions of 2015 were those of the 9-N consultation, first, and those of the supposed plebiscite elections, then. It looks like you've worked well and, of course, they're repeating the play. But there was an accident in 2016 and it was that with the alibi there was not enough and the assumptions were not approved. And you have decided to push the pressure and the alibi has turned into chanting; into chanting because these assumptions are still approved. Someone would have to ask if..., what's going to happen..., someone would have to ask what's going to happen if, by 2017, the only one left, of these assumptions, are social details, freezing and this model of society. Someone should have asked and asked before it was too late. We are aware of why – why – you choose to do this: you don't know who else you need because, as you put it, the most people you need are the least people to vote for. And you protect those who vote the most, who are, among others, 4_percent of the population. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.18.0	Mr. Coscubala, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.19.0	I end with one sentence, only: "These are not the assumptions that the country needs to face social emergence; these are the assumptions that the government needs for its political survival. And this is an important reason for presenting the issue to the totality of our parliamentary group. Unfortunately, I don't think it'll be possible...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.20.0	Mr. Coscubala, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.21.0	...unfortunately, I don't think it will be possible. Still, I believe, we have an opportunity because, in 2017, no one is to blame for having... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.22.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, on behalf of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has the word "Mr. Alejandro Fernández".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.23.0	Thank you very much, President. President, Councillors, Members and Members, he used to say that the first time that the expression was used « marine expertise was used to refer to the proverbial, almost supernatural, ability of Admiral Nelson to be able to drive a ship, in the worst of storms, the best of ways. The mariner's expertise is supported, in principle, in the intuition, but not only in the intuition. With the intuition you end up passing exactly as with the inspiration: you have to catch working. In the case of political expertise, it is exactly the same as marine expertise: there is a part of intuition, but there must also be another capacity for objective analysis of the situation that you live at every moment. On September 27, 2015, Mr.Artur But was unable to accept that the process, in the terms that he himself had designed, had been settled. He was unable to understand that the plebiscite, in the terms that he himself had designed it, meant that all this was the Catalans and everything else, without any nuance, we were the botiflers, it didn't work out well. Mr.Artur Mas, to whom some analysts attribute a certain degree of frankness, it is obvious that he was not called by the way neither of intuition nor of marine expertise. And instead of correctly reading what had happened, he dedicated himself to continuing on a path with a view of the process as a split warrant, which had consequences: to the price he wanted to continue forward. The price we all know: the most remarkable political harakiri of the recent history of European politics. The Harakiri of a coalition, which was the most solid party in Catalonia, almost from Spain and part of Europe, Convergence and Union, and the personal Harakiri of the same. Many honorable president of the Generality of Catalonia, if you have – if you have – marine expertise, intuition, would have been added long ago, worth the redundancy, in a new time, a time of dialog. The CEO's data are absolutely inconclusive: a 46_per_cent, roughly, of Catalans is considered to be independent, but only a third of this 46... – which is a xifra, obviously, people less likely–, but only a third consider that independence is possible, that the process has a future. A few days ago Gesop raised the percentage to 18_percent of Catalans and a few days before Gesop left it in 14. That is to say, only between 14_per_cent and 18_per_cent of Catalans consider that the process will lead to independence. That is to say, the process, in the words that you yourselves designed it, is settled, "finality. We're in a new time, a time of dialogue, okay to overcome the political blockade. But you, Mr. President, have decided to continue for the same way as Mr. Arthur Mas, for the same way that Mr. Ibarretxe previously took, in a process that we can already qualify as mass destruction. A massive destruction process that is giving the last few shots of which and which is already showing, as a terrible success of institutional contempt, exaltation of provocation by provocation, even with creams of flags and pictures of people. We're in a new time, a time of dialogue. And, on the other hand, you have preferred to continue, or, better said, to abide by the principle of authority and dignity of the security forces and bodies, as well as of Catalonia, and of its officials, as happened with the case of Mr. Jordi Jané, stigmatized, threatened and humiliated. Do you really, Mr. President, have them endure these humiliations more? Really? We're in a new time, a time of dialogue. And, in turn, you have preferred to continue – and it is shown with these assumptions – only with the CUP as the ally; you have decided to immolate politically, as your predecessor. And he did it, in addition, throwing himself against the rocks, continuing with the marine half-hours, because no one forces him. And already the advance that this fall and this shock against the rocks will not be epic nor will it be exciting nor will it be patriotic: it will be grey, dark and sad; at last, a little semi-unanim, as happened to its predecessor. And while Mr. Junqueras is on his side making a notarial speech, he is not a woman practically anything, and with his little smile, he is waiting quietly for his fall, also waiting for his own event as the new leader of the new left-wing tripartite of Catalonia; now he is as the leader of a new pala de palar, in this case, of the Republican Left of Catalonia. Perhaps he is clear, even if he does not say so, that the process is absolutely finished. Really, Mr. President, and members of the Catalan Democratic Party, who don't know what's going on? Are they unable to offer the least resistance to harakiri that their own companies want to manage them safely? Are they really unable to do it and fit in? That we are in a new political time – a time of dialogue, of course –, there have long been clear symptoms. And even so, in the presuppositional debate, you have had offers of all kinds to compromise; offers that have refused, except one. There was an offer from the Government of Spain for a dialogue, which was lacking. But also in two control sessions prior to this plenary, our leader, Xavier García Albiol, raised the possibility of talking about important things, financing infrastructure. He has also rejected Mr. Iceta's offer of a dial; this yes, man of a supernatural chameleonic ability to adapt around; he now needs, as he is, a new political ball shot, and who does six_months– he is not, and he knows me hard– who gives jumps, "here I am, here I am! , arranged as necessary. He said that it is not – nor is it – to the offer of Mrs. Arrimadas, who, in the session of control – and I will quote it textually, it was not that it got stuck – he said textually: "Let's go together to Madrid to ask for better financing and infrastructure. A trip that we'd all be grateful for. In the end, he has rejected the offer of a dialog that Catalonia has proposed to him Yes, it is Pot. And, besides, it's funny, because it was the offer with which you served the cruelest and most explicant language, which doesn't get used to being your usual, because they proposed some things, with which we don't agree, but – oh! , crime of human injury – wanted to be agreed and legal. And that led to the constant mockery of his governing team. You preferred to speak only with the CUP, you discarded any other dialog option. And to agree with the CUP means to agree with its ideology, which is nothing other than political nihilism, the need to destroy everything, or that it is just a little bit, to build a new world, or a new man, in Maoist terminology. The problem is that nihilism is deeply contagious, it is destructive; it is not only carrying political careers, as I said before, or political parties, as I have also commented, but it wants to liquidate the best of Catalan society, which Vicens Vives defined as well done work. And here you also have a problem of political analysis, lack of marine expertise. They do not realize that the UPC, although it has said so many times and it is possible to appreciate sincerity, is not an essentially independent party. They will defend independence in the measure that it is an instrument to liquidate everything, to build or, better said, to destroy a new world. The pact with the CUP, in this first phase – it can be much worse in the next, from the reviews – has a price; a price that has numbers, a brutal price for Catalans. Then I'll explain every issue of the brutal price to the Catalans. But before I do, I'd like to stop for a second where they're the reasons for which you've decided to make a pact, with which political project you've decided to make a pact. Sometimes there is a tendency to refer to the good company of the CUP in a somewhat frivolous way, to the communication media: that if the comb of I don't know who, that if the shirks of I don't know how many more, that if they come and they don't know how many more things... No. It's good to look at what political project you've decided to agree to discard the rest. I read the CUP election program. Tell me masochist; it's my obligation. I'll do five brushstrokes. CUP programme, apart« For a new social and economic model, proposed: collection of private property. CUP Programme, "Energy model will sobirá, proposed: dismantling of energy infrastructures. Programme of the CUP, « Agro-ecological activity, proposed: food authority and waiver of the CAP. CUP Program, « Economic Sobirania: Commercial Tanking and Aranzels, like his friend Donald Trump, exactly the same. CUP programme, "Quality public services: liquidation of educational and health concerts. CUP programme, highlights: we will break down the European Union and get out of the euro; a truly remarkable proposal for what you say you want to build a new state of Europe. But just when it seems absolutely impossible to overcome deliri, above the star proposal. CUP program, apart« For an antipatriarchal model: we have right to a sabbatical year for everyone collecting. [[Rialles.]] Radicals do, fools don't. [[Greetings.]] Radicals do, fools don't. It is a proposal that appears curiously immediately after the one that speaks of the defence and legalization of the cannabis, without this implying on my part the insinuation of a cause-effect relationship in the order of all two proposals, I want to make it clear... [[relays]] It wasn't that people got in my way. But, it goes to say, in any case, that you are right in one thing, gentlemen of the CUP, good company of the CUP: effectively, you need a sabbatical year, or five, or give or, finally, come. Very honorable president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, must I agree a presumption with this troops – must I agree a presumption with this troops? The price of the political pact with the CUP... [[remorse of the voice]] , the price of the political pact with the CUP has direct consequences. It's a pact to serve an ideology and has direct consequences on the premise. Mirin, the good economic situation and the macroeconomic policies of Luis de Guindos, that without wanting, I suppose, Mr Junqueras has demanded admirably, have allowed us to recaptivate to Catalonia 3,400_million euros more. All right, and still have this huge amount of more money, how did you decide to cut it? He's decided to cut... I'll explain. Program 522, railway infrastructure: retail, 32_per_cent; program 543, industrial promotion: retail, 15_per_cent; program 222, road traffic and safety: retail, 10_per_cent; program 521, reel: retail, 2_per_cent; program 561, rural world infrastructure: retail, 87_per_cent; program 561, enterprise and business development: retail, 2_per_cent. After seeing the chanting, effectively: the government announced that five hundred places of movement would come out, the CUP did not like it, because it considered them massive, is left in 276, clearly insufficient for the face in the matter of citizen security that we have come forward. And let's hope what can happen in the papers, that it could be clearly worse. The chanting continues: one hundred and fifty firefighters had been announced, who passed to ninety-nine, clearly insufficient as well. In change, agents inspectors of the Catalan tax agency, had announced themselves three hundred and became 459. For these there is money of the increase. What's more of the assumption? What's the use of that money I gave before? Program 125, Catalan tax agency, increment of 150_per_cent; program 231, external relations, is directly doubled, a thinner mike. And in social policy I add to what has been said before: they have in some cases made a little game of mans trilero, which is to take another shot, like the year 2016, the traveler's transports game and add it. But then, if we look at the detail: program 316, attention to disability, 12_per_cent. In summary, this assumption: less professional training, less industrial promotion, less infrastructure, less road safety, less civil protection, less civil security, less enterprise; and, on the contrary, a constant imbalance of resources in absolutely impossible journeys: external relations, Catalan tax agency or reference, to which they dedicate these 5,8_million euros. In this sense, I would also like to hold a second in the question of the reference. Catalonia does not need any reference. Obviously, if it's illegal, it's already discarded and not to talk about it, but even so, because it can be said and it's perfectly democratic to say, Catalonia doesn't need any reference. What has now passed to Europe shows us that the reference is not a good system, that it is not a solution, but that it ends up feeling, very often, a problem. Is a reference a possible instrument of participatory democracy? Yeah. Is it essential or is it a condition not to be considered a Democrat? Absolutely. That's not just what we say. Reading interviews, books, Ignatieff, the Canadian, who says in text: "The references are binary, they have no nuances. Consult and depend on the state of anime in a day to decide an important thing of future tea – says Ignatieff – « little democratic quality. The great father of modern political science, Giovanni Sartori, speaks even of the democratic shipwreck that means references and reservations exclusively for small local consultations, in which people can be fully informed. But what has happened to Europe is clear. Referendum to France, which called Chirac for the Treaty of the European Union, Brexit summoned for Cameron, the constitutional referendum of Renzi, have they brought any solution? No, no, They've brought problems, more problems. In Colombia, a process of pau that was well designed, is now absolutely exhausted because of a poorly planted referendum. In Catalonia we don't need any reference, no deception, no reference, because they're not a solution, but they just feel a problem. I'm done, Madam President. This assumption, said a while ago, is less enterprise, less industry, less citizen security, less infrastructure. The pact with the CUP converts this presupposition into a presupposition that is deeply antiquated. And I will say this with all the letters: the pact with the CUP converts this premise into a deeply antiquated premise, in the measure that contradicts everything that has historically characterized Catalonia and that has generated the admiration of everyone. And who are these characteristics that have historically generated admiration on the part of everyone? I don't make them up, I don't tell them the People's Party: take Vicens Vives, which I said before, or Pierre Vilar. They want you to make a list? Private property; Catholic health and education concertation, superior to the Spanish midjana; family students, superior to the Spanish midjana; private industrial initiative, superior to the Spanish midjana; family trade, obviously, private, superior to the Spanish midjana. This is Catalonia; I didn't make it up myself, not the People's Party, it's the historical reality of Catalonia. And that, obviously, doesn't like the CUP, so they say they have to understand everything, because they don't like Catalonia as it is, they need to radically change it. We must have one thing, and you, Mr. Junqueras, who is a historian, will not agree, but you know it's true. [[Rialles.]] The great enemy of Catalonia, the great enemy of Catalonia historically is not Spain, the great enemy of Catalonia historically is the revolutionary anarchism and the confiscating collectivism. Always. And, in fact, being Spanish has once and for all helped us overcome this enemy. And I don't doubt that being Spanish will help us this time too to overcome this revolutionary anarchism. Before nihilism, institutional contempt and rupture, we offer concord, tolerance, coexistence and dialogue – and dialogue. And, if you don't want to talk, we'll talk directly to Catalan society, if you decide to give up being interlocutors. There you go. We go out humbly to defend the Catalans who rejoice in the morning, who do not need any wise years, because they do not have to work, to look at us, the politicians, asking for opportunities, not gifts, because they believe that their destiny is in their own hands, that the future of their families and of themselves depends only on their efforts, because they are the owners of their destiny. We go out to defend the Catalans who want to build and not to destroy. In short, we go out to defend the Catalans who want to connect everything to what has been broken. And as long as it can be connected, with this new stage of illustrative dialog that it works. This will always be our attitude, yesterday, today and as I said a while ago, for the future. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.24.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Then, to answer, has the words of Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.25.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone another time. President, advisors, advisers, Members and Members, as some of you, at least, have not spoken or practically have not spoken, I don't know if I should just focus on responding to the interventions on presuppositional issues or whether you have done your intervention because you might expect a more general reflection of character, as I understand some of you have done. If I may, I would ask you for a favor: as long as I understood that you were qualified as anarchists, revolutionaries, extremists, confiscators, anti-capitalists, advanced students of the troika, embodiment of neoliberalism, coming to the right, coming to the left, coming to... I lost myself. I have to confess that I've lost myself, I don't know... so, I have a proposition, anyway. You, if you want to, aculinate her, and if you don't want to glue her, don't aculinate her, huh? The proposal is: the four spokespersons who have spoken so far could meet, they speak among them, they make a summary of all these qualifications that they have dedicated to us in a short space of time, many of them openly contradictory; one time they have the sum and the rest of it, they divide it by four, until they are four spokespersons, or for the gyra that the more opportune appear, and they bring us a diagnostic. Because I... at least I'll personally appreciate it, because I'll know a little bit about the general perception that you have. The other possibility – the other possibility – is that we come to the conclusion that their interventions are not guided by presuppositional criteria, are not guided by economic criteria, have nothing to do with the assumptions, have nothing to do with the economy and, simply, are the result of speeches that you wrote and that in no case have you adapted to what we have explained here. And, therefore, that would explain why some of you, for twenty-nine minutes and thirty-seconds, have spoken about independence, secessionism, reference, etc., and perhaps – perhaps – have devoted the seconds of time exceeding to talking about some presuppositional issue. I will now try to talk about assumptions another time, because I am sure that we will have occasion to talk about other things on many other occasions and, therefore, would not want to deprive those who listen to us of the possibility of talking about assumptions. I will then try to make a final reservation on a non-presuppositional issue. The spokesman, the representative of the Citizens' Group, told us that "a bad management... I had just explained to him, precisely, that we have explained to less than half the payment deadline and that we have gone from sixty-seven days, on November 2015, to twenty-seven days, by thirty, and therefore a reduction of thirty-nine days, on September 2016– I understand that some virtue must have in the management capacity– ; that we have reduced the bills pending payment in almost 3,000_million euros in this exercise– so I understand that some virtue must have in it. You also put into doubt the increment forecasts for what you do to the taxes of heritage transmissions, the AJD, ISD, etc. This is a forecast that is based on the improvement of economic activity, it has no sense to predict exactly the same as the previous year, when we come from an increase of 3.4 and a forecast of growth of 2.7, and also the re-evaluation of assets, the increase of transactions also of real estate character, because this is what we see every day at the length of this exercise, and therefore seems perfectly justified to us. After you also made reference to the forecast in the increment of the recaptation for successions and donations respect of the liquidation of 2015; he said it was 20_per_cent. It's not 20 cents, it's 13_per_cent and, among other things, it explains why it includes part of the tickets coming out of 2017 as a consequence of the direct assumption of the tasks that until now the property registers do and that allow us to reduce the costs that this represents. It is also true that in the case of successions it is a tax that varies depending on the chance of each year, and therefore we do not share in absolute their diagnosis on these elements. It seems to us quite frankly justifiably, or people justifiably. Then he also criticized us for the beast's esteem, because he said it was clearly exaggerated. No, how is it to be exaggerated, the beast's estimation? We have made an estimate of the beast as a function of the average of the fish that these beasts have had on GDP in the last few years. In concrete terms it was a mean of 7.5, we make a forecast of 7.4; taking into account that we come from a stage of economic growth, it seems to us not only rigorous, but also has a point of caution. So we don't share what you're saying around this either. Then he told us that exports are reduced. No, exports are not doubled, GDP is not doubled. In any case, what GDP will do is grow a little slower, but it's not going to happen again, is it? So... well, I don't... I insist, we don't share absolutely basic aspects of his intervention. Then, respect the presupposition of salvation – and this is what other spokespersons have also referred to – to take into account that all presuppositions of all the health departments of all the autonomous communities of all sub-state administrations have a displaced expense that comes from previous exercises. This happens all the way, here too; for this reason the liquidation always ends up feeling higher than the presuppositional forecast. But this is something that is almost universally – I hope it is not exaggerated – known many and many years ago, because everything that goes on applies exactly to the same system. When you say that 2017 is less expensive than 2016, it does not take into account that the assumption is based not only on the non-finalist expense and will not finance, but also that the execution incorporates the finalist expense, financed with finalist tickets, and all the incorporations are fan to the length of the exercise. So you don't have any... Go on, it's just that you didn't feel what you said. So I don't want to qualify it any other way than what I just said. He has also told us that the Catalan economy is overly dependent on the external sector. No, no, That the Catalan economy is strongly linked to the external sector, which is strongly linked to a global world, is positive, not negative. What do we have to do? Do we have to go in the direction of contract? Therefore, that the Catalan economy is an open economy in the world, with a very export-relevant role, with a balance of the positive foreign sector, which contributes a 0.5_percent increase in GDP this year 2016 and a forecast that looks like 2017, are positive data. That exports grow especially in the sectors that have the most added value, that in high-tech ones, for example, they reach two digits, that exceeds 10_per_cent, all these are positive aspects, not negative aspects. Also, focusing exclusively on presuppostarial issues, Congresswoman Romero said that they rely on the place where you have less opportunities, and in concrete terms reference to the Lands of the Ebro and the High Pirine. These vegueries, these territorial areas, have more euros per inhabitant in reverse... Precisely, they are: the High Pirinius and Aran, 216,8; the Lands of the Hebrews, 134, 5, and Ponent, 112,1. Therefore, it is not in absolute correspondence with what you have said. About comparisons with the assumptions and spending availabilities of 2010 – or 2011, let's say it, huh? , each of you takes the highest game you've found, I don't know, in history, let's say, one is in 2010, one is in 2011, or 2008, in the field of infrastructure, etc. – then you tell us: "And you, respect that, spend less, or you have fewer resources than at the very moment of each of these parties. By definition, from a percentage point of view it is impossible that we are always in the maximum of all simultaneously. And from the point of view of absolute values, also remember, as we have done in the initial intervention, and it seems to me that it is essential to take this into account, to bear in mind, that the deficit of the year 2010 was 4.55 and now we would be in a deficit of 0.6, and this difference is a difference..., these tenths of difference..., if we compare it with the figures of the Catalan GDP of 2016 in the portaria to the 8,000_million euros of difference. Therefore, I understand, and I can share it with you, that there are many other questions to which it would be well to devote more resources. But from this point of view, for example, only from this point of view, we have a lot less resources available, if we don't do those levels of disability. But like those levels of disability we can't do them, so... if it's not that you keep them in some kind of place and never let us know, and so now we're making them available to us, not ours, but the joint venture of the Catalan society, which I understand and am convinced that all the citizens of Catalonia would be more grateful to them. In the same way... they invite us to plant in front of the dam. Okay. I've already told them that they appreciate the good predisposition in this sense at the time of planting in front of the dam. But one time we said that, how many more of a kind do we put in the pot? What do we do? From the assumptions of the sub-state administrations in which you somehow participate, or approve, in how much is the deficit relief skipped? How many? And, therefore, I also insist on another issue, apart from this question: anything lacking in funding is a debt that goes against suppliers. And, therefore, precisely, what we have tried to do is to do exactly the opposite: it is to release the providers of this debt. Because this improves the condition of providers, who are service providers, very often service providers who are absolutely functional from a social point of view, too. So, sooner I guess we'd have to go in a bad way. Another thing is that, obviously, we don't share these levels of floor failure. And we don't share them and explain it. And, besides, we feel accompanied, because it seems to us that our technical criteria are openly recognized by many institutions, including the Airef, which tells us: "Yes, yes, it is that these lords have all the reason of the world. All right, we have all the reason for the world and we will try to do it well in the field in which we can do it well, but unfortunately, these moneys of difference..., this difference between 0,6 decided for the Spanish government and what we believe should correspond in strict application of a law, which is 1,18, is a substantial difference, and to keep them from holding them is obvious that there is an inevitable difference in the presuppositional application. Then, too, Mrs. Romero referred..., or it seemed to me to hear, and if she's not so, then, listen, I immediately withdrew, that she didn't like the tax on sweet beguds. But your group voted for it, this tax, November 11. So it also seems to me... it's not a criticism. I mean, if he's changed his mind, it seems good to me; if he hasn't changed his mind, it seems good to me, too, but in any case I do, because if someone is surprised that he has this fact, he is, and that he gets the value as he thinks most opportune. For what he does to the modifications of the extension that was commented on in the committee – and what came the secretary of Economy, that you also understand that he said that he did it very well, etcetera, which I celebrate, because the secretary of Economy does it well, the counselor, no, from his point of view, but the secretary of Economy, yes – these references of modification are references that are related to the recognition of expenses that mostly come from previous exercises. Therefore, it is also evident that there are limitations here in the movement of parties, in a situation of prorogation. Well, I... I think it's good that we remember it and explain it in those terms. With regard to the intervention of Mr. Coscubila, who was speaking to us, that is, the fact that he is also against this 0.6_per_cent deficit relief, I would answer him, or say, the same one that I have commented on many occasions. I am very happy that we agree on this aspect, as I understand that they must agree on many others, but one day we agree that this has a presuppositional consequence, unfortunately, scarce. And if there's any public administration that's able to jump off this floor without this implying a debt to the provider, so, listen, happy to study it, to look at us - all folded. But for now, as far as I know, it doesn't exist. Therefore, please reiterate your gratitude for the support that you and other groups give us in this matter, but, unfortunately, this has a very limited presuppositional consequence, and also in other administrations in which you can collaborate in the presuppositional approval. Well, then there are a lot of character comments, I insist, political... which you have made reference to. I wouldn't want to spend too much time in my intervention. I understand that I have not spoken at any time of political questions. In my initial intervention, at least, I haven't even talked about referring or talking about independence. In contrast, some of their interventions have been largely monothetical on these issues. Res, just a pair of acclaims. One, to Mr Coscubiela: it is not to pass these for the big beast, it is to pass them for the big beast. And an acclaim to Mr Fernández about the word harakiri. In Japanese it's an unpleasant word. "Harakiri, in Japanese, is a little grotesque. They don't let her serve, they don't like her. They're serving Seppuku. I'll tell him if he can be used in future interventions, huh? , for a matter of being more reliable in the use of language that nadius make in this language. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.26.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Let us now proceed to the turn of speeches for the reply of the parliamentary groups. In the first place, has the word the Lord Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.27.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I'm going to insist on what I said, that it was an inflation of income through certain taxes. Look, I keep on saying that in the inheritance tax, when precisely the collection carried out, which has been carried out, until October 2016 it turns out that it is less than 10_per_cent to that carried out in 2015 on the same dates, even if I go to the final forecasts of collection..., because the truth is that I still think that, certainly, taking into account the revaluations of the assets..., because I believe that the revenue proposal that bring us in the budgets is overvalued and is decisively optimistic. Well, you say: "Well, and we are cautious about the liquidations that will come to us by the IRPF and VAT, and the hydrocarbons. Well, here too we will continue to disagree, of course. Why? For, look, it is true that you say: "We will continue to grow, but less. Yeah, that's right. But that less has to be translated and said: "Well, therefore, the income forecast, comparatively, also has to be lower. So, the truth is that, given that growth, I don't get the numbers – I don't get the numbers – that, for example, by IRPF we are going to collect, or collect, more than 8,000_million, as you say. So, that's right, and we'll have the opportunity during 2017 to see how the budget forecast is being implemented and see who we're right, whether you or us. You say: « Exports. Well, of course, exports are going to be reduced in percentage terms. There'd be more to it if we had a regression. We are not going to have a regression, but they are going to reduce in percentage. And then, here comes the following reflection: these exports have been based primarily on the internal devaluation of the wages we have suffered. Precisely, if those wages are to be recovered, they will be harmed. Why? Because the production system does not add value to the products, because the Catalan production system, just as the Spanish one, does not create enough added value to make wages grow, but we can also sell, let's say, in the same way. Therefore, to the extent that these wages increase will make us less competitive, and therefore we will be able to export less. Not anymore, of course, less than now, but less every year. Why? Because if we don't do structural measures that change that, our competitiveness is basically based on low wages. And that's obvious. And to that we must give a change of direction, because, if not, four days from now we will have the same problems that we have had very recently. That is to say, we will grow back less than the European Union grows. We will grow back less because our economy is actually less competitive. And, of course, based on that... what has allowed us, in addition to low wages? For what I was saying to him: the change in the euro; the devaluation in the prices of fuels, which are as never before, but which is also true that Catalonia and Spain have a special dependence on oil and fuels, and very low rates on the part of the ECB, which, as we are so indebted, will in particular harm those countries that we are heavily indebted. Therefore, when I said to him, "Hey, this is not about generating deficit and debt, because in the end that will be very expensive for us, because that is a little what I wanted..., to put. And then, going into aspects..., also, again, listen, I have criticized something also fundamental, and it is the 60_million_euro squandering of a tax agency that is going to collect exactly the same as it collects with a budget of 35_million. That must be known: that is a waste, that is a waste that we, of course, are not going, nor are we willing, to share. And if you want I keep insisting, but another issue is the issue of the Cesicat, the topic of spending on projection or external action, which is also, as you know, full of successes. Understand me: full of successes in the sense that no one listens to us, no one attends to us, and it is an absolutely useless expense. Nothing more for the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.28.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The words of Ms.Alícia Romero of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.29.0	Thank you, President. Nice late again. I'd like to say five things, Mr. Junqueras. The first is that..., to see how I say it because it's not misinterpreted, but don't you think he sometimes lacks a little respect for opposition? Home, come here and say that we're together in a room, that we're doing a "matxembrate" of what we said and that we're doing a summary, I don't know, or you haven't listened to us, because I think we've said quite different things, some similar things, because probably, with Catalonia Yes, we can share, from the Socialist Group, enough the view of the premise, but little with Citizens and people with the PP. So, I don't know if you haven't listened or are not interested in listening, but maybe what you have to do is listen to us at four again and make the summary of what we have said and, from here, answer us. Because, what I think is that he just didn't do it, that's it. [[Some applause.]] And besides, at the end of your intervention, you say, "I haven't talked about political issues, have I? Well, what did he talk about if he didn't talk about political issues? Because, listen, the assumption is the most political one this Parliament approves, it's where, black on white, we put what the government wants to do. If there's nothing more political than that, I'll explain it to myself. And we came here, and in 30 minutes – a few more seconds – we made a political speech. Yes, we can get into technical things, which I think is what you did very well to try not to get into the political arena, because I don't think he cares enough, or he doesn't like what we said, that it's something else. But we have done a political analysis of the premise, where we said to him: "We do not share his model of society and his model of country. We do not like this model that exemplifies its premise and, therefore, we will not vote in favour of it, and that is why we have presented this issue to the totality. Miri, when you talk about the tickets and the deficit, etc., you know that we are with you in the fight for a better remedy of deficit. So, we'll do what we can, and you know it. Finance system. Home, we'd love to work and negotiate with the state a better financial system. Why? Home, therefore, because if we can improve funding today, now more resources than enter the Generality to dedicate to the better quality of life of the citizens. It's just that that's all it's about. Listen, we're still working on it. Catalans are practical people. And then more tickets. Change fiscal policy, reform the taxation of this country. It can reach between 800 and 1,000 million euros plus modifying IRPF's estates, assets, autonomous trams. Yeah, yeah, we could be at 800 or 1,000 million euros. Ah, anyway, it's a lot! It's an important cipher. Yeah, yeah, escort'm, grab him. Miri, not me, professors of the University of Barcelona, I don't want to say names, they came to a day of the Platform for Fair Taxation and they knew how to say it for good. Therefore, it is possible. You don't want to. It is another thing, but it is possible to make a tax reform more just and more progressive, which generates more income and redistributes this wealth to improve social policies. It can be done, but you don't want to. That's all right. We don't share that with you either. And when you talk about the tax on sugar beaks, I don't say we don't agree. Yes, we agree. What do you say that you base your entire fiscal policy on these kind of small taxes, which, in the end, you revert to? Who's he going to turn over the sugary beguds to have a tax? So, probably, unfortunately, at a higher cost than that dirty drunk. And what's going to happen? So, that's going to pay just as much for the dirty drink, with the tax, the lord who pays twenty thousand euros a year as the one who pays one hundred thousand dollars, I only said that. No, yes. Well, you'll say... And then something else. How will this tax be managed? With some self-liquidation that the merchants will do? This will be complicated to manage. Self-liquidations that will make each of the merchants according to the sweet beguds they've made. This will already explain to me how you will do it, but even you recognize in the intimacy that it will be difficult to manage, also with the resources we have at the tax agency. Moreover, with the incorporation of all that management that they do to the offices that liquidate the taxes that they have given, that you know that we have questioned and continue to question, because we do not believe that the tax agency can increase with the staff in these few months, with the difficulties and abilities that we ask the people that will enter. And you know, you've done a lot of tests and you didn't get the objective you were pursuing. So, listen to me, it's not that we're against these sugary drunks, it's that it seems to us that in the end this will, as always, impact on the city. And then we think that the management of this tax to get 40 million euros is very complex, when, listen to me, modifying the IRPF's autonomous tram we get more resources and they're more just and progressive. So much, Mr. Torrent, and so much! I'll pass you the powerpoint Dr. Vilalta presented to the Fair Taxation Platform. Home, yes, I'll pass the dice, because you see it. An expert in public history. And then, man, he gives some income data per capita... that's to say, we dedicate per capita to the Jews and the Pyrenees. Home! But what I'm saying is that these are unpopulated territories; people go to cities because you don't serve them. If you tell me what they dedicate per inhabitant, very little, because there are very few, unfortunately, there. And what we want is that there's more. Tell 'political mquins will do in these territories because people don't march. Don't tell me how much you dedicate to it per inhabitant; if they're so few, the global quantity is a laughing matter. No, of course, we use the parameters that interest us according to what. So, no, say 'how long will he invest and how many resources and how many policies for this. Sometimes we ask for a little rigor. And finally, in these eight seconds: Mr. Junquera, I understand you that the teacher comes to you, but you give many lessons – you give many lessons–, even as we have to talk about Members. Home, a little more humiliation and a little more rigour and a little more active listening when we come here to make political assessments of the assumptions that you present to us. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.30.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Next, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.31.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Junqueras, in parliamentarianism, and you know it, there's a golden rule: when an economic advisor doesn't do the one-on-one debate with a parliamentary group, it's because he doesn't want to argue, because he wants to camouflage, because he doesn't want to answer, and then he gets mixed up in comments more or less frivolous, sympathetic, giving lessons, which is what you do systematically, which makes it manifest that very sure you don't have to feel at the time of defending these assumptions. I don't think I'm disrespectful of what you have for us, even though I'm starting to doubt it. I don't think it's too much humiliation or too much wisdom either. I just think it's better to blame it on the fact that you don't feel like you're defending these assumptions; you don't feel sure because you're making a left speech, but you bring us some assumptions without tax reform to pay more than you have. You make a hyperrealistic speech in the economics and you present us with a hyperrealistic political project in the policy. And, of course, when this goes into the debate, and you run away, you run away from the study. And that's why he makes this global challenge that allows him to take the PP's intervention and stay in all of the same cyst, when I think we've said different things and we deserve a different answer as well. By the way, did you notice that the People's Party did not challenge the significance of its assumptions? Curious, isn't it? Do you know why? I think I do; because much of the economic, fiscal issues have been voted for jointly by you. They are in favour of their fiscal policy, the one you practice, and they are in favour of not playing the elitist school concerts. They are in favour of everything that you are voting together, more often than not with anyone. You do not vote with the CUP, you vote with the People's Party and Citizens on all economic issues, from this point of view. He didn't give us any... he says we're dedicated to discussing politics. No, no, listen, we've raised issues of profound presupposition – and political, of course. No, at least we haven't been answered by any of the big debates we've raised. The issue of tax reform: say 'you've given up something that you've always defended, that Mr. Pere Aragonès explained every time he was in the name..., represented Republican Left. Why did you give up making them pay more than they have? What happens, according to you, before you go to the government, for the reform of the IRPF's Catalan tram, for the reform of the inheritance tax and donations and assets. Why did you suddenly and again give up these approaches and policies when you're a counselor? He doesn't want to answer because this, sense of doubt, is to catch him. As he also told us why he does not want to implement the guaranteed income of citizenry despite having a mandate. Therefore, not to mention in his intervention, neither in the first nor in the second, the guaranteed income of citizenship is not a lien or a lack of respect for us, it is a lien and a lack of respect for the people of promoters of the ILP, the people who are leaving themselves to defend this, and all the people who are hoping to have guaranteed returns. You're starting to downplay people in your interventions. But it's that, in addition, from this point of view, I'm setting it up, Mr. Junqueras. I said to him: "We believe that with 500_million for the 2017 budget we could get out with its implementation. Two-cents_night is already spent on minimum income; 232 is 0.1_percent of GDP. That's to say, this is what you can get from these assumptions, because you're not saying that you planned them with 0.5. The margin is already 0.6. I mean, it can get 232 million more. Can't we get 100_millions more out of this budget to reach 500 in 2017 and start implementation? There's something hard about her placement. In the same way that it is difficult for you to be frivolous about the issue of public deficit. No one is suggesting that the issue of public deficit is not important. It is clear that we all want to reduce the public deficit, but I said to him: "There are two ways to do this: one, increasing the entrances, making fiscal reforms; the other, relating social rights, which is what has been done so far, and here is where I told you not that you are the advanced student of the troika, that you are the advanced student of the policies of the troika, yes, but I do not say so, I say to your memo. You are proud to have reduced the deficit by 5,600_million euros and to have dropped from 4,8 to 1,9. Ah, what you're not saying is that this has been at the expense of some brutal governments that you've fought against, others have been raised, but now it's theirs. And these are the debates you were supposed to go into, and you didn't want to go in. Certainly, let's say it: the only reference to what I think I have clearly linked the presuppositional debate to its policy strategy. And I say it again: yours are economically submissive and disciplined assumptions, emboldened with an appearance of political disobedience, and it's clear that you can't stand it. Why did we all congratulate Mr. Pere Aragonese the other day? That I hope you didn't mind, because it seemed like the discomfort we congratulated him. So, why? I hope I didn't cause you any trouble, Pere. Why did we congratulate him? Because he made an absolutely realistic intervention. But this has to do with how, as you say, you can't square this assumption and can't overcome the deficit, and the year you see one day we go to sleep with Spanish legislation and we wake up with Catalan legislation, and all happy and happy. And congratulations. You don't understand what we have to say to him? That if you're not able to skip the public deficit, you're not able to skip a pam? And that's what we're telling her. You don't want to listen to him? Of course, because it puts him to manifest his contradictions. Well, I already know why you come here with this excess of security, because you have the approved premise, and you know it. And you approved of having used the alibi and the chanting of the process another time. We have to tell him. He doesn't like you, but we have to tell him. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.32.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Next is the words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.33.0	Thank you, President. I, contrary to the rest of the spokesman, am greatly satisfied with the intervention of Mr Junqueras, because with his silence he has ratified all that we have said for a long time. Because, actually, I said that you've come up with a profile, and so have you. He came to say he didn't want to stay in politics. It seemed to me that for a moment I would say that famous phrase of: "Do as I do and stay out of politics. He didn't dare say it, but, go on, it seemed like it. After that, he was absolutely unable to contradict the figures he provided, despite the fact that Mr. Coscubiela said that we did not mention a assumption that we have qualified, at all, from the past. He did not explain why a 32_per_cent in railway infrastructure, a 15_per_cent in industrial promotion, infrastructures of the rest, enterprise, civic security, which was explained, therefore, the traditional growth engines of the Catalan society. He didn't bother a second to try to contradict some very clear figures that we brought in. Third question, a question of form. The President made a bad deal of it when I had the army express itself. As we take care of our group, because its energetic debate must always be presided over for respect and expressions, I will tell you what the Royal Spanish Academy says: « Troop: Numbers of persons gathered with definite objective. The Catalan Encyclopedia says: « Says of a group of apes. The people have to be respected at all times and I thank them for saying yes with the head, because at the moment they never wanted to offend absolutely anyone with our expressions, and that's why I made myself clear. And finally, Mr. Junqueras, you say that to the Japanese you annoy them that we say harakiri in place of seppuku, but it seems that the vast majority of Catalans know better what harakiri is than seppuku. I know you still have to think that the world is watching us, but I can assure you that a few Japanese people are seeing this debate right now, for as much as you think. So I'm going to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on A little humiliation also requires it in its expressions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.34.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Then, in order to position himself, has the word of the Parliamentary Group's Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant. Candidature for Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.35.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Vice-President..., allow me to start with a preview; then we will continue as a parliamentary group with two points, to end with a conclusion. It's obvious – and I don't think anyone gets away – that today is not a comfortable day; we are living in a complicated and complex situation. Today we know that everyone... both of us will criticize us. Today we know that those who, despite criticizing the status quo and criticizing the 78 regime, have little value in addressing decisively the need for a break with this regime, decisively, clearly and diaphanously, those who, also, some, are refusing to hear the need to become the republic of the Catalan people, will take advantage of this occasion to try to launch us into the lions. We also know that those who repeat independence first and then we will not see it either want to hear our criticisms and refuse to accept many of the proposals. As usual, because everyone knows where we are and why we are here, and we accept criticism and assume contradictions. Six months ago we insisted that the process of restructuring capitalism is designing societies where social emergence is chronic and becomes a reality of misery for millions of people in our home. And we remembered that austerity as received for the outflow of the crisis is a lot of bad news for the group of popular classes, that we see how social rights are spread and our working and living conditions are precarious. In the face of macroeconomic data announcing incipient growths, let's look at how this growth is analyzed. Why, instead of looking at GDP, don't we look at how many hours people are working on the market again? Perhaps then we would add that, despite an economic growth, precariousness is what grows day by day. So let us also watch. In the words of the company, and pastisser, economist, Josep Manel Busqueta, in a model of capitalism that assures its benefits based on increasing the poverty and inequality geometrically, we have, in the best of the cases, instruments of economic policy that allow us to do so in arithmetical proportion. As a result we have that every year that passes the social reality and the resources that we have to deal with it are more migrated in relation to it and not even higher in absolute terms. Today's public policy has become the policy of the management of misery, leaving growing majority of the population at once in the background, in search of charity, says the Search. How this debate would donate for many hours and today, unfortunately, is not the time, we, as a parliamentary group, do want to deliver it and we will give the vice president a book of the company Search so that one day we can calmly approach this debate. But let's go to the presuppositions. You spoke of the enormous difficulties of the Catalan economy and of a relative one, between comets, "better. This is the first year in a lot of debt counseling is diminishing. We might think that it is the result of an explicit and hard work to reduce the debt, but in the fund it does not respond to an intentional retail policy, as the majority of councils have suffered, but it ends up responding to a logic of the economy that causes the interests of the low debt, but in the fund it causes or generates that we end the year with more debt than we started. Therefore, this subject, as we have already said on other occasions, is a subject that generates..., and that we can analyze it in depth, so to speak of relative improvement when in the background we do not develop clear policies in this sense we generate doubts. That the finances of the Government of Catalonia are in a more delicate situation is no surprise to anyone. That completing the deficit imposed on the Ministry of Heritage, for Brussels's charge, paying timely debts, interests and other financial commitments, and at the same time dealing with social investment without running into new details is revealed as an almost impossible mission, we know. Autonomism limits our economic sovereignty. It is clear that in the context of political submission to the Spanish State and to the European Union there is a limited recourse at the time of making economic proposals for profound social transformation through the assumptions. But it can be done more, it can aim for change, it can prove that the republic that we build is different from the autonomy, the autonomy that we have known in the last thirty years. Referendum, proceedings constitute and social rescue. The main pillars of this legislature were, are and will be three; they are three pillars on which the political action of the CUP - Constituent cry and on which rests its final outcome, in the claus of sovereignty, democracy and social justice, which we think is the major anthel of our people; as I said a moment ago: referendum, processes constitute and social rescue. And so, in the Plethora of the question of trust, Anna Gabriel said: "It must therefore be assumptions that are a tool to win the referendum. And because we can win the independence referendum, the idea of the referendum must be able to be associated with a project of progress, a project of majorities, a project oriented to benefit them and not to a project that, like the thirty years of autonomy, is oriented to benefit and protect the interests of some elites who are often corrupt and always compromised with the same status that has denied us the right to self-determination while making it easier for the rich to be each time richer while the poor were on the rise. We have based this on the need to reverse the detail. And, in the background, if I look at the country that surrounds us, the thousands of denunciations, the precariousness and the detailing for two years to the public service, they force us to go further than the proposal that was put on the table, of assumptions. If we analyze the project presented today, we see how we continue to greyen the private arches; we see how, in public services, they continue to reward businesses, foundations and extended consortia of public control and city. We already know that in this, we don't agree with each other. But it is that the management model proposed in this project is an extension of what has been done so far, it is to maintain the mixed management model that for some is successful, but that, above all and permanently, is successful for those who manage the private sector, since it is the ones who get no benefits. Do public resources entirely vacate the public? Are we working to finally strengthen and shield public services in this country? Because, if we look at the Department of Education, we say that the investment in education has increased compared to 2010, we have to make it clear that the number of students has also increased. Because, in education, the assumptions of 2017 assume an investment of 3,620_euros per student; 2010 assumed an investment of 4,215 per student. Thus, despite the fact that the proposed assumptions increase 330_millions of education spending – and it is the only one that, in global terms, improves the reversal of 2010 assumptions – an important part of this increase will increase educational concerts: 55_millions of euros. Proposals to improve the quality of public education, such as the increase of six thousand teachers, which would allow groups to unfold, among others, we could increase groups, we could therefore improve the educational quality of this country, they are far from being collected. This late we had here, at the door, different representatives of unions claiming these six thousand more teachers, understand that this is a clear bet for the public school, for this model of public school that works for the social cohesion of the country, for the social cohesion of the republic. Don't we have €140 million to deal with this? Keep going. It is worrying that at a time of crisis such as this the assumption of the councillorship of Work and Social Afers and Families increases..., does not arrive..., or its increase does not reach 200_million euros, of a total, of pressure, of 27,000_million euros. We believe, as has already been said in other parliamentary groups, that it is necessary to tackle once and for all the need to implement a guaranteed income of citizenship as a right subject, and, therefore, to go further than words, to put resources to it. And finally, the government has decided not to alter some of the elements that most injustice creates at the tax level and over which it has power; it's said: estates, assets, the IRPF's autonomous tram. I'm more than that, aren't I? In this logic, we do not increase or reform taxes on what we have the possibility of, and we leave the public services in residue or margin. Here we ask ourselves: is this the will, not changing anything? Is that to say, to keep taxes as they are? , continue to maintain public services as they are? It's obvious that they can't want to keep all the privileges and favors accumulated for thirty years and pretend to win the referendum. And it's that we're here to win the referendum, we're here to get it or to show that the republic is an opportunity, and that's why the assumptions should also be the point of inflection in social policies, they can't be a continuous assumptions with neoliberal policies that have increased inequalities over the years and unstructured public services. They think they're keeping the rescues on the ski slopes, keeping the endorsements to the Ecclestone Formula One Group and the Montmeló circuit, failing, or trying to deploy Barcelona World, are we building the 96_per_cent republic? Since the conviction and certainty that there are alternatives and that different things can be done, we have made and made a series of propositions to the law of assumptions. Among them, we propose to combat austerity and deficit policies by eliminating topalls and barriers to staff recruitment and increased spending in strategic public sectors. In addition, we propose a reduction of 19_percent in the salaries of the higher ranks and possible ones in order to fully allocate it to the guaranteed income of citizens. We know that maybe it's not enough, but we need a 96-per-cent country. We propose greater control of the downstream policies of the Government of Catalonia; we believe that we cannot continue to endorse projects such as the Circuit de Catalunya. We propose the creation of eleven presuppostary programs linked to cross-cutting foundations and which have different foundations with different objectives: the fight against corruption and tax evasion, to rescue externalised services and to recover its public management with a general foundation, but also with concrete proposals, such as a program of comprehensive management of emergencies, to eliminate the precariousness of cultural policy, or to rescue and make public the Catalan highways. They are country structures, they are public assets, and, therefore, they must also be provided in a public way. We propose to create a public park of land habitating of the territory. We propose a structural foundation of social cohesion and for the guarantee of entrances designed to develop the guaranteed income of citizens..., a foundation. We propose to create a Catalan public bank that goes beyond the current Catalan Institute of Finance. And finally we also propose to create a land bank. The idea of these foundations, which also go beyond – a foundation of cooperation, of fighting against climate change, of defending natural heritage, of policies of equality between genders and of fighting against male violence, of cooperative economy – is to demonstrate that the construction of the republic is different from the thirty years of autonomy and the hundred years of years of logic where 4_per_cent controls and dominates 96_per_cent, that policies can be done differently and can be done throughout the population. Finally, if these are to be the presuppositions of the breakup and which, moreover, make us win the referendum, as I said, we need to take a step forward in the resolution of the triple crisis of the coming: institutional, economic and national crisis. And, therefore, the assumptions need to be taken into account in each of these three areas: to make more money for the wealth they have, to ensure that we are laying the first stone to recover public services, to put the needle in the financing of the process, and to guarantee the maximum good that the reference will be articulated or how the reference will be articulated so that there is no left and we are clear, as in the country, as we do. This legislature must be exceptional and this means referring, processes constitute and social rescue. And, as he concluded, today the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - the Constituent Creed makes confidence, but it does not trust in Parliament, not in the Government, it trusts that it will be the conjunction of the Catalan people that will ultimately stifle the true sense of self-determination to this legislature in which we are in. You're opening a debate, and we're opening a debate with all the weirdness. And to all of them, to all of the people, who are the ones who have brought us here, we say that, for what remains of us, we will remain firm and firm, as we have always been, on the road to independence, without giving..., and continuing to struggle for everything that the struggle for social rights and the defense of a more just and dignified society for everyone represents. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.36.0	Thank you, Mrs. Regant. Then, to answer, has the words of Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.37.0	Again, good afternoon to everyone. Thank you for the book, for the present. With Josep Manel Busketa I had occasion to share some errands a few years ago to the Pompeu Fabra. I'll try to make it as quick as I can. Some considerations of respect for what has been said, let's say. Regarding the end, which has also been the central point, perhaps, of the intervention, respect this triad formed by the referendum, the process constitutes and the social rescue, we understand that to a large extent we share many questions. With regard to the reference, absolutely; we have no doubt. We are convinced that democratic paths are the right paths because citizens can decide about the individual future and about their future collection. It is obvious that the reference, in this sense, is an unquestionable democratic instrument. It is true that some groups have referred to the risks of the celebration of references because they may have consequences that they do not like; but we have seen, unfortunately, that parliamentary elections have consequences that many do not like us, let us say, and therefore are not guaranteed that parliamentary elections always give the results... – or presidential elections – always give the results that the various groups of this chamber would prefer as we do. Therefore, in the way of the reference we are absolutely compromised, as it cannot be otherwise. We have always been referendums, we have always been self-determinationists; therefore, absolute coincidence in this. With respect to the process constitute, three-quarters of the same, let's say. We are convinced that there must be a process of the new republic, that there must be a path in which the constitution of the new republic is also being worked out. We believe that this process must be a process in which all citizens participate, social participation, political groups, entities, etc. And, for what it does to social rescue, we are convinced that these assumptions are also a demonstration of the will to proceed to this social rescue and to reverse a good part of the detail that has occurred during the years of the crisis. We are convinced that these assumptions reflect this, that in some respects they are... – for example, in percentage terms, it has been said – they are the most social assumptions that have ever been made, with this 74.7_percent of the assumptions for these social policies. They are also in some areas in absolute terms. The maximum of the name of teachers, obviously. It is also true that this is the result of the vegetative growth of the number of students, especially at these times in high school, because the number of students is certainly reduced to child education. But anyway, it's a certain fact, let's just say it. As well, on the margins of this growing vegetation, there is a bet to help the centres of maximum complexity. There's a bet for inclusive school. And, therefore, it seems to us that, to a large extent, these assumptions represent this social rescue. Obviously, we'd like to go a lot further. Surely, or with all certainty – « certainly understood as the synonym for « sure. And so did the spokespersons, too, from other parliamentary groups. I insist: we certainly have many of the proposals that have been made to us that would please us not only to include them, but to go even further. Another question is whether at these times we have the presuppositional availability, the availability of political character, because the assumptions are also political, allowing us to dispose of these resources in the fullness with which we would like. And, certainly, here's a path that's a path that has to be done with two paths simultaneously, let's just say. One is how we show that the new republic that we want to build, effectively, will have substantially better aspects than the autonomous community of the present time, and, on the other, how we can build this new republic. That is to say, until we have this new republic we do not have the totality of the resources we want to dispose of. Certainly, to get there we also need to convince a lot of people that this is a way that is worth being resorted to, with all the vast complexity of our society, of this so wide fan that our society represents and that allows, for example, that a deputy of the PP quotes Pierre Vilar, Marxist historian, let us say to ourselves, huh? , something that we celebrate because we understand that it is also a demonstration of this social complexity that characterizes our country as a positive aspect. Respect the increase of the debt. The debt, the forecast is that I grew a 1.6_per_cent, because we are in a situation, in a context of deficit, concretely in a deficit that if the forecast fixed unilaterally for the Spanish government of 0.6_per_cent is completed, therefore, it would be at 1,400, 1,500_million euros. Therefore, there is an increase in the expected debt. It is also true – and this we have had occasion to explain – that, in terms of gross domestic product, there is a decrease in the debt expressed in terms of gross domestic product for a reason. I, it seems to me that I have also explained with all the frankness and nature of which I have been able. Because there is a combination, there is a combination that is a relatively high growth in GDP: it grows twice as much as the euro area average, and, at the same time, a gradual, often imposed reduction, in which we do not necessarily agree. In fact, we say that the deficit should be, as at least, in 1:18. Therefore, it is not that we are happy with this reduction of the deficit; however, in any case, this reduction of the deficit to which at these times we do not have the instruments to respond, combined with the growth of GDP, implies that the debt expressed in terms of GDP decreased for the first time, according to this forecast, in a 0.4_per_cent and that the increase, this year 2016, was an increase of 0.1_per_cent. It is obvious that this, and I also said it, has non-positive consequences, has negative consequences, in the sense that it limits our ability to spend and invest, that it seems to us that it would be useful in certain areas, both to answer the needs of the present time and to guarantee an economic growth that also entails good assumptions in the future. At the same time, however, or precisely because of this, we want to make the way we want to do, because we want to assume all responsibility or all responsibilities. Responsibility pleases us as long as we want it all, and we want this country to have it all, and therefore the decisions we make are not attributable to anyone who takes them from our home. Therefore, it seems to me that in this aspect we have recourse to work there. Indeed, the financial situation of the public institutions is delicate, certainly, of all them, and, precisely, if any, at least partially, better, at least in the sense that I have just expressed now of the reduction of the debt in terms of GDP, it is precisely the one that passes to Catalonia, for this remarkable growth of the Catalan economy. But certainly the salvation financed is delicate to all public administrations practically all western states. With the threat that it will be even more when the types of interest push. And sooner or later the types of interest will advance. We do not know for sure when or at what time, or with what intensity; but probably, if the North American types continue to rise, what will happen is that, above all, in the second that intense energy, there will be a shift of estalvi, for example, of estalvi Europe, to look for a higher type of interest. And when this happens, then, the European Central Bank and the European institutions will probably also respond with an increase of the type. Remember: in Catalan terms an increase of '1_per_cent in the types of interest would end up with, somehow or otherwise, an increase in the cost of servicing the debt of some 750_million euros, and therefore it is evident that this has a very important impact. If we compare it to the increase in the presuppositional capacity, from a departmental point of view, equal to the half of the increase produced this year, in this sense. In terms of the Spanish State, I had the opportunity to explain it to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council the other day, because I explained to them: "Escoltin, it is obvious that we want to make independence, we want to make a reference, it is good that they feel it by our mouth. Be aware that this will have implications for all of you. So, I don't know... you're also good at being prepared in this sense. Remember that there may be an increase in the type of interest, and this has consequences on the presuppositional availabilities of all the administrations that you represent. In the case of the Kingdom of Spain, an increase of 1_percent in the type of interest implies an increase in the cost of servicing the debt of EUR 10,000_million. And it is clear that EUR 10,000_million is a very remarkable amount, especially if we see the efforts the Spanish Government is trying to make to cover EUR 5,500_million, EUR 6,000_million, and all the fiscal measures it is taking, such as anticipating the payment of corporate tax, not allowing the fraction of VAT payment, with the consequences that this has on business forecasts, its liquidity, its ability to invest, generate jobs, etc. It seems to us that the effort in the social field... And, in this sense, also, remember that since 2010, with Councillor Joaquim Nadal in the front, it was considered that public transport was part of social policies. Therefore, we understand that we are not innovative in things that have not been done in a traditional way since seven years ago. But, focusing on the field of teaching, health and work and social affairs, it seems to us that there is a remarkable display of this reversal of the trend that has existed so far, and that the presupposed increases, the increases in presuppositional availability, so show. Then, a reflection that I suppose is of economic, political and, perhaps also, historical character. In Catalonia, a part of the non-public sector is also the heritage of sectors linked to the cooperative world, the mutual world, the world of social participation, the entities of the third sector, etc. And, therefore, it seems to me that it is also very worthwhile to keep it well present, because it forms part of our tradition as a country, because it forms part of a social reality, because it increases the plurality of services, of services, of ways to face reptes, etcetera, and, therefore, it seems to us that it has aspects, obviously, also, positive. For what it does to the narrow field of teaching, current expenditure, in current terms, is located close to the highest historical levels. What there is, a fever... – and I have also explained it, it seems to me that with a detailed relationship, and before Mr Coscubiela also in ugly reference, in this sense, respects my intervention–, what there is a fever of the ability to reverse – of the ability to reverse – in infrastructures, which is also the consequence of the fact that the available, the increased budget available, the center in the most immediate social policies, and, therefore, in this compromise with the inclusive school, in this support to the schools of maximum complexity, with this endowment of 3,600 dozen more, etc. Certainly, I also take the opportunity to refer to an intervention by another spokesman, respecting the difference between the number of seats he has and the number of places he is supposed to have: it is because there are some of these seats which he has previously assumed, and therefore those which we incorporate are the new premises; but the number of seats are the forecast and the announcements for the president, let's say, eh? In other areas that are not strictly teaching, also teaching, but in the rest. Then, another consideration: I understand that when I did, the CUP spokesman, referring to a xifra, which was 140_million euros, I understand that this is a xifra of quarterly character and that, therefore, in annual terms it would be worth multiplying it by four, or not? Anyway, we're already... I'm sure we'll have a chance to make this clear. I, for the time being, I'd leave it here. I'm sure we'll have a chance to talk to each other and discuss it with all of you on countless occasions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.38.0	By the turn of the line, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.39.0	Well, thank you very much, President. See, to clarify this: we ask six thousand more teachers for the course you are going to. We understand that..., if they want, that the six thousand most teachers start the 1st generation of 2017, but we understand that with the beginning course it is more difficult to begin to unfold groups and generate more movement and, therefore, it is from the 1st of September 2017. Yes, it's a quarter, but not because it multiplies by four, but 2017 has four quarters, so, from September 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017. And this is the logic of what different teaching sectors demand, not just unions, but also other collections, families, that demand this as a bet for the better quality of teaching and, therefore, an armoury and defense of public school, as I said before, as a driving force of social cohesion in the country we are building. Because in this we have certain problems or certainly differences. That is to say, we are talking about the inclusive school and the increase that the inclusive school entails, but then we find that all this increase ends up destined for outsourcing and contracting no more teachers or people as public servants, but to outsourcing it and contracting companies for doing these services. Therefore, the armoring of the public school continues without being there. Therefore, look for some way to work for this bet clearly. You know that we were..., when we started the talks to get to the point where we arrived today – when we arrived – at the point where a debate took place – not only here, but we also expected it to be outside – we had to put it on the basis of three axes: there was one that was the break, that was related to reference and process, that is, that is, very likely... – while some days come external statements that make us question it – but these are the key points where we agree and where we come to..., and we are more clear that we agree. Another element was the reversal of retail and privatizations. And here's where, as I said before, it's harder for us to see that this is the bet, because we can't find it. When there is no more detail, it does not mean, necessarily, that it is reverse; it means that they do not get tired, that they consolidate what was there. They don't get tired anymore, but they don't reverse. When, in the background, certainly with policies, what happened is to continue to externalize, to continue to grease, in the background, private arches instead of empowering public servants, as they should be educated or sanitized, we do not revert privatizations. Therefore, this is where we have some problems and elements where we believe there are no points of finding. And, finally, the last element was that of wealth redistribution, that of beginning to eliminate privileges, accumulated privileges beyond all the years that we have, and neither have we just seen..., although there are some taxes, which, as it was also said, are not redistributive, are recaptatory taxes, but do not redistribute. So, here, if you keep it so clear that with the proposals that certain groups make to increase..., or tax reform, we don't get tickets, put on the table the numbers they have. Put them down, so we can all know, and we can all agree it wouldn't be good for anything. But since this is not on the table and has not been placed on the table, we continue to say, based on the study we have, that this will increase tickets. And, therefore, it would make it easier to continue working for the reversal of retailing, of privatizations. And, therefore, in the end, to ensure that one of the three pillars of this legislature as social rescue is due to term and we can begin to visualize that the republic we build is not the 4_per_cent republic, but the 96_per_cent republic, where all the rights are guaranteed that, in the fund, can be guaranteed to make a society fairer and fairer. But, well, today, let's start this debate and hope that, as a minimum, in the papers that we have presented with this will to prove that there are alternatives, that there are possibilities to generate foundations and lives to work decisively towards the guaranteed income of citizenship, to start laying stones for, when the time comes, to reverse the outsourcing of public services, we can, as a minimum, debate this, and see how far, in this Parliament, and especially to where, outside, we arrive and find what is done. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.40.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. The words of Mr Roger Torrent, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.41.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, I understand that a little my job here is to try to refocus the debate on the assumptions, because at the length of the late time between Nostradamus catastrophes failed; between left-wing theoretic paladins, left-wingers, and marine historians, the truth is that the assumptions have not been discussed a little. There's been a lot of talk, but there's been a little talk about assumptions. Therefore, I will try to refocus a little the debate and, in any case, put a little rigour on it. 2017. The assumptions are for a year, 2017, in which we enter with the certainty that it will be a decisive year, that it will be a definite year. "The year of democracy, we could say so. The year of the referendum. And we obviously need assumptions that are groundbreaking to deal with this exercise, that are groundbreaking to deal with this year. They are basic because they generate public policies to help families that are essential, that are inexcusable. Families that may not follow the dialectics that in greater or lesser degree, with greater or lesser uncertainty from here, but do expect the reduction of waiting lists, waiting for home care or waiting for all other social policies that may contain these assumptions. They are public accounts for this; they are essential to ensure this, to intervene in the present and, therefore, to try to solve all the emerging needs of today, but also assumptions that call for the future, that speak of immediateness, but also that speak of the imminence of the future that awaits us. This is the front: changing the mark, making a new mark. We need to know, like the country, that when we face the needs of our people, we can access them and act with the maximum of instruments, with the maximum of them in our hands, with the maximum of responsibility. We want all the skills to be able to make social policies, and obviously build a greater welfare for our citizens, a greater welfare we deserve. And to prove it, let's take advantage of all the maneuvering skills that we have at our hands today, for as long as it is, for as little as it is, all the maneuvering skills that we have. This has improved the living conditions of our fellow citizens; it has improved the living conditions of Catalans and Catalans. And it would be politically irresponsible, socially reprehensible, not taking advantage of the margin, all the margin, the maximum margin we have today. We want to take advantage of all the margin to help those who suffer the most, but we want to take advantage of all the margin as well, and paradoxically, to overcome it. Before we remain independent, we need to know how to take advantage of everything that the current autonomous context, all that autonomy allows us to do with policies that help our fellow citizens, the families of the country. Basically, for three questions, for three arguments. First: because the needy are today, and they can't wait till May, the needy, the emergences are today. I mean, because that's the only way to prove what we want to do with all the tools that a state has, that it's to build well-being, to have dignity, as much dignity as possible, to all the citizens. And third, third argument: because only with a strong government will we advance towards independence, and a strong government is demonstrated by the strength of its social policies. These three arguments, these three questions are those that, from our optics, make a bar of conviction and responsibility, of the ethics of conviction and of the ethics of responsibility that make us carry these assumptions here today. This is what this project of assumptions does, to maximize the ability to make social policies that have autonomy. But we want to go further, we want to go from the narrow perimeters of the autonomic mark to the fullness of the republic. Switch lever; these assumptions must also be a switch lever. Certainly, they are autonomous assumptions– certain–, but they are essential for being able to make some of them in the summer. This is our approach to these assumptions. These are the axes that we have set ourselves at the time of facing these assumptions, and which can be summed up in three great ideas. First, the social vocation to meet the needs of the present, and also to draw the model of well-being that we will do; second, the idea that supports this project of assumptions, reference, reference, reference; the year 2017 will be the year of reference. And third and last eix, the construction of the structures that the future republic will need. These are the three axes that ultimately contain these assumptions, and these are the three axes that we need to use to judge these assumptions. They judge them as severely as possible, as severely as they want, but they do so rigorously. And rigour also makes us talk about the context in which these assumptions are made. Some assumptions are not only the will, the vocation they want to project, but also the context in which they are registered. And with regard to the context, with regard to the autonomous framework, we need to talk – because today there has also been a little talk, more than just a call to solidarity – about what we are talking about today, about the elements that the State is raising, and that are holding the finances of the Generality. We can talk about the FLA, this perverse system, this perverse tool of the FLA; from the calculus to the low of the beasts – the vice-president has spoken enough – which makes it right, in the background, whether the Generalitat is financing part of the State, or we can talk about the entire floor of the deficit. They know perfectly well – because you don't just say this government, you don't just say this Parliament, you say accredited entities in the sector – that the deficit, the deficit limit that would correspond to us is around '1,18_per_cent, and not the 0.6_per_cent that is missing. Certainly, Mrs Romero, you said today: "Listen, we will help you with the deficit limit. If they helped us, the PSOE has given the visa only to this increment of one tenth of the deficit limit. If that's helping us, please, don't help us. The deficit limit that the State marks for us is a draconian condition in relation to the finances of the Generality and, therefore, in relation to the assumptions, and consequently in the possibility of making social policies. And Mr. Coscubiela said, "Skip-on-the-skip-on-the-skip-on-the-skip-on-the-skip-on-the-skip-on-the-skip-on-the-skip-on-the-skip-on-the-skip-on-the-skip-on-the-skip-off limit. They're still disobedient. And I'd ask, Mr. Coscubala, and, then, how do you plan to finance the deficit? Make us more dependent on the benches? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Going to the bench? Antenna of the market? Is this his model of non-dependency, disobedience? Don't go to the FLA? Skipping the deficit limit to go to the benches and, therefore, making us more dependent on the benches? Not to us, but to future generations of Catalans and Catalans who will come. We could also talk here about the taxes that the Constitutional Court – day yes, day too, with this obsession about what everything..., everything that comes out of this Parliament – has been falling into one realm the other. Obviously, this is also an impediment, an important interbank at the time to increase the financing possibilities of the Government of Catalonia. Mr. Fernández said: "We are entering a new stage, the stage of the illustrative dialog. I think you said that textually. If all that I've put up with him seems to him to be evidence of an illusionary dialog, I don't know what you're talking about, what you're talking about, what you're talking about. All this is just proof of the contrary, that the dialog does not exist and that it has never existed. As a result, we cannot yet make the assumptions that Catalans and Catalans deserve the fiscal effort they make. Still today the effort made by the citizens of this country is not fully reflected in the assumptions. And just because we want to jump this wall, just because we want to overcome these constraints that limit us, it's legitimate and it's necessary for us to go back to everything that makes us want, I insist, to jump this wall. And we'll do it, we'll get over it, we'll get over this autonomous brand that's on us, and we'll do it through democracy, through the referendum. Certainly, there are those who came here and told him that EUR 5 million seemed excessive for a reference. Perhaps it is that they seem more suitable 5,500_million euros to rescue motorways. Democracy has a cost, and to some it seems that any euro, a single euro destined for democracy is already massive. Let us do, this 2017, the reference that will allow us to overcome the autonomic mark, and overcome this context in which assumptions have been made, despite everything, despite all the unthankful, socially expanded. Today's conditions have nothing to do with 2003 or 2010, for example; neither the state's entry status, nor the conditions, nor many other parameters have anything to do with it. It is therefore difficult to compare the realities of 2003, 2010, with today's; and much less so in absolute figures. It can be compared to that which is comparable, and to that which is comparable it is not marked by absolute figures, but it is precisely marked by relative figures, which are precisely relative because they relate some assumptions to others. Well, if we do that, we'll see that these assumptions actually contain a 74_per_cent..., a 74.7_per_cent, to be more accurate, of these assumptions are intended for social expense. And that's never happened, that's never happened with any other assumptions; it's the first time. You say: "They are not the most social assumptions of history. So, if they're the ones who spend the most on social policy, then what are they? Indeed, they are the most social assumptions that have arisen in this Parliament. This increase of 74,7_per_cent that makes these assumptions follow the most social involves 1,170_million euros, 1,170_million euros that is destined to those fundamental axes of the welfare state, is to say, to health, to education, to housing, to public transport, to social matters and, in social matters, also to the minimum income of insertion: 70_million more for the minimum income of insertion, precisely the compromise that this parliamentary group had, precisely the compromise that this Government had. We are talking about guaranteed income from citizenship, certainly, and you know perfectly well – if you were honest, you would have said – that there is an open question about what is working on this issue, where there are proposals on the table, where there is a proposal from the Government, a proposal from this parliamentary group on the table; a proposal that, if it is fixed, is more expansive, has higher imports, but it also poses a model more suitable to the most vulnerable than, for example, the proposal just made by the Government of the Valencia Country. And, bearing in mind that you are sure that you have many political sympathies with the Valencian Government, I am convinced that, given that your proposal is inferior to that of the Catalonian Parliament, you will approve this proposal that we have put on the table, which, I insist, is superior to the one presented by the Valencian Government. Therefore, make sure of ciutadania, and so much! And that's why he's working. And the compromise was precisely this 70_million euros more that are embedded in these assumptions and that will fit into successive assumptions, until we reach the commitments that we have made. Social expenditure on the axes, on the bases, on the foundations of the welfare state. Certainly, the hourly reform was also the welfare, Mr. Coscubila. And you say a lot about a former UGT secretary undermining the clock reform, as you've done from this window. [[Widow's remorse.]] The hourly reform was also the welfare, and if not, I asked all the workers...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.42.0	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.43.0	...and the workers of this country. [[Greetings.]] I'm done – I'm done, I'm done. Socially expanding assumptions. Under other assumptions of our environment, nor in those in which many of you participate in your government, participate directly or indirectly in your approval, has an increase of the, practically, 8_percent of expansion, 8_percent of growth. So, they're expanding assumptions. As it goes, we find ourselves before assumptions that obviously act before the needs of the present, but also draw the future we want. These assumptions are fundamental to addressing this transcendent year that we begin. They are fundamental for the year of democracy, for the year 2017, that it will also be the year that we will overcome the narrows of the autonomic model. And from our point of view we can do two things, obviously: either to do as was done June, and a majority of this Parliament, to raise all those millions of euros of increase in social policies that set up this Project of assumptions, or just to take advantage of them. We think we have the opportunity to take advantage of this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.44.0	Mr. Torrent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.45.0	...growth in social policies...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.46.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.47.0	I'm done – I'm done, I'm done –, President. Let us take advantage of them, for the ethics of responsibility and the ethics of the conviction that gave to the principle. And I know that responsibility..., and I know that conviction sometimes costs to exercise it, but it has to be exercised when it plays. And we understand that today he plays...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.48.0	Mr. Torrent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.49.0	...to approve these assumptions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.50.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.51.0	... basics for the families of this country, basics for democracy, basics for building the republic. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.52.0	Then comes the words of the Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.53.0	Nice late, again. Mr. Torrent, allow 'un certain exercises of synthesis, taking advantage of your intervention. Despite all the unthankful, you said, our economy, our society and our country are insurmountable. Ungrateful are many, ungrateful as an international economic crisis, and, despite this malgrateful, our economy grows more than twice as fast as the mid-euro zone. The bad guys are a lot, all the bad guys, all the bad guys on the wheels that the Spanish government puts on every day with its decisions, and, even so, our economy, also our public finances, get in the way, and every day we have a little more capacity, we get a little capacity to cope with the emergencies and the needs of our fellow citizens, who are in a weaker situation, and also to help boost our economic growth more and better. Therefore, there are not many unthankful, and we must face the most immediate emergencies. You said it a while ago, you said: "The needs that are now there will not be after, and therefore we have to give answers and, therefore, we have to give answers to what is urgent, to the urgent needs, some, unfortunately, that come from the moon, and at the same time we also have to be able to ensure that these assumptions, that this presupposition proposal is not only good for the immediate, it is not only good to give response to the emergencies of the moment, but also the best one to guarantee the continuity of this economic growth that, effectively and fortunately, benefits our economy, so as to ensure that economic growth and future recovery follow the guarantee of the best services, from the best social services to the future. And we actually have to move in one direction, in a few doubts, where we have to find the best balance between how we ensure that the deficits that we would like to do are the most appropriate deficits to respond to these emergencies and this growth before our economy and so many others are old-fashioned another time for an international context, that one day or another will be more difficult or that it will be more difficult than the present, and at the same time, as we are able not to pass on to future generations a part of the responsibility that we assume in the present time. And in this balance of how we take full advantage of the circumstance appropriate to the present time, before an increase of the types, as we are able to guarantee the maximum growth is very relevant, because our economy has increased or will have increased at the end of 2017 32,000_million euros. This growth also represents more fiscal recovery, it also represents, therefore, more fiscal capacity, more expenditure capacity and more investment capacity. And in the end what we want to do is to be useful, obviously, to all our fellow citizens, the citizens of Catalonia, to all, but in the end we are also convinced that our proposal and our project are also useful and are good for all around us, for all those who involve us. And in the end, the Catalan Republic, too, in the measure that helps the growth of our economy, in the measure that helps to design a fairer society, is also an element of esteem and is also an element of inspiration for all around us. Why in the end do we want what we want? May our suppliers, our customers, our neighbours, our friends, those with whom we have so many bonds, wander them as best as possible. And we are convinced that many of them want the same for us and want us to get out and want us to be able to take the whole range of political, economic and social decisions that most of this country wants to decide. Because in the end, if we get out of it, if we're okay with it, if our economy grows, if our society is fairer, it's good, too, I insist, for all those who involve us. If our country can take the decisions to launch the Mediterranean Corridor, wouldn't that be good for Valencia and for Murcia and Andalusia? Is that so? And I hear we have a lot more chance of getting out if decisions are taken by us? And who will benefit more than there is a Mediterranean corridor? To us, that we are so close to this border with France, to these railway connections, or to those that are more far and precisely because they are more far need to be closer to us? And are we or aren't we the best instrument because they can be more close to it? Well, I'm sure it is. And therefore, thinking of all of them, also thinking of the citizens of the Spanish State, thinking absolutely of everyone around us, we have an obligation, we have a mandate and we have a duty, which is a duty that we will fulfil, that is to bring this country to independence. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.54.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Torrent, will you exercise your right to reply? [[Pause.]] Don't you? All right, then. Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.55.0	For multiple contradictions with Mr. Roger Torrent, who accused me of things I didn't say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.56.0	Okay, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.57.0	Did I do it right today?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.58.0	All right, Mr. Coscubila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.59.0	[[The timer laughs.]] Thank you. Mr. Torrent, you have become accustomed to using the fallacy of the ballman, which consists in imputing to other things that you have not said in order to combat it more easily. What I said about the public deficit is not what you accuse me of. The one I said was three things, basically. One, that the public deficit is possible to get it by pushing taxes, improving the fiscal capacity that you renounce or retailing social rights, and you have chosen to do so. Second question: I said that I agree with you that 0.6_per_cent is unfair, but I said that what is more unfair than Mr. Junqueras and his government not even using the margin they have and making assumptions about 0.5, is to say, less than 0.6 raised. And what I have also said, in the third place, is that it is incomprehensible that you make economic assumptions that are so submissive and pose such disobedient political action to us. Certainly, about hourly reform – and I'm done. Nor have I been against hourly reform. I said, literally. [[Funnel veils]] ...no, I said, literally, that I was against the hourly reform auto-bomb campaign. Certainly, the best hourly reform is to end the labor reform that obliges women especially not to have a private life, because it is the life of entrepreneurs. [[remorse of the voice]] A reform that many of you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.60.0	Mr. Coscubila...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.61.0	...that boost the hourly reform they approved. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.62.0	... those thirty-seconds have donated for a lot, huh? For what I see. [[Roger Torrent and Ramio ask to speak.]] Call it a vote. Mr. Torrent, yes, I know, but while we're calling for a vote. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.63.0	For allusions and for self-explanation. Therefore, for the sake of own contradictions, we could say so, Madam President. [[Rialles and remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.64.0	I hope the thirty-seconds are thirty-seconds this time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.65.0	Very fast – very fast. In the first place, to Mr Coscubiela, as you should know, increase taxes and, therefore, increase admissions means not to be deficient. Therefore, it is not a way of financing the deficit, it is a way of obtaining more resources, but it has nothing to do with financing the deficit. And in any case, I thought I was asking for the word because, and I know it hard... as my partner Chakir was watching, a union came to my head that is not exactly what you were secretary general, and I said "UGT and I didn't say "Commissions." I thought I was asking for the word for it; in any case, I'm less self-excusing and they apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-20-2701.66.0	We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] The debate is over, and I am sure that, in accordance with Rule 129, all the items submitted must be put to the vote together. The vote's on. The papers to the totality of the Generality's Bill of Presumptions Project for the year 2017 have been rejected by 62 votes in favour, 64 against and 8 abstentions. Therefore, the Presumably Law Project continues its processing. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, they have to fix the input forecast and the maximum overall expenditure resulting from the project presented and the distribution of these by sections. They suspect the session until tomorrow morning, at nine.
