ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to everyone. And we also welcome Congresswoman Esther Niubó, who is the first day after her recent motherhood. Congratulations. [[Greetings.]] [[Question to the Government about gender-based violence]] [[300-00100/11]] Okay. The new item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on gender-based violence presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To introduce her, has the word Ms. Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.2.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, MPs and MPs, last November 23 the Government organized an institutional day to talk about strategic policies against male violence – day, certainly, very interesting. The March conference delivered by Ms. Begoña Lasagabaster, director of the Policy Division of the UN Dones, included the title "The Invisibility of Masclist Violence in Political Donations. His first words, in my opinion, were the key to hearing how we have to address the subject of male violence. Deia: "Male violence is not a woman's issue, it's a society-wide issue. I suppose the various members of this chamber share this statement. And, linking male violence with women in the political arena, he said: "Women suffer male violence of all kinds, especially insults, disqualifications, which usually have sexual connotations or which allude to domestic tasks. In fact, he recited a rule of insults that I don't think I can repeat right now. And she wondered why the different states did not denounce these assets, which are public and notorious. The answer is clear: politics, like most spheres of power in our society, has been dominated by men basically, and the loss of power often results in these demonstrations. A few days after celebrating the Day against Masclist Violence, more appropriate than today, from this Farestoll, demanding to the Generality the leadership of a great pact, counsel, a great Catalan pact against masclist violence and developing all the laws we have at hand. In fact, just a few days ago a great pact of state has been launched in Congress, through a sub-committee that is likely to be created. Therefore, we encourage your Government to lead this great Catalan pact where all entities, associations, different political parties, unions and social movements are represented and represented. MPs and MPs, male violence has no political ideology, because the struggle against this sacra will not improve if all of us do not work together: neither federalists, nor independentists, nor nationalists; all face the common front. Great fights are not won with messages of one hundred and forty characters or making statements to put on medals or come smoke, it is neither ethical nor healthy. The compromise is to work to make an effective policy real and to fight against this male violence. It is a matter of working in a transversal, interdepartmental and real way. And why do you say it in a real way? So, because we can't ignore the task that comes to an end at these times at the level of different departments of the Generality, which I might say is not at all well coordinated, yet. I could say that the Department of Justice and the Department of the Interior are doing a good cross-sectional task, yes; but there is still a long way to go to coordinate these two departments with the rest and, for example – and with a clear and urgent need to do so – with the education department. This should lead you, counsel, because, as head of the government's equality policies, you need to improve this coordination. In fact, I'm talking about the education department because unfortunately the last few months we've heard too often that male violence increases in the collection of the youngest. In fact, it is a very worrying fact, because, in addition, the last studies detect that many of these young people do not know how to perceive settlement, domination or control in their pairs. And that's disturbing. The basic tool for fighting gender-based violence is, to be sure, education. We need a protocol for the educational centers and we need it now. In these moments the education department does a preventive job, and we urgently need a training task for students, but also for teachers, for external staff... In short, education, the formation of education is one of the keys to the fight against male violence. Young people are our future and we must make every effort to harness all the tools and resources to address this problem. Primary and secondary curricula already include content of gender-based violence, but we are one step ahead. The formation must have objectives to take over young people, to guarantee autonomy and work together with them, to acquire nine steps on models of relationship between men and women, to transform social imaginations and to bet on relationships of equals. And, changing the subject, but without leaving the masculist violence, I would like to speak, even though it is still brief, of the controversy that arose a few weeks ago, known..., the problem of the Vido jutjats, the jutjats of violence on the woman. The risk of suppressing the rape courts persists, following the petition of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, since, in the end, it is the State that will have to decide it. In Catalonia, the number of rape courts over women rose from 467 in 2010, to 448 in 2015, and paralleled the reorganisation and detail of the information and care services for victims, the EADs; the special intervention services for rape, the SIEs, which are not enough, will advise, and you know it. Nor are there the gathering and recovery services of violence, the SARA, as we have long denounced the PSC. It can't be, he advises, that at the entrance of some jutjats we find signs like this one. [[the speaker shows a full camera]] , saying: "There has been a reduction in staff, therefore, have patience. The assumptions for prevention, detection and subsidization of entities struggling for equality fell from 9.8_millions in 2011 to 7.4 in 2015. We need to be able to make the full deployment of the law. It's not long ago someone said: "There are no judges specialising in male violence; there is a basic specialty, working there, because there is no previous training. Counselor, I did not say that, although I fully shared it, I did give it to the Secretary of Relations with the Administration of Justice, Ms. Patrícia Gomà. We can't lose skills in rape or the jutjats of Cornellà, El Prat, Martorell, Berga, Vilafranca, Vilanova, Valls, Figueres, Blanes, Balaguer, Cervera, Vic... Just to give us some examples, eh? In total, we could lose competition in thirty jutjats. And I know, she advises, that I am climbing competitions from another department, from Councillor Mundó; but, in short, the possible consequences of these detailings in the Vido courts have direct results in the assistance given to women who have been victims of violence. And I know you'll probably answer me that I'm not sorry, that the reorganisation has been stalled and that your government won't allow it to look like a mistake. He will have us at his side in defending the proximity and immediate assistance of the victims, but he is asked not only to leave the defence of the proximity in favour of the victims in the hands of the Department of Justice. Here you see it and make it feel before all the women... At the same time, we have the specific formation in the Department of Justice, which is mandatory, because it is not now, and which is believed to occupy a place of work. We need tools to get rid of male violence. We need to know how to identify the problems that prevent us from advancing in the eradication of the different forms of gender-based violence. The essential thing is that Parliament, as the highest expression of citizens and citizens, responds today to the cry of victims, their families and all women. We allocate more resources to deploy the fifty-three articles in force in Law 17/2015 and we work because there is no detail or partyism on this occasion. Our struggle and struggle of all is now and always masculinism. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.3.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.4.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, President and Executive Director of the Catalan Institute of Donations, who accompany us. Thank you very much for this question, Mrs Moreta. I think it is very timely to reaffirm, once more, what you very confidently gave to the beginning of your intervention. The struggle against male violence is a struggle from all over the country, on the sidelines of ideologies. And I believe that this Parliament has given and continues to give many good exhibitions of this issue, it does so with the resolutions that have been adopted in the past general policy debate, it does so on the occasion of the International Day against Male Violence, and it does so, whenever possible, in a debate such as you have proposed today, which is more than halfway and far-reaching, but with decisions that we must take urgently, but taking into account and appreciating the work done. I am not speaking only from the government's side, but obviously also from the administration side and also from the entities working in the realm of women. Because we are talking about violence against women because of being women, which is manifested in many and various ways, many times intertwined, when we are talking about physical violence, sexual violence, psychological, economic violence, and that we are still feeling, and we have to recognize this, a very serious problem of our society. You refer to the day that was organized a few days ago and that we know that it was successful, from the point of view of your attendance, but above all, of the quality of the questions and the messages that could be discussed. There is still a lot of concern, too, about how we know you have been selling, precisely, 25 November, an international day, which the European Commission was providing in a survey of thirty thousand people last June, when we find that one of three European women over fifteen years of age has suffered some kind of male, sexual or physical violence; that one of every three has suffered psychological abuse on the part of her partner, or that one of every twenty has been raped. They are not only worrying, but very serious, intolerable for any democratic society, and indeed, in Catalonia, regardless of ideology, but certainly thinking of the State that we all want, a free state of male violence, we need to renew our commitment and our efforts so that this is the way it is. You've made reference to very diverse issues, I'd like to go to all of them. I believe that a very essential thing is to be able to count on the contributions of the same women, although this is not strictly a question of women, but we do have to listen very much to the message that the women survive, as they themselves call them, to us. And, in this sense, you have made reference to the day that was organized by the Catalan Institute of Donations. We also held here an excellent act, organized for the same Parliament – and, President Forcadell, congratulations for the act – we were able to feel at first hand this message of the surviving women of male violence. You have made reference to the laws, which are, indeed, very powerful with which we count in order to be able to endure and to achieve this challenge, the Law of effective equality of women and men, which provides us with elements to eradicate everything that separates us from equity between men and women in the different orders of life; but, above all – Law 5/2008, of the right of women to eradicate male violence, which, as you know perfectly well, is a bet to create and strengthen a public network of resources and services and to provide rights to women who suffer from any situation of male violence. I believe that this is an issue that we are addressing from the government of the Government in an absolutely inter-departmental and coordinated manner. You have referred to the Department of Interior – and I will also talk about it – all the work that we have done and the very important developments that we have also known last week to the Department of Justice – and I will mention it now –; the Department of Education; the Department of Treball, Social Affairs and Families, which counts, as you know, with specific units from the point of view of equality of opportunity, youth, families, etc., and, obviously, the Department of the Presidency, which, as you know, is precisely in compliment and development of the Law of Effective Equality, which approved this Parliament's previous legislature, therefore, has in its instruments the incorporation of the rule of law into the Parliament's internal system; the planning of such an impulsification, which has been approved by this Parliament by the previous legislative authority, and therefore by means of the administration of the institution, always by means of an integral rule of the government, by means of an impulsification. We are always willing to improve this coordination. But we have instruments – just like I can define standard instruments – for planning and coordination, which are also very powerful. In this sense, one, the Comprehensive Intervention Program against Masclist Violence. Last week in the Committee on Equal Opportunities we had a chance to explain what are those aspects that we want to improve on from a program that we understand has been valid and that has worked very well, and that so that what is close is not to make it beautiful new, or much less, from scratch, but to reinforce those aspects that we see that are especially sensitive and strategic. One, clearly, has to do with coeducation, actually. Not only with the prevention of male violence at school, which is already produced and we have important programs that are developed, but the development of co-education as a concept and program. Also the work with the communication media, very important. We also talked about the appearance of the president of the ICD..., and I myself..., as we have to continue working with the communication media in this sense to improve the representation of women, but also improving the updating, let's say, of the indicators on male violence that contain the different areas of intervention, creating this observer of equality and study center, of research and training on male violence and, and I go to one of the themes that you have touched, improving the access of women in a situation of male violence to the judicial system. On the jutjats Vido, you have made reference, I have no inconvenience to reiterate to it that in a very clear and explicit way the same councillor of Justicia, the councillor Carles Mundó, has already manifested, and also did, with the same strength, the president of the Catalan Institute of Women the past Tuesday in the yes of the commission. In this sense, I literally read the advisor's words: "We completely discard the conclusions of this study. So, it's a question that's locked. Violent justice over the woman will continue in all judicial parties, in the thirty-five judicial parties, as it has so far. Therefore, it is a question that has no means of viability, that these conclusions can be adopted, because we do not share them from the conjunction of the Government of the Generality. In this sense, near, specialization and keep all and every one of these justices. This does not mean that we are not absolutely willing to improve the training of the professionals of the jutjat group, and therefore to bet on the line that you had to improve this specialization. I am saying this because you must know that it has been a long time since a motion for a resolution, precisely from the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, in the sense of analysing..., from a final evaluation of the implementation of Law 1/2004 to the Catalan judicial sphere; also to be able to analyze the quantitative and qualitative information in judicial proceedings, the specialized training of lawyers in this matter, and all for such a long term the legislative reforms that are necessary to guarantee the compliment of the Istanbul Convention of 11 May 2011 on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence. In this sense, you know that we have offices to assist victims, technical and criminal advisory teams, units to evaluate the case, obviously everything you have to see with the free legal aid, but we understand that you can work together with the High Court of Justice, and that is why we fully agree with the hope and purpose of this motion for a resolution... to have a radiograph of the situation of the Catalan courts and to adopt all the proposals of the best that they can convince. In this sense, and also in the framework of the necessary coordination, you have not made reference but there is a resolution approved for this Parliament, for the Parliament of Catalonia, in the sense of pushing a table also around the struggle against male violence, a table composed of many agents, not only of the political sphere, but also social, academic, etc. I have to say that we welcome and congratulate this initiative, and we offer all our coordination from the government's side, precisely from one of the bodies that before it was about coordination like the Commission for a coordinated intervention against male violence, an organization that works very intensively, that gathers, its plenary, very wide, two times a year, every six months, but that works after commissions and working groups in a much more focused way, where the joint administration that works in the territory of our country is represented, but also the professional colleges and social and economic agents, and on, and by virtue of the law, in the development of the law, close to analysis of the planning instruments. I'm telling you this because this organ that will be created by the impulse of this parliamentary chamber can also assume a major element of coordination for what it does to the government's policies of approach...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.5.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.6.0	...of male violence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.7.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.8.0	Yes, I'm aware, Madam President, I'm sorry. I'll leave it here until the next turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.9.0	Thank you. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.10.0	Counsel, you have just stated that your group, Together for the Yes, has a motion for a resolution. I'll start by explaining something that I had more in front of me, and it's us, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, together with the Catalan Parliamentary Group Yes, it's Pot, the month of fever – the month of fever, huh? , February – to the Committee on Institutional Affairs we presented a motion for a resolution that was approved. It was approved and proposed exactly this: the eradication of male violence. And we called for the establishment of a table for social and political agreement to eradicate male violence. And, in concrete terms, the following text was approved, which I read: "Convoking in the term of one month– this was the month of February–"the first meeting of the Catalan political institutions and social, feminist, trade union and political organizations to constitute the table for social and political agreement to eradicate male-based violence, which must avoid social regression in line with the right of women to develop recommendations and measures against male-based violence, to follow public policies in this area and to issue public reports. Home, it's good that they put forward a motion for a resolution, but this one was presented the month of fever and they haven't done anything. That's the first point. The second point. I insist: I made him a proposal that you didn't even mention, because I guess he didn't see it necessary. A few days ago, I told him that the Central Government was making a great pact against male violence, and I proposed to him: "Conseller, step forward and make the great Catalan pact against male violence. It's a good idea, we'll all add up, and I'm sure he'll have us at his side, sure. The other thing I gave him: you're afraid of formation. Obviously, there are training fears among the curriculum, but they are insufficient, counselor. So, according to point: you're afraid of training for young people. Look, the psychology and sexology experts warn us that the lack of this basic education, that countries like Sweden is a reality from twenty years ago, leave young people under the sole influence of what they see around them and of pornography as to sexuality. That's what the psychology and sexology experts say. So, second question. First, the Catalan pact against male violence; second, training for young people, and, third, let us not let go of the theme of justice, despite the words that can be said. We can't allow it, and he said it and I agree, that it's not even a jutjat, huh? We'll be right next to you, on this. I would also like to say that you have mentioned a subject of communication. I think I need to create collaboration arrangements with communication media. Around 80 percent of young teenagers, and even all the teachers, say that television, press, or the Internet are the means they need to learn about the idea of whether or not male violence is. Therefore, this is a very – very – important issue. I think they have to lay down the batteries and work hard. But not just you. So are we. Between all of them. It's not just a criticism of the government, I'd just miss it. We all have to work for this. But we take good ideas and work, and what is approved we put it to practice. It's very important. Let's deploy it all to the law, as it used to be. And one last thing, to finish: the subject of assumptions. You, in the Equality Commission a week ago, said that the assumption of equality would be 8_per_cent; in 2012, it respected 2015, it had dropped a 22, and now it will be 8. We believe that it is still insufficient, and in this way we cannot put all the good proposals we want to put forward in this Parliament in order to eradicate the chakra against male violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.12.0	Thank you, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have the batteries in our possessions. And, indeed, this is a matter for all of us, but the Government of the Generality has a whole series of competitions in the fight against male violence. He spoke to her before absolutely cross-cutting and coordinated work. I think, in addition, that this coordination and this root impulse in the Department of Presidency is easier, let's just say, this better coordination. But the batteries are absolutely installed in a lot of senses. I'll give you some example. Speaking of communication media, you know that we have already presented a few months ago, I also explained to the committee last week, together with the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia, the detection and the subsequent and immediate denunciation of social media pages, on the Internet, in which the image of women is degraded or attempts against their physical or moral integrity, complaints that have already taken place and that have resulted in the withdrawal of some of these pages. We know that we are fighting in a land where this eradication is difficult, but we would not fail to agree with the saying, to collaborate, in this case with the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia, and asking and demanding also the maximum complicity in the conjunction of communication media, public and private, respect. It is a phone line of work of the Government of the Generalitat that I welcome that you give it this importance that, indeed, it deserves. You were talking to me about the premise. It's obvious that in the later years the conjunction – the conjunction, huh? – from the assumption of the Government of the Generality has suffered certain adjustments, but I can assure you that the one that has not been reduced at any time, not a single euro, are those parties that make reference to male violence that have a direct influence on this sacra. Indeed, in fact, the assumption previews for this year 2017, that all just yesterday approved in the Executive Board, previews, for what it does to the scope of the Catalan Institute of the Dones, an increase of 8_per_cent respect to the year 2015, until we have not dyed the assumption of the year 2016, but we have been before an extended assumption. But this incident, this one needs to strengthen all those parties that go to this struggle against male violence, or that have to do with the support of entities that work directly with the women affected..., have not diminished. And in this sense I speak not only of that part of the assumption that correspond to the Department of the Presidency, but also of the set of departments. I did not refer to his proposal for a pact, but not because he forgot me, but because he did not give me time in this first intervention, because he wanted to contextualize a little which are the aspects and which are the main lines of action from the public policies we develop as the government. Obviously, that's a good initiative, honourable Member. I was referring to it..., and I also did it on the committee last week, putting in value and thanking the set of resolutions that this Parliament approves, remain on the committee, remain on the plenary. I referred concretely to the general policy debate, which urges us, the Government, to continue working, to intensify, to reorientate – it is also its work, and it is very legitimate – those actions that we are developing. Everything that goes in the line of strengthening coordination, or that wants to add effort and initiative to this authentic country struggle, is welcome. What I wanted to tell you is that, on the margins of those organs, of those prisons, which can and must effectively develop this Parliament, as the Government continues to work with those instruments that are recognized and collected in the law, and that, moreover, I value the task they carry out. Why, actually, there's a similarity to what he does to the actors, huh? , of the joint table that you here, therefore, have approved and promoted, so that it is already part of the Interdepartmental Commission and the National Commission for an integral intervention against Masclist Violence. Therefore, welcome follow any initiative, and in that close to us as the government, therefore, willing to put us at the front or side of parliamentary groups in order to bring all this forward. I haven't had time... because finally, and to talk about a question like this, where there are so many lines of action, give and five minutes are very scarce. But, taking into account the presence, whenever we talk about these issues, of the Councillor of the Interior here in the Chamber, I want to highlight, therefore, the enormous coordination, the support and the joint work that we make the joint set of departments; I have previously made reference to all of them, but also from the Department of the Interior, and more specifically from the Cos of the Police of the Generality - Mossos d'Esquadra, and initials that, taking advantage of this digital society in which we are immersed, they have presented on behalf of the same Councillor, in this sense an app that will improve us – I am not very sure and very convinced – the attention and support to the victims of male violence. And, like these, many other initiatives, also from the education department, which makes a big pocket and will continue to make it, the Department of Justice, the Department of Work... And, obviously, prepared, honourable Member, to continue it - explaining it at any other time, because now I am running out of time. But thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Inquiries to the Government on Emergencies Systems]] [[300-00102/11]] The aim of the agenda is to ask the Government about the Emergencies Systems presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Lord Carles Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.14.0	Very good morning to everyone. Allow me to begin, President, by apologizing for this beginning, because I think it is a waste to remember that today is the 1st of December, International Day of the Fight against AIDS, and it is a sacre that we must also work together, all folds, to eradicate. We present today an inquiry into security systems. Specifically, we want to talk about 112 and the rest of the emergency numbers that coexist and relate to 112. As a matter of fact, let me explain to you that we currently have a different model than there is. We would understand 112 as an emergence manager, and now 112 is like an emergence trick manager. But, well, we don't intend to put it all together either; we believe that the system works reasonably well, and therefore, by responsibility, we will not propose a total change of model, even though we naturally have our opinion. We will make proposals thinking of issues that we believe are mismatches and that can be improved. Nor will we say that 112 works badly or that it doesn't, because it wouldn't be true. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is not 112 itself, this works well. Various ISO teas, guarantee of operation in cases of heavy accidents and catastrophes, attention in various idioms – many idioms –, mobile application to guarantee the use of Czech and deaf users, instruments of geolocation... The problem is not 112, the problem is 60.31 of the assumption for externalization of the service. The problem is living together with other emergence numbers and how they relate these other emergence numbers to 112. The problem is the government's subrogation to private enterprises such as energy; private enterprises have an interest, which is legitimate, in earning money, and we believe that this is one of the problems. What numbers are we talking about? So we're talking about 061 and we're talking about 092. 061, making a little history, there were a few moments, to the previous governments of the Generalitat, where it was tried to make 061 disappear and integrate into 112. It was finally decided not to meneallo. Why did you decide not to move the 061? Well, then, for a problem deciding who was running over who. There were problems between, let's say, Sanitary and Interior, to see who was on top of whom in an emergency situation; it's to say, for kings of taifes, in some way – I'm not talking about this government, I'm talking about previous governments. But right now 061, for example, it's promoting itself with functions like Sanitat Respon, which seems very good to us, but what we want to remember and bring to school is that 061, to be a phone to call in case of medical doubts, is also the phone of health emergency care, the phone that mobilizes health resources at a time of emergence, at a certain time. We believe that this causes severe misadjustment. First, it is no longer promoting 112 as the only number of emergences at European level; we therefore force citizens to remember more than one number, when it is 112 that is being promoted at European level. It is necessary to repeat twice the information when tricks to 112, and the CAPs, many CAPs of the sanity of this country what they advise to their professionals is that in case of truchin emergence to 061. It's logical, and we understand it perfectly, because, if not, if they trick 112, they have to repeat the information one time, 112 sends them to 061, and they have to repeat it one time. Another difficult misadjustment that is produced, in our view, is philosophy that respects the specialized and specific work of those who comply with the tricks of 061. The convenient collection of the call center applies – because we understand each other, the same one that applies to the Telephony and mobile phone – which is very worthy, but, of course, we do not believe that it will be refused to treat equally the people who are attending 061. By the way, before yesterday there was also a vacancy of ninety-thousand people who were born to ask for the proper collection of the call centre; all the gathering up of these people. But, I insist, that the appropriate call center collection be applied to people who have emergency situations, so it is produced that they do not recognize themselves or that they do emergency tasks or, therefore, the most corresponding to do these emergency tasks. They can't put the resume they've worked on on this very specific issue, which requires very concrete skills; they can't put it on the resume. That's right, when there's a spot in sight, like this one from the call center that gave them, two days ago, it does come up with a very quiet warning, a warning that you remember working on an emergence service. Therefore, they have the pain of one case and the pain of another. It's not a waste to treat workers with such a specific job and such responsibility... because, I insist, special skills and knowledge are lowered. Regarding 092, this story is completely different, in this case the analysis is different. It's the number of local cops. You trick, depending on where you are, 092, and you communicate with the local police. Sometimes there are misfits and you are in Tarragona and you can pose with the Urban Guard of Reus; neither is absolutely anything going on. Now, we understand that the assemblies have preventions and doubts to go to 012, that is to say, because 092 disappears, because there is – or at least the municipal world, which I know, ignores them – clear and transparent criteria for assigning requirements to local police. I mean, the local cops don't know, if they go to 112, what fears are being passed on to the local cops. In this situation no one, logically, wants to risk losing the direct number of contact with his local police; it is also very logical. I'll explain a little bit the case of Tarragona. We, in Tarragona, at the time, wanted to bet on 112, and we were even willing to disappear 092. We didn't do it because at point-by-point points of derivation to 112, it's to say, at times, days that we agreed, because the local police had specific job tips, so 112 was what was coming from the Urban Guard of Tarragona and there were care questions, only care questions; so let's understand, the drunkard that fell on the street or the bumper without any problem that can be produced – care questions. We asked for the protocol that was coming, which is ugly to decide which tricks were coming to the local police, which to Mossos d'Esquadra; Mr. Felipe Puig, Mr. Swordler, both of them compromised to get us to the protocol, and this protocol never came to us. Clearly, before that, you have two possibilities. The conclusion may be: u, or it is not intended to teach, or two, there is no such protocol of derivation of tricks to the local police. I personally think it's more likely than not to be taught. And it seems difficult to me this obscurantism, because, I insist, this would surely help the assemblies decide to withdraw or to withdraw..., it was easier to withdraw 092, for the benefit of 112. Just because you have a given, in Madrid, for example, this derivative protocol, which also exists, is published on the web page. We, I insist, have asked him at length of history many times, even some councillors have committed themselves, in local meetings of security of Tarragona, to donate to us - he, and never gave himself. So, we want to make a series of concrete proposals that we think can help improve this situation and focus on 112... as the only phone in Europe, and focus all the grocery tricks. We ask them, Lords of the Government, that they solve this multitude of numbers of emergence that there is; that we actually bet to unify them into a sun, that the citizenry only needs to remember a number, that it is much simpler, and, moreover, that we have done it by closing the circle around 112, that I have already told them that it is a good reference even for the citizenry– by the way, it also directs a tarragoni, that this something, therefore, also sure that it brings. We believe, I told you at the beginning, that you would have been better off choosing, under our point of view, the 112 model as the Emergence Manager, but let us help and work together to make the best 112 possible as the ploy manager. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.15.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by Mr. Jordi Jané, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.16.0	Madam President, Councillor of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I thank this question, because it allows, in your parliamentary office, to debate the telephones that are around the emergencies, and it also allows, Mr Castillo, perhaps in the later motion, to agree within the Parliament of Catalonia what measures you are, I believe that with the best of intentions, I was pointing out, of aspects that can be addressed to a better part of the service. Therefore, all that can really help improve the service will be welcomed by the Government. There is some conceptual aspect that you have pointed out and that would not have the need for acceptance, I believe, on the part of the various things that have the emergencies. We're talking about the Mossos d'Esquadra, we're talking about the bombers, we're talking about the local police, we're talking about the rural agents as well, about other forces and security bodies, but, overall, one thing is that I'm calling to direct it to that thing that really has to take it with priority, and sometimes different things at the time, and the other, that 112 is the one who manages the emergence. That system, believe me, Mr. Castle, wouldn't work. 112_must be this phone – and I agree with you – that you centralize the emergence tricks, and we have to go this way, that people make it very clear that when they have an emergence they have to call 112, and 112, when they have the call, they have to redirect it immediately – immediately – to the various things they have to act; but they don't have to manage the emergence. It has to manage the call with the highest celerity, quality and effectiveness and with the maximum accessibility of those people, therefore, who for some reason have difficulties; therefore, expand the number of languages in which people are held, give the facilities that are being given to deaf people or university students who come and are given a specific application, or facilitate in the points of the natural parks, mountain areas where there is little coverage, facilitate those points where there is coverage to indicate that from there there can be tricks... All this goes in the right line, but try, as I thought you were ugly, to say: "No, no; it does not have to be managed by tricks, but it has to be managed by the emergence, no. If it's an emergence because there's a gihadist threat, it's got to manage the Squad Ways, and the threat is going to get to it as soon as possible from the trick that's headed to 112; but it doesn't have to be 112 that led the emergence, because it believes it wouldn't work and we wouldn't give the right answer. Also, Mr. Castillo, the fact that you, in some way, criticizes the outsourcing of the service, the subrogation, which you say, to private companies... This is a model in which this full outsourcing was done when President Montilla was President of the Generality, and it is a model that has followed with the various governments and advisers of various political parties, and they have all opted for this outsourcing, but with the highest quality and through a competition that is demanding as regards the staff that the service has to provide, guaranteeing it training, guaranteeing it a quality and guaranteeing it a level. But this externalisation is an externalisation that is given not in this legislature, which sees, and repeats, full externalisation, because first it was not so and increased the percentage, and it is produced, precisely, therefore, with a government presided over by President Montilla. Therefore, I do not understand that it is now necessary to discuss this aspect. Yes, I agree that the workers of the companies that have won the contest and that finally lend this public service must do so with the highest quality and must be – and are already – above the terms of the call center agreements. They are, they have more specifications, and I would be willing to recognize this quality that they must have and, therefore, this must obviously be accompanied by specific remuneration. But it is also a reality that, at this moment, 112 is the king of this agreement; it is not a subject of the 112 of Catalonia, it is a global subject of the professional sector to which they relate. And also a point of coincidence with what you were pointing at, and I think it's going in the right direction, and I think we've got a lot of way ahead of us all: helping everyone see that when we have an emergency where it's always 112. And this information, which obviously we want to deepen to reaffirm before society, is appropriate, because if it is not called 112 and it is called to other numbers when there is an emergence we find that the response is delayed by that specific thing that must follow that emergence. Therefore, it is very important, Mr. Castillo, that among all of you, and you have done so, we try to reaffirm 112 as the phone to call when we have an emergency. Other existing telephones are information, not emergency management, information, necessary. And, in this sense, I also think it's important, 112 – your director general, Mr.Fede Adan, accompany us here – 112 even operational tricks and tricks that are not operational. The operatives are those tricks that go up to 112 and that are directly linked to an emergence, and the non-operational ones are those that cheat by mistake at 112 or that in the background are not tricks that should go to 112 because they are not for an emergence. So, well, the total of tricks I answer to 112 – the global – is less this year than it was last year. And someone could say, "Well, it's a minor trick to 112. So, if we look at the rebuffed tricks at last, there's a significant increase in operational tricks, practically a 7_per_cent more in the name of operational tricks of those that have to be covered by 112, of those that actually have an emergence. And on the other hand, there's a 13-percent decrease in non-operational tricks. That's a good sign, which means we're going in the right direction, which means that every time people have the presence that when they trick 112, it's for an operational trick because there's an emergence, not for information, and to activate how better you respond. And, obviously, even though there are fewer tricks the time required for people working there now is higher than it was a year ago, because the operational tricks, those that are actually to be directed to 112, require in their response a time of major attention, because they have to activate, they have to comply. The non-operational call is now over; the operational call is the one that requires, therefore, the activation of various police units, of bombers and, therefore, requires on the part of the operator a major effort. And here even with the new competition the cost is higher, because it will have to increase these hours of attention in the sense that it takes more time and, therefore, it will also require more hours of attention on the part of the operators, that it does not have to emphasize that it is a twenty-four hours phone operated, as it cannot otherwise be, and that it is a phone, moreover, that always works and that it always has to be at the very best empathy, with the maximum efficiency and with the maximum ability to coordinate in a few moments from where it is to be warned that it will arrive as before. Therefore, I thank you, Mr. Castillo, for this inquiry and there..., we are in an area of absolute transparency and, as we are in an area of absolute transparency, we cannot have a protocol for the derivation of tricks to the local police and that you, as a Member of Parliament, who have all the right, cannot have. I, of course, have never asked for this transparency, which cannot be otherwise, so I am already offering it, so let us ask for this protocol; I don't know which features you have, but here is also the secretary general of the department, who has all the petitions of parliamentary groups, and I am sure that we can give it all kinds of detail and you can see exactly how it works. Also to say – and with this end, Madam President – that with the issue of local police, of the specific telephone for local police, some municipal app is being introduced for assemblies that do not help to concentrate on 112 the emergency call, because it is an app that first directs the call to the local police when, for the stop of the call, it might have to be directly attached to 112 and turn it to moves, to firemen or possibly, also, to the local police. So, these...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.17.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.18.0	I'm done, Madam President –... these new applications need to be studied a lot so as not to diversify attention in emergencies. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.19.0	There's the word Lord Castle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.20.0	Thank you, President. Very briefly, quite briefly. Counselor, in ours you will have in this matter – and in general, with the Interior, I have already told the principle – always a loyal debate, and what we can agree on, so we will do it. And as much as we see criticism, so will we, you know. To see, I said... An acclaim, I said: "The 112 does not have to manage the emergence. No, no, I told him..., he was just pointing to the philosophy that we socialists respect about this, philosophy that we somehow gave up, we understand that it is not the time to change a system that reasonably works. So now we won't be able to get it all together, no, no; we already accept the system that has been chosen, effectively, also in tripartite governments, etc., even though I don't feel connected, because politics also evolves, and I'm personally against outsourcing this, but, finally, I think we all agree to seek the highest quality in the 112 trick management system. The one who was also pointing to him from the trick-derived protocol, no, I didn't ask him how the congressman explained it... at the governor's stage. The truth is that as a Member I did not do it, well, not to stress, let's say it. First I wanted to know if the protocol really doesn't exist, if it doesn't want to donate, it doesn't want to teach..., a little see what was going on. But I think that we agree with the line to follow, which I do ask is that it's a little too much to aggregate 061 and 092. I know he has his problems and his risks, and he's a little trippy, let's just say, someone won't be happy with it, but I think it's a waste and it's absolutely logical to join in a _sol and exclude the number of emergencies. You used to say that, too, didn't you? It's not logical for citizens to remember 061, 092, listen to me: 1, 1, 2 or 112, and point. And I think we all have to work decisively in this direction, and here he will always find us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.21.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.22.0	Madam President... Mr. Castillo, as I see the emergence tricks in a future, I think we will come to very broad agreements, because, effectively, the diversification of telephones does not always help the message that we want to empower, that is, the emergences, the real situations that require, as a matter of urgency, a trick, vagina at 112. In fact... – and you remembered this in a very uncertain way at the beginning – in fact, this is what European legislation also imposes on us, despite the fact that European legislation does not prohibit there from being any other telephones, but it does say that any person in the European Union is the country where you are, calling 112 will return the necessary attention if you have an emergence. And that made us all. That is why the law of 112 was approved in this Parliament unanimously. He forced us to structure a service because, in addition, Catalonia, which is a host country of millions of people who visit us every year, must have this security that by calling 112 back the necessary attention. And that's why – and I want to put a lot in value – at this point, 112 are in five languages, and starting in 2017, in the first quarter of 2017, we will extend it to twenty-nine more languages. Why? To give, altogether, this answer needed with an objective: when someone calls to 112, if the call is well directed, it has an emergence. It means that, surely, he suffers, that he is in a critical situation. And when a person is in a critical situation, you're thankful that you have someone on the other side of the line who understands you in your language. This five-to-twenty-nine-language expansion helps this, which when the person is anxious he can fill in his idiom, therefore, this immediate response and can be explained. So, let's go on this line. Another very important line: you know that, also because of European demand, the October of the year that sees all 112 have to be adapted to something that is basic, that it is this eCall system that the cars will carry incorporated, as required the manufacturers hold it to the year 2018, and with this system, when a car has an incident, automatically, even though the person has become unconscious, cannot call instead, the car does the trick. And this eCall system also requires a specific operation from 112, and already the advances that this specific operation from 112 will tend to make this next year to fully integrate these tricks that are required when an emergence occurs. You also said: 'Mulli' as well as integration. Miri, if I am a man, you will have problems, Mr Castillo, surely, with important mayors that the Socialist Party has at these times in Catalonia. Sure, huh? Because here there are several mayors, telling them suddenly that 092 would disappear, that you couldn't call a number of their local cops because you have to call 112, sure that it could be a lot of operation, eliminate, from the start, many apps that are being created and that I think are not going in the right direction and that many joints are spending money to incorporate these security apps into your municipality, thinking that, from then on, that's going to go a lot faster, and what these apps can do is that they're going to be tricked into the local police, assuming they're not going to be that way. I agree that the 112- local police has to be very well-grieved because the local police actually get the call as before better. But making the bridge to 112 and getting it out of the local police isn't the best way out when there's an emergence and, therefore, we're going in the right direction, Mr. Castillo, if you say, "We should try to boost 112. I repeat, I don't know if this would be the proposal. At the level of Barcelona Assembly we are now making a dialect in the sense of trying to ensure that Barcelona Urban Guard, Barcelona Bombers also integrate into the 112 platform and is able, in some way, to facilitate even better the transfer of information when there is an emergence, in this case, to the capital of Catalonia. So, let's go in this direction and wait, Mr. Castillo, for your inquiry to serve us all as well to consent to a good young man who also tended to the best of the service. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about housing policies]] [[300-00103/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on housing policies presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.24.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Consellera Borràs, MPs, MPs.... last week we talked about the Bill to guarantee housing to people at risk of social exclusion, a desperate attempt to alleviate the most serious effects of the real estate bubble from which we are still trying to recover. With the LAU, the Urban Leases Act of 1964 initiated a hostile legislative path towards access to housing. In 1985, after the Boyer decree, rent prices rose by 80_per_cent. In 1994, a new version of the LAU put an end to indefinite contracts. Between 2000 and 2008, prices doubled in many areas as a result of housing legislation aimed at financing real estate credit, inevitably leading to inflation. We cannot forget that public administrations allowed totally uncontrolled growth; not only did they allow it, but they took advantage of it, and all the urban projects that were being carried out were approved. The Generalitat has hands above all urbanism through the Urbanism Commission, and could curb the uncontrolled growth of any municipality, and it did not. As he also said, public administrations not only allowed these uncontrolled growths, but also took advantage of, fed the real estate bubble from the administrations, filled their arches by selling public land through capital gains, creating a customer network and, why not say so? , also corruption. They were accomplices and co-responsible. And here everyone has participated: the municipalities, the Generalitat, the parties that had their people on the boards of directors of the savings banks. Last week... well, at the previous plenary session, he asked: "Did public housing policies serve to avoid the new bubble? No; they shined for their absence. If even Minister Solbes said: "The more indebted you are, the richer you are. And the little sheltered housing that was made was in speculative conditions and for sale. Have the necessary measures been taken to prevent a new bubble? No, because we follow – examples – with the same Housing Decree, the collection of property transfer tax is the same and there was no relevant affordable public housing policy. From 1 January 2014 until 30 June 2016, 29,583 mortgages were executed in Catalonia alone. That number is broken down families, expelled from their homes. We have, on the one hand, the lack of credit, and all those evictions, the ground clauses, which were rescued with public money to the banks, knowing how certain managers operated, the scandal of the preferents, all this, has generated such mistrust towards the financial sector that the citizen to whom they could grant credit is trying to interact with him as little as possible and has started to trust the rental market. Increasing demand and low supply push up prices; the rental price begins to present symptoms very similar to those experienced years ago with the bubble of buying housing; in large cities it does not stop increasing, especially in some areas. We are in a post-bubble; that is, we have not just come out of the real estate bubble of the construction and we are already threatened with a new bubble, this time that of the rental. And I'm gonna give you some data. In just two giving the average price of rents has been fired. In Barcelona in 2014 the average price of a rental was 688_euros and is currently in 764– these are data from the Idescat – ; in Badalona in 2014 it was 538 and is currently in 566; in Girona it has gone from 466 to 500; in Sabadell, from 488 to 527. Tarragona, Hospitalet, Granollers..., all rise. Rental prices are shooting. The wolf is already here, and no one sees it coming. We have a 2.0 bubble, and all because the necessary measures have not been put in place to prevent it from happening again, to continue with a non-existent public housing policy. Unemployment, the dual labour market and precariousness make many families so low in income that they cannot access the free market. The only option for these people would be to opt for housing whose price is proportional to their income, and this can only be guaranteed by the Administration. But we find that both in Catalonia and in the rest of Spain there is a need for a general policy that will bet on a public rental housing park and long-term housing policies. We will never have a public housing park to absorb demand if the Government does not put the batteries in. The truth is that there have been public initiatives, both of the Government of the Generalitat and of municipalities and deputies – such as the conversion of empty housing to social rent, agreements with financial institutions, sanctioning files – emergency measures to urgently alleviate the most bloody and dramatic cases, but they do not cease to be patches. It is necessary for all political forces to take this issue seriously and to agree, govern who governs, to increase the public housing park so that citizens do not see how their right to housing is again jeopardized. Even more. To solve the housing problem we need political consensus, both at the level of political parties and of different administrations, and the complicity of private actors – architects, engineers, builders, assessors, promoters, banks, insurers, geologists, industrial sectors... – ; if we do not all row in the same direction, the housing problem will become a scourge that will slow down development. The lack of institutional support for the rental market causes that, while in 2010 six_of_each_ten young people proposed to emancipate themselves, now only two_of_each_ten see it as a real option. The decline in the rate of Catalan youth emancipation between the ages of sixteen and twenty-nine is brutal. In 2015 it was the lowest of the last ten years. In 2007, with rising prices, the emancipation rate was at 32.9_per_cent; in 2015 it has fallen to 24.5. What steps will the Government take so that young people can emancipate themselves and start their life - plan? I suppose you're familiar with gentrification, a very fashionable term; they say that when the first cupcake shop comes up, your neighborhood has become gentrified. Gentrification is a process by which the usual population of a neighborhood is progressively displaced by another at a higher purchasing level or by tourism. In some areas of Catalonia, the tourist pressure is leading to the reduction of the rental market and raising prices. Some populist politicians have used it to criminalize the tourist, feeding the tourismophobia, as in the case of Mayor Colau, limiting the hotel spaces in Barcelona. That's not the solution. The only way to prevent this phenomenon is to create a public park of public housing in gentrified neighbourhoods and in populations whose prices increase by the demand of tourists, so that prices are controlled and the neighbours are not expelled. In the motion following this inquiry we will make you a proposal on how you can take advantage of this tourism to create a public housing park. The good thing about keeping citizens of all life in a gentrified neighborhood, together with the new ones with the greatest purchasing power, is that social mobility is favored. Living in a middle-class neighborhood with income diversity is one of the best ways to get a family out of poverty trap. Aggressive investments in public housing, whether by construction or by recovering empty housing, are commonplace in Europe. In Holland, Sweden, United Kingdom, Denmark, France, Finland, the social housing rental park around 20_per_cent, here we barely reach 2. The Administration's parks are channelled through mediation, the distribution of subsidies for rent payment, penalties..., but so the problem is not solved, it is only contained. For example, the Generalitat's support for the rental payment, which you declared the other day to be EUR 111_million. What happens when the government gives aid on the demand side, but it does not touch the supply side? That potential tenants have, on the one hand, more money to rent, and for the owners that means that there are more potential customers, since there are more people with money in the market; that is, more demand with more money: "Oysters, for we raise prices. Are you aware that the mortgage moratorium will soon be over and the evictions will return to the tip of the shovel? That people will be thrown out of their homes again? What will happen when this moratorium is over? What will happen in five years'time when the divestiture agreements that have been signed with the banks are completed? And in ten years? And in ten? Will we ever have a public housing park, a powerful park? Is this government going to bet on creating a public housing park beyond merely anecdotal? Because I remind you that your parliamentary group, Junts pel Si, voted against the measure we presented at the General Policy Plenary to prevent new housing bubbles and create a new public housing park with a long-term vision. In the motion of the next plenary they will have the opportunity to rethink their housing policies, because we are still in time. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.25.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Public Administration Advisor..., Governance, Public Administrations and Habitat – this has changed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.26.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Street MP, you've done us, you've started us with an analysis of how we're in this situation right now. I will not go in there, as I can imagine, from here there is a lot of literature; in some things we agree, in others, therefore, logically not. But it is obvious that in the past there have been things, that we may learn the lesson, and therefore, in this sense, that we do some different things. And it's obvious that the government is laying down policies for us. And I'd love it when you guys talk to me, if you don't mind what we're doing. You mention it as if we're not doing anything about housing, and that's not it. Because if one thing this government has made very clear and we have manifested it for the right and the reverse, it is that the right to housing is a question that is at the forefront of this government's will and that, moreover, it is an area in which we are very clear that the right to housing is a question of country and that is how we have demonstrated it in the different actions, in the different interventions that we have made. Therefore, we have two very clear objectives in the matter of housing that we place the maximum emphasis on. For a band, face a very important issue, which you were talking about, which is the issue of the emergence; in situations of denunciation, as you mentioned, that the government must logically be and must be loving. And here we have put a lot of attention. We have also put a lot of attention, because we can't afford it in any way that we have to resolve and we have to help all those families, all those people who, without being in an emergency situation, do need help, do need it, because they have difficulty accessing a habitation. And here the government also has to be to give answers to these people. Therefore, here we are acting in a clearer way, and in a clearer way we are putting more resources than ever in this matter, more resources than ever. I want to remind him that at these times in helping in the field of the logger will be this year 111_million euros, this is an increase of 50_per_cent respect the policies that is made five years ago. And, therefore, in this sense, it is not a sifter in case it may be lacking. Besides, you also know that it's not just in an area of economic resources, that we've put the most attention to it, but also with legislative resources, we could say. And, for example, remind him that we have, therefore, five laws that have recently been approved, and that one of them..., no, four, were brought to the Constitutional Court and suspicions; one of them the ILP, on 24/2015, a law that has unfortunately been suspected of us and we have of..., the Parliament of Catalonia know that they must just push a law that the Government has brought to this chamber and that, therefore, must give an answer to what was suspended by Law 24/2015. But remind him to you, that he is from Ciutadans, that his parliamentary group in Madrid made an agreement because, if you had, therefore, access directly to what was the scope of the Government, you would have the appeal drawn back on the court, in the scope of the Constitutional Court, on the Law 24/2015. Therefore, a good policy and that you have at hand perfectly is the pressure on the Spanish Government, the Government of the PP, which withdraws the appeal on the Law 24/2015. And here we would win, therefore, many tools, many elements to be able to solve. Believe me, this is a job that you can do from your parliamentary group, and you can do it in a very correct way. Therefore, resources and means; resources and means that we have, for example, in the field of the Ofideute; in the whole field, therefore, to avoid that there are denunciations, to broker and, therefore, to reach agreements. In this sense, know that this year we have helped about seven hundred people and we have..., and therefore this means resources: sixty five offices, two hundred people working there. What else is there? So, listen to me, the line of urgent help to pay the logger. What's that supposed to mean? That we pay in one way, in a single way, the deficit that these families have, we help them get up to date. And from here there is help for a year to continue paying or the logger or its habitation, its mortgage, and, if necessary, this can be expanded. Therefore, here we have helped two thousand families to get out of sugar at the time of their debt. Who else have we done? So, in the order of denunciation with high residential risk, we act in a very clear way with the table of the Agency of Housing of Catalonia that when there are people who are denunciated or who can seek them a habitation, we have facilitated five hundred contracts. Look, that means more than three thousand families that we've found a solution because it's not without habitat. And that's not a small thing. That said, obviously, any denunciation is for itself hard enough to put all the emphasis on it, but, more than three thousand, concretely, 3,200 denunciations avoided this 2016, it seems to me that there is no need. What else are we doing? So, beyond the emergence, as I said, so, listen'm, 111_million euros to help pay the loguers to many families who, if not, would have great difficulties to do so. This means helping more than 50,000 family units, and so here's a very important pocket. But it's also done in other ways, as it is in the area of what is the construction of official promotions. You know that this is an issue that has remained, for the moment, parked ahead of the situation that we have, for one band, of lack of resources, but, for another, also, construction requires time, and, therefore, it is not such a fast way as others to acquire floors. And, in change, we, therefore, have acquired floors through the storm and retraction, and, therefore, floors at good cost, which have solved many areas of government. Who else have we used? So, listen'm, all that makes reference to the cessation of habitats by part of the funded entities: 3,660 habitats. And, therefore, here are important agreements that facilitate housing for us at a very affordable price for families and that, therefore, means, also, to improve many situations. You were talking to me about what the situation is, therefore, about the strictest area of the logger, and you told me that it was necessary to act in this area. I want to remind you of two things, one: we don't like the LAU. And that's what we've shown for the right and the reverse. And it is in this sense, and you know it because I have manifested it in this chamber, that we are bringing in a working group that from early September is working to give answers to what are needed in the field of the logger. This is a working group that we will conclude in the first quarter of 2017, and that will therefore make interesting contributions to see how this situation can be addressed. Because we are, and we know it perfectly well because we have manifested, the opinion that in this country it is necessary to reverse the culture in the matter of housing of what is the purchase for the lodger. And so, in this sense, here we have to make interesting policies very clear, too, who they are, at these times and today, the competitions of everything folded because according to what you do to us, you will recriminate it and tell us that we do not pose in policies that we can do. Therefore, in this sense, we, the highest ambition; working group to give answers to those who are in need and from here we will make the settlement that we want to give answers to people. But I think I need to be honest when things are said, and perhaps out of ignorance – maybe you don't have so many data as, so, logically, I do – to show you a few things. From the start, the European medium with which there are substandard floors – substandard floors – in the joint of Europe, the European medium, according to Eurostat, is 9.9_per_cent, huh? That's to situate us. And so it's obvious that we have a lot of work to do here, because we're still far away from this 9.9_per_cent. But this is the European medium, not the 15_per_cent that is sometimes said or other figures in concrete countries that you mentioned. From here, listen to me, the efforts the Generalitat has made to acquire new habitat, already through the storm and retreat, already through the cessation of habitats through agreements with banks, so also help us to do so in the last two years – in the last two years – we have managed to increase what are the habitats that have a reliable logger. Therefore, they are already the property of the Generality, they are already through the help that the Generality gives, they are already through the mediations, at these times we have more than a hundred_ thousand habitats in this regime. And, therefore, this means that we have increased this park of eligible habitats in the country's conjunction from 2_per_cent, two years ago, to 3.3_per_cent. Therefore, the policies that from the government are due to the end, both of the acquisition of habitats... – continue through the cessation, insistence, of the banking entities, continue through the tempteig and retract or continue through the direct aids in the logger –, they have managed that this country passes... – with some low figures, yes, sense dubte; that it must improve, yes, sense dubte; but that it has represented an important increase –, to move from 2_percent to 3,3_percent. This is a cipher that I think we can't afford. Thank you, Madam President, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.28.0	Thank you, Counselor. You have spoken about the European average; of course, the European average is the average of all countries. Of course, but we want to look, or we should want to look like those countries where the park is wide, not for example Portugal or Croatia, which are even below the average we have here. You have spoken about the laws appealed to the Constitutional Court, and you yourself have said, they are emergency patches – they are emergency patches – that have had to be put to a problem by contributing all those who ruled, all..., of those who were co-responsible, and those patches will serve no purpose unless the real problem, which is not cyclical, is addressed structural. And so much that you like to build structures build something that really benefits the citizen, not you. He has commented on the evictions they have avoided. They say that more than three thousand evictions have stopped this year, but the truth is that here, in Catalonia, there have been a thousand more evictions than in the Community of Madrid; twice the number has been twice. You..., this appeared this week in The Journal of Catalonia, which is institutional advertising, sponsored by the Agencia d'Habitatge; then, you have to resort to it to make it look like you're doing something right, right? The Government is trying to avoid more than 3,200 evictions in nine months. But the truth is that we are at the head of evictions in Spain. So, of course, since they don't have anyone to tell them that they do it right, because they don't deserve it, they have to pay for someone to do it. Institutional advertising should be used to inform [[applause]] to the citizen, but I see no link here – I see no link – no address, no phone, no explanation of how a citizen can access these aids. This is just auto-bomb advertising, which the only one serving you is, not the citizen. And if their intention was to meet the housing needs of citizens, they would have provided some useful contact or information. Otherwise, the cost of this announcement has not been amortized. And here the only ones who win are you. And please don't hide the real numbers. Mortgages in Catalonia double those in the Community of Madrid. Of a total of 11,940 mortgage executions in the second quarter of 2016, of all Spain, 1,999 were made in Catalonia, which represents 17_per_cent of the total. And in Madrid they have had half of evictions in this quarter than in Catalonia, 999, which represents only 8_per_cent. It's not to throw flowers and much less to throw the money paying for this. If you're talking about the floors handed over by the BBVA or the banks. They are the remains of the real estate bubble where no one wants them and no services. You said at last week's appearance that banks had to be held accountable. Yes, of course, but the government also has to do it and doesn't do it. And on the other hand, half of these floors are occupied, that is, the bank gives them occupied. And the Generalitat signs a contract in which it assumes management, and at the age of five it has to return them to the bank completely arranged and without the occupants. Well, that's some business! The truth is that your negotiating capacity will never cease to surprise me. I've found that... to be self-critical in your intervention. I was born in democracy and since I have used reason you are sitting in the government. Did you not take advantage of the real - estate bubble? Were they not co - responsible? Did they not have people on the board of directors of Catalan savings banks? Because they've been sitting there for over thirty years, they'll have some responsibility for it, won't they? The issue of budgets. They say this year they've put more resources into housing than ever before. Well, I remind you... I mean, you've budgeted 291_million_euros and I remind you that in 2012 302_millions were budgeted, and in 2011, 356. Finally, in Catalonia, with the competences we have, if we put the batteries, touching four keys one can move from a property policy to a rental policy; with fiscal measures touching the property transfer tax and documented legal acts, which would have to be complied with and not complied with; urbanistically, with another decree of habitability; with a serious housing plan by 2025, both of construction, of acquisition, and with rehabilitation measures. What does the Generalitat intend to do? Because a social housing park doesn't improvise. Will public spending on housing be placed at the average levels of European countries in our environment? Because we're still too low. Will they accept...? From what we have seen, the budgets are not going to be like this. So will they accept our amendments, so that this is the case? Are you looking for formulas for affordable rental housing in gentrified populations? Will they assume that urban planning and housing are part of the welfare state? If so, let us draw up a housing plan that avoids a new housing bubble, that avoids the emergence of pockets of poverty and economic segregation between rich and poor areas; in short, depressed areas that stifle social mobility. And if that's not the case, don't hesitate that we're going to continue to give up until the right to housing is a reality and not just a wet paper. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.29.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's got the word "counsel" on it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.30.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, you seem to have made two different questions. The first, with a good tone; the first, therefore, exposing his point of view. Second, with a point, and I'm just saying that, with a point of aggression, and more, missing the truth in many fears. From the start, I've done self-criticism. If you consider that we are far from what this country deserves, that obviously we need to do other things and I on this and other occasions have said that we need to change the policies of housing construction to sell, to make it happen, this is a reality that you don't want to listen to. But, for my part, here self-criticism and seeing that things can get better, logically, listen to me, this we have done. And if anyone, I don't doubt it, wants to emmirate themselves in the best, obviously, this is the Government of Catalonia, which we want to emmirate ourselves in the best, and this is our pretence. And so, you know, we are aware that we have a lot of work to do – a lot of work to do – which does not scare us and which we want to take with the utmost responsibility. But I would ask you, when you look at things, so, tell the truth or look good, because, from the start, the document that you were teaching me was precisely for that, to explain to people who are the procedures that are going to last, which is the email with which you are going to contact. And so, in this sense, yes, look 'hobe': it explains exactly what are the procedures that are going to take a long time, what is the email that a person should put in contact with, and therefore, from here, we make it easier that things are done for the right way, that it is our obsession, that they come to the housing offices, that they wander to the social services of the joints, because this is the way of obtaining housing, and this is the way that it goes. And when you were talking about "patch, referring to Law 24/2015, you may say it now because you find it uncomfortable that you will certainly not be able to reverse what is the appeal of the Constitutional Court, but for us it is not a piece, Law 24/2015, and we ask you to honor that which you signed before the PAH and before the other parliamentary groups, and that, therefore, we saw this Parliament freed us to make a law in measure because the Spanish Government has brought us to the Constitutional Court a law that served us, which gave us tools and, therefore, gave us the opportunity to respond to the needs of the citizens. You make comparisons, but I think it would be good for you to do the same in the order of things that you may not be interested in. You're talking about comparisons. So, look, let's do one: the Pla "Vienna of the Spanish State predicts that there will be 100,000 help in loguers for families that require it. So, you know what? This government, only the government of Catalonia, makes 60,000. So, if you want to go into the comparisons, go in there, but go into what we have honestly on the table, and that, so, in this sense, makes us see who are the policies that one and the other are due to term. This is an area that needs to be taken into account. And I would ask you not to deny – that you do not deny – the agreements that we have with the funded entities to increase, therefore, the public housing stock, that you do not deny what is the possibility that this government has – and that we have made it possible through a law of this Parliament – that it is the fact that it is able to do so and retract on the floors, and, therefore, to get good floors; that, thanks to the law that we also wanted to pull forward, we can have a tax on the empty habitats, which guarantees two things: one, to have some money, precisely, to be able to get habitats through the song and retract – that I remember that they are more than three hundred habitats that have been acquired through this system – and to have some money, precisely, to be able to get habitats through the song and retract – that are more than three hundred habitats that you have acquired through this system, and to finance it, one element, and to finance it. And that was the clear objective of this law. Therefore, listen'm, surely – surely – 111_millions to help families are insufficient. When the needs are many, the help is always insufficient, but to create a 30_per_cent respect the year before me it seems that there is no need and, therefore, if we are to make self-criticism, you do not doubt that you must appreciate something positive, and you would also have to feel it when you talk about who are the policies that, in terms of housing, are doing in this country, because there are many in doubt, in collaboration with the joints; do not neglect the work that is done by the joints. And from here, your proposal, which you presented in Parliament a few days ago and which announces to us that you will resubmit it to us, you know that you were talking about more than 1,000_million euros and that, therefore, this is an issue that is inexhaustible and, listen to me, if you want to live in the country of wonders, you will surely have to go to another band. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[He asked the Government about the international policy of the Catalan Republic]] [[300-00101/11]] The dotze point of the order of the day is: inquiry to the Government on the international policy of the Catalan Republic, presented for the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent. To expose her, Mr. Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.32.0	Thank you, President. Counselling, as in the past, as I am proposing to this inquiry, is moving towards my recognition, our recognition of the Council's trajectory, its trajectory in the matter of international policies, often shared in various forums, related to alterglobalism and the defence of the rights of the people, which we are convinced, we are convinced that, of course, they are shaping, they are already having a concrete influence on their government action, which obviously we celebrate and share. It also goes so far as to say that the will of this inquiry, beyond the debates or controversy that we may have, is above all that of building an expanded and common camp for which it does international relations, both at the present moment of the ends of autonomy as in the future – and hopefully next – of independence. As well as in favour, as in the preamble of this inquiry, we do not want to renounce, from this rostrum, to claim what has been our presence, the presence of our parliamentary group at the funerals of Fidel Castro, in Havana. And not only for ideological reasons, nor only for the recognition, therefore, that sense of doubt deserves us the values of the Cuban revolution, but also – and this has directly to see with our inquiry – to represent the Catalan process of independence, because our country is directly represented there and our objectives of national liberation, a word that so much resonance has in Cuba, therefore, is fully represented there. It is worth saying that we have not been alone; Mr. Gerry Adams, sense doubting a referendum today, not only in the struggle of nations without state for their independence, but in a peaceful, democratic way of resolving conflicts related to the rights of the people, there was also. He also wanted to be Mr. Arnaldo Otegi, but he couldn't get to Havana because the U.S. government prevented him from accessing it through U.S. space. And look, in direct relation also to the inquiry, as the goddess, I wanted to claim our presence in Havana not only for the affinities and solidarity that deserve from us the Cuban revolution, but also for the importance that this revolution has had in the struggles of decolonization in the same modern modern concept of national sovereignty; obviously, also in the anti-imperialist struggles and, in general, in the defense of the right collectivities of peoples, which has given Cuba a very important role in the system of United Nations. Currently, Cuba is a nation, it is a country that has a significant influence on the international system of United Nations and that leads a very large group, which is the « non-aligned group, which is a group that today still has personality and has real existence in the United Nations system. To this end, I would like to make it clear that, for example, my experience, our experience in the United Nations camp, at a given moment, when we went to defend the recognition of the Universal Declaration of Linguistic Rights, or of the Universal Declaration of Rights of the Peoples, we counted, for example, with the explicit support of Cuba, as also of Bolivia, as of Mexico, etc., and – not paradoxically – we counted with opposition, therefore, on states such as Spanish, as French, as of Greece, as of Turkey, as of Israel, etc. Cuba was at the forefront of the solidarity and support that we have received from the United Nations system to try to make these projects prosperous. Well, concretely, already entering into the matter, first and foremost, of the inquiry, the Catalan process of independence we understand that it demands, effectively, a foreign policy that projects our struggle and our objectives of self-determination at international level, at world level, all obtaining the maximum possible international support. And it is from here that we understand international politics or international diplomacy from the criteria of pragmatism and realism, as it cannot be in any other way. But, at times, it also represents an opportunity for us to build a new diploma, a new concept, a new practice of international relations, that is, we also want to claim and claim from here the criteria of utopia, huh? , the criteria of innovation, of renewal, of looking at the world, of looking beyond, on the basis of becoming a nation that can be a reference for what makes the defense of the rights collectius of the people, a new country, a new state that is a reference to this level, at international level. A country and a notion that is a referent in the defense of the sovereignty of the peoples before imperialisms, colonialisms and processes of globalization, which severely limit national sovereignty: food sovereignty, its sovereignty at the level of things as elementary as labor relations, such as TTIP, CETA, etc. A new nation, a new country that can work very actively for the necessary and indispensable democratization of the United Nations system. A country that actively works for the defence of the right to self-determination of nations without the state of Europe and the construction of a new Europe of peoples before the current decade of the European Union and its national states. A country that is a referent, an example and an act for which it does the peaceful and democratic resolution of conflicts related to the violation of the rights of the people by the states. A country, a new nation, the Catalan, which defends in the international order a reformulation of this order based on the rights of the peoples, the sustainability of the planet, equality, justice and pau among peoples, respect for the sovereignty of nations and the human and social development of all peoples in their diversity. In this sense, we want to move forward in an agreement as wide as possible in this Parliament, and also with the Government and with the advice that you represent, in the sense of calling for a more pluralistic foreign policy, which allows us to win more and new alliances, which is not just about realpolitik, the pragmatism of a diploma based on relations with the states, with the states currently constituted and with the international institutions that represent them, but rather more so, and this can be done by the Government; and this can be reinforced by the Government with close collaboration with non-governmental organisations, with the Catalan civil society, which has an advanced and innovative tradition in this sense. In short, to demand a foreign policy that makes reference to us in a new diplomacy, that is focused on the construction of a more democratic international order and on the explicit recognition and support of the exercise of the right to self-determination of all the peoples that are now not able to exercise because of the oppression of the national states that are now constituted. We will also propose to you, in the course of the motion that we pretend to follow this inquiry, that our country, which the Generality can actively take over and lead the promotion of an international observer of the rights of the people, through whom we can play a leading role, a leading role at the international level in the recognition of these rights and in the practices of peaceful and democratic resolution of the conflicts that are related to them. In short, counselor, what we are asking, without renouncing the realism that has often imposed international politics on the construction of a process of independence, that our country, to make great, thinks great and, therefore, has the joy and courage to play a paper forward; a paper forward that allows us to be an active agent, to be a new country active, precisely, and reference in the resolution of this type of conflict and in the creation of a new culture recognising the rights and diversity, of the rights of peoples, of self-determination, of the justice of the planet. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.33.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. Reply by Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.34.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Many thanks, honourable Member, not only for your words, but also for your proposals, above all. And, from this perspective, to appreciate the opportunity that we hope to be able to discuss in position in this chamber about which country we want, which, in short, is what I think always touches from a logical, parliamentary, intercanvial perspective or, in any case, even not only intercanvial, but also collective construction of which is a project in this sense as well. And the international area is one of the absolutely determining dimensions in this question and I do, in a way, my many of the reflections that you have made, from the very nature of the intention that this department has to build an actor; an actor who at these times has a legal form of non-state, but who has a clear vocation to be a state and, therefore, to act, to interact in an interdependent _mark. You've made a couple of things that I want to enjoy too. He was talking about utopia, in this sense I always seem to remember Galeano's famous quote, citing Fernando Birri – it is attributed to him, but everyone knows that, in reality, what Galeano does is to quote a film director, Fernando Birri – when he explains the sense of utopia, that it is precisely that objective to which he can walk, to which he is never up, but that he allows you to advance. I believe that, indeed, when a country has a vocation to build international relations based on the construction of the pau, solidarity, the benestar collectiu, it must think of these terms and, therefore, make my own reflections. The second reflection that I also make my own of what you said in your initial intervention is the concept of the nine diplomas. We still have an absolutely archaic perception of what diplomacy means and reduce it to an institutional role that states have to make with states. And today, in an absolutely interdependent world, this is absolutely overtaken; it has no sense to focus the diploma exclusively on a glue of ambassadors and consols who have gone through the world to find, to gather and to make, in short, summits that, in the end, many times redrawing a reality that has nothing to do with what actually affects thousands, millions of people in the world. Today there are multiple diplomas in which we must put all the emphasis: diplomas of cultural character, diplomas of sport character, if you like, diplomas of solidarity character, and here I believe that, as a country that wants to become a state and that wants to have the tools to do this international job with all the guarantees, we have a magnificent space to invent, reinvent, to design a model of diplomacy, obviously, at the height of the needs of the 21st century, that they are not the ones of the 19th century and that, therefore, in the measure that we have to build, and that is what we are working on, a diploma to deal with a number of challenges that we are respecting in what we had done in the past. And this is where I think we have an opportunity like the country, like Catalonia, absolutely unique. All countries have an international brand, from the point of view of which is the added value they want to provide. In Catalonia we have an action, a structure of state, a structure of state that exists, that is an organized civil society that many years ago, in all spheres– of cooperation, solidarity, mediation in conflicts, disarmament, the construction of pau–, which shows that, despite not being a state, it does absolutely innovative policies, builders and needs in the challenges we have today. And this is an element that we need to see as an opportunity. When we think about what is the role that a state like Catalonia can play in the world, or a republic like which we want Catalonia to be, before the world, we also have to take into account the same gene and genetics as the construction of this country. And this genetics leads us to think of all those movements that have historically been in favour of the construction, obviously, of complex linguistic realities, but which exist and which we must face with total normality; of realities of diverse origins, which we face with total normality, and of realities of diverse ideologies, which we face with total normality. Catalonia has, from the point of view of its civic and civic mobilization, I believe, an indisputable position. And we've seen it these days with a project, I think, absolutely meaningful, as ‘Our house is your home, speaking of the citizen's will – not institutional, citizen's – to gather refugees, something that institutions are not doing, as they ask them to do, and that, in turn, at the level of the citizen we see that it's an example that you don't just put in value and recognize, but only to empower everything. This is, I believe, one of the fundamental aspects that they mark, that they must mark and that will make sense the international dimension of this country at the moment constitute in what we find ourselves in. But more than that, there are some elements that I think we can also explain – and at least it's the will we have when we go to the world too – that Catalonia can bring. And many times it is criticized or said or it is meant to say things that are certainly not in the sense that when we go to the world we only go to talk about what we want. It's exactly the opposite: what we explain when we go out is what we can offer. We explain not only why we want to be a state, why we want to have the structures of a state..., but also why we want to contribute to tackling and solving the great problems that today affect the globality of the planet, and, therefore, the millions of people that the people, viscous of viscous, are born where they were born. And from this perspective Catalonia has a clear vocation to be in those forums, in those spaces where these things are discussed. Some of these forums are state-owned, and therefore, if you are not a state, you are not present; therefore, you need to keep the condition of state. Other forums are not state-owned, and therefore we are; we are recognized. In some places I think we have a lot of potential. Conflict management, from the point of view of analysis, research, investigation, monitoring, is one of the areas in which both at the level of entities and at the level of search centers Catalonia has a clear experience, an expert we are putting in value, that obviously many of these activities have a discretionary and discreet character – two complementary terms – because obviously it is not possible to do everything in life, but many of the things that are fan and that have to be done discreetly. These days we are seeing how the situation in Colombia, for example, is evolving. This is not by chance; it happens, among other things, because many actors at the international level have involved themselves, many of whom are also from Catalonia, at all levels – at all levels. This is an aspect that, at the level of research centres, at the level of organisations, at the level of Catalan entities, I think we need to put into value and it will be and it will be, in any case, the foundation of this new foreign policy. There is a second field in which I think it is especially uplifting the role that Catalonia has, and you have pointed out it absolutely, that it is how to deal with the situation of those nations without state, and more yet, how to advance as far as the condition of a state is not a state, and in what way we can face this debate as we are facing it in the Catalan mark, which is democratic, which is exemplary democracy. Obviously, at the length of history, the construction of states has been very diverse, many of them dramatic. We want to do something different, we want to set a precedent, a dubte meaning – a dubte meaning – and this can be an experience that serves as a laboratory for situations in the world that are in similar dilemmas to which we can find ourselves, a dubte sense. It does not mean that we pretend to be the solution to all the problems of the world of these dimensions; we know that this will not happen, but if we can act in the way that we are doing things as a referent about how these processes can be done peacefully, in a negotiated way, in a dialogue, but above all in a democratic way, it seems to me that we have to be able to put it in value and that is what I believe must mark, in short, the will not only of the Catalan society in its conjunction, but in particular of the institutions. The third element that seems to me to be particularly relevant. We cannot forget that Catalonia is a country that is absolutely challenged by the emergencies that are occurring from the world. And here we have to be very aware of two things. The first is to make a policy that remains consistent with the objectives of responding to emergencies. I mean, we can't just be stuck with emergencies without facing the causes, these emergencies. Therefore, a coherence of policies is key; knowing why things happen and what degree of responsibility we have – as the country, as it is, as society – in these causes. And obviously this complemented – complemented, not substituted, complemented – with the answer to these causes. And what we are living in the Mediterranean seems to me to be a rather great example that must allow us to think holistically, globally, about this complexity. This is the will, this is the role that a republic like Catalan must play: to see what paper can bring to the world; not only can it extract from the world, which is what happens today in some states. We have a vocation, capacity and will, and above all determination, to be able to contribute to the construction of peace and respect for human rights where these are questionable. And, therefore, from this perspective I greatly appreciate the opportunity and I am convinced that in the processes and debates that we will continue, not just in this Parliament, but outside this Parliament, this process will be built in an absolutely plural and diverse way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.36.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor, for your response I share, which we fully share in the form and in the contents. I remember that it was the year 2009, at the World Social Forum in Belém, in Brazil – I think you were there – in which we actually managed to get the question of the right collectivities of the people acquired, after many years of labor, a total centrality in the framework of the altermundial movement and the World Social Forum. And it was at that moment that this question and the cause of the peoples for their self-determination entered, say, fully into the altermundialist agenda. I remember at that time a conversation with a friend and a referent, whom you also know, the Cândido Grzybowski, of Brazil, one of the historical leaders of the World Social Forum, who told us, in the context of a debate where there were also other actors of the International Council of the Forum : "Select, if you, as in the Catalan country, arrive at independence, therefore, as you can imagine for us is a word of satisfaction and joy, especially considering who they depend on, say, right? But you think that if it's about creating a new state in Europe, it'll be thanks to us, it'll have our sympathy and solidarity, but here's where it's going to end; it's like, we won't have much interest in the weekend, they'll understand that the world is very big, the world's problems are very big, Brazil is huge, right? And so he won't come to us, will he? from a more European state, huh? , so you can see it more clearly. Now, in change, if you take advantage, in the new international context of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century, so that the emergence of a new state between Europe is a revulsion, is a disruptive phenomenon, eh? , from the point of view of making a re-founding speech of Europe based on the Europe of peoples, on the Europe of nations, on the right collectivities of peoples, if you break disruptively into the system of United Nations establishing new international policies based on solidarity, democracy, poverty, respect for diversity, compromise with the sustainability of the planet, the right collectivities of the people, etc.; if you are an example, in this sense, of a new international diploma, we would celebrate with a huge illusion your access to independence, because you will be the engine of those projects that we at these times, of civil society and of the social movements of the World Social Forum, we are trying to demand. Therefore, following this reference and also a usual statement, therefore, of Mr Grzybowski, and it is that to make great one must think great, right? I think we need to give birth to this new country with real ambition and vision. I, in this sense, very quickly, also want to convey our concern, my concern, for which it may sometimes be a very restrictive look at the conception of the foreign policy of sovereignism, right? I mean, that's pragmatic for which Scotland, Flanders and Quebec are the only references, isn't it? That logic, according to which we want to be a new state of the international order, huh? I mean, what we want is for the national states currently constituted and the current international institutions to consider us, right? And so what we have to do is little sound and not question the current international order and not question these national states, right? Or, on the other hand, the search for alliances in our independence process based on the United States - Israel, say so, right? These policies concern us, because more than Realpolitik and realism in international diplomacy, they tank us, focus us on a very narrow _framework, from the point of view of international relationships and alliances, and very unpredictable results, and perhaps tolls and prices much higher to pay. Therefore, what we are proposing and what we are proposing is an example, is a question of this restrictive view and an example of the value and political approaches in international relations in which we agree, but sometimes this will bring us into conflict with these reference states and with these international reference institutions. And in this case we must act with courage, with joy, we must think great, not only in the short game, but in the paper that we want to acquire in the world that we want to start building, because it is the territory in which in the medium or long term we collect the fruits that we need and that suit us. Therefore, from this point of view, we must not be ashamed to recognize the struggles of the Kurdish people, the Palestinian people, the Sahrawi people, the other nations and peoples without the state of Europe who also struggle for their independence, the peoples of America, even though this contradicts the interests of Catalan companies, eh? , or European companies operating in those territories. It seems to me that this is the path that will allow the world to consider our independence to have been worth it. Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.37.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.38.0	Yeah. Many thanks again, Mr. Riera. Indeed, I believe that at these moments we must be very aware that the world is very broad, that there are many realities and that we must be absolutely, in fact, not only, let us say, humble, but at once, also, aware that we must be able to find spaces of dialogue with very different actors: some are part of the European Union, some are not; some are still in the European Union, others are laying, perhaps, coming out of it; some want to enter the European Union, many are not. And from this perspective the world is wide, it's global, it's diverse. And we, as a reality that wants to be a state, must be absolutely capable of having bridges with all those actors. I'd probably kill him anyway. No, it's not... I think that, obviously, there are concrete realities that from the point of view of a process that are living is similar to ours; the cases of Scotland, Quebec and Flanders are basically similar because from the point of view of being a non-state that wants to be a state follows a democratic process to get this tape. And here's a procedural coincidence. And from this point of view, I understand that there are some coincidences, but, as we always explain, and, in fact, as they always explain, each case is completely different, each reality is completely unique. And obviously neither the Scottish reality has to see Catalonia in its totality..., among other things because Scotland is in a _marc of relations with a state, which is the United Kingdom, which, obviously, does not have anything to do with the Spanish State, and everything that it means to move forward in one case and in the other direction is conditioned by these circumstances, each of them. Therefore, from this perspective, it is obvious that, finally, I think we must find the singularity of each case and at the same time see the opportunities that the fact of being able to coincide with other realities means. That said, we must also be very aware of what we mean as a reality on the planet: we are a country of 7 million inhabitants, with a GDP of 200,000 million euros, and, therefore, that means what you want to say. Who are the values that can bring to the world? All those we've explained before. What way do we have to build it? With dial. With who? With everyone. And from this perspective I think we actually have many opportunities. We are also aware that the moment we are living today, for example, is not just the United Nations as the system, but also the European Union as the structure, from an economic moment, which is not political, is in reposition. We also need to see this not as a problem, but as an opportunity. And, in fact, without a mind, let's just say, with modesty, without a mind of anchovies. I put it in full force. What we are doing in Catalonia can also help to rethink, reinvent, rebuild this European project. When we spoke of the European Union in terms of the union of peoples, it was still an understanding, it was never the union of peoples, it was the union of states and, above all, of certain economic actors. This is the pure reality we have to face. What can we face? Home, a paradigm shift. And this paradigm shift, from the point of view of the speech, seems to me that it's good that it's produced. Because precisely today in the European Union there are other forces that go in the strictly contrary sense of everything that we have been talking about this morning and I today, in the radically contrary sense: to close down, to build walls, to build borders, to divide societies in terms of ideology, origin, language, race... That's exactly the opposite of what we want to do. It's that the story of Catalonia is in the opposite direction, it's that precisely what we can do, what we're doing or how we're doing it, is acting contrary to these forces that are now propagating in the march of a European construction, I believe, at these times, very questioned. The same goes with the United Nations system. The United Nations system was born in a post-World War II context and left structures and correlations of determined forces. That's all been changing. You have mentioned some countries that have the same number of votes that have other countries that also have a lot of relevance. Therefore, the alliances we have to find there, obviously, if we can match from the perspective of the objectives. We're not tanking anything. And complementing – and with this I finish – the quote that you said, "To make a great deal of thought, I complement it with what Riordan said to us: "If you want to be a state, act like a state. That's what we need to do, that's what we need to think, that's what we need to build, and, obviously, we need to find alliances where or where we want to provide them, or where we need to build them. The will is there, the potential is there, and the democratic determination is there. So I think we have no choice but to keep looking forward and thinking globally, because today's problems can only be solved if we have this universal perspective. If we're stuck in our own, let's say, small, from the point of view of the state and even the continent, I think we're wrong and we're wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.39.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the electric car]] [[300-00105/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the electric car presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for the Yes. To expose her, has the word Mr. Joan Ramon Casals.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.40.0	All right, President. Councillor, Members, Members, the title of the inquiry is 'on the electric vehicle, but in reality it is to ask the Government about a new energy model that is more sustainable, more democratic, fairer, and especially for the better in the health and environment of our country and its people. Because for the reduction of suspended particulate emissions, the electric car is key. In this line, the Catalonian Parliament and the Government have for some time been pushing for very important measures, such as the Climate Change Act and the National Energy Transition Pact, where they are doing a lot of good both their department, counselor, as well as from the advice of Mr. Josep Rull, or also people who are here today, as Mrs. Assumpta Ferran, from Icaen. From this future strategy of a new energy model and this fight against climate change, the electric car can help drive and democratize and catalyze the process. And I say that with a certain and private knowledge. As you know, I am mayor of Molins de Rei, of Baix Llobregat, one of the forty municipalities that we are in the special protection zone for atmospheric contamination, especially for suspended particles. It's an area where we have a lot of industrial polygons, factories of all kinds, cements that even serve waste for combustion, large metal·lurgical enterprises, complex chemicals... And as municipalities we have made a plan of improvement of the quality of the air. And the result is that, as many possible contaminant agents as we may have around us and which I named a while ago, actually the main atmospheric contaminant in my municipality and, therefore, in these forty special protection municipalities, it turns out that it is the car, the gasoline or diesel combustion engine. And it's not strange: around my region passes the A-2, the B-23, the national 340, the 1413, the AP-7..., and there could be a lot more infrastructure of this type. That's why, from Junts to Yes, from the region and the metropolitan area, we have a great obsession with two themes. One, which is also very important and which I also believe is that public transport, with measures such as the reduction of public transport, the elimination of tariff zones, the investments that do not come from the State to improve the rolling stock, the punctuality of trains, the buses-VAO trolleys... But I will complement this bet that we are making and that we need to do, and that we need to improve, for public transport, to reduce pollution and because there are no contaminants, is the key to the electric car. That's why today's inquiry. But, in addition, the electric car can mean many more things and can also be a catalyst in what is Catalonia's energy transition. Because it favors self-consumption and generation and accumulation of energy also, if you want, at home. Allows the integration of renewable energies into transport, both in public and private, and will also help the acceleration of intelligent energy networks. And, in addition, the electric car is also linked to the development of the new technologies. But, in addition, our country is still going further, because Catalonia, today, is one of the regions and engines in the manufacture of vehicles; even so it is predicting that the year is coming Catalonia by itself already making more cars than all Italy. The importance of this makes us even have a committee in Parliament dedicated precisely to the automotive industry. But precisely the electric vehicle will also involve a very important challenge and the key to our industry and the economic future of our country. Are you prepared with the country? I have the feeling that recent news, such as Tesla's installation in Catalonia, Mobile World Congress, smart cities, etc., seem to indicate that, in all this, we are prepared. But one thing we think is that we go balls, that it's the recreation, both the housewife and the public street. This is why we see with many good eyes the initiative of his consultancy, through the Icaen, through the Assumpta Ferran, the Pla stratègique for the deployment of charging infrastructures for the electric vehicle, known as PIrvEC, which we consider to be a great tool and is already beginning to give results. And I would especially like to hear from you today who are your main proposals, especially those that have to do with something that we believe is a serious problem, which is what we identify as taking and passing them or the lack of gains that the Spanish State is putting on. And that, all these changes that are trying to push from the PIrvEC, from its advice, are very important, because we need to be aware that when we introduced the car that we know today, of combustion, the changes that it meant for the society of that time and that still exist there were very important. But it wasn't easy to get there either, it didn't come from the night to the day, from the invention of the combustion engine that we have today, somehow. But, in addition, it generated a lot of changes, in fact, or, in any case, we had to adapt like society. I, like the mayor, I mean, at the very least, it affected the design of the municipalities, that's to say, affect. Either the same freedom, or the changes in social transformations that they generated, in a positive way, for the same families, at this point, more freedom. We understand that all these changes, that they came and that it was necessary to prepare the society for it to be so, but that in the end they gave some real transformation changes as a society to the better, will also involve the electric car. That's why we're worried, that's why we want Catalonia to be the best prepared country to take on these changes and that we're following actors and leaders absolutely of these changes. But, I repeat, we don't think we're making any progress. And I have the feeling that this slowness is above all due to the lack of gains from the Spanish State. I even have the feeling that the Spanish State, that of the electric car, doesn't even expect it, huh? He doesn't know it exists, nor does he expect it. And I also have the feeling that there are big companies and multinationals in the energy sector, that they have also shown great capacity to inflate, huh? , even in the creation of the current Government of the Spanish State, and which, moreover, strangely – or not – influence the impossibility of self-consumption or which is actually economically viable to re-establish, say, easily by even private or public operators, or even make it difficult for there to be points of re-re-use to private cases. Just in this has done a great job or is doing a great job the work group of the PIrvEC, specifically, which makes reference to who are the difficulties and what is to be done, and what solutions are to be found. They've even made a proposal for better..., well, and very important legal changes at the level of the Spanish State, which for us can be very important and which I'd like you to explain to us, and which is also driven by the government in everything that we understand is penalizing just the impulse of the electric car, such as the fixed costs of the electrical system, such as the promotion of the grid, or as it encourages the source of electricity in public spaces. We would also like to know what the Government of the Government of Catalonia envisages in the press of the year coming and in the proper ones, and who understands that they will be placed because private individuals can also enjoy these points of return home, which is also one of the aspects that is generating, say, the most impediments to the purchase of our electric vehicles in our country. Also, to know if we're prepared from a point of view too, because we say we're talking about a lot of changes, but there's going to be a lot of people, huh? , many new professionals, new professions linked to the electric car... What are they doing to be prepared as the country at the level of, really, being able to do it? The territorial network of electrical charging points is also very important. We understand that the country, to be really pushers and capdavants, we have to have points of recharging as at least every hundred, one hundred, one hundred and fifty kilometers, run from the country. Today we are very concentrated around Barcelona. Plus, I want to remember something that's been connected to it, too, huh? , and which also makes it very difficult to set load points, which is the power and power installation capability. Until today, there are leading industrial poles around the metropolitan area, where these large companies make it difficult to connect to the electric grid with the necessary power; let's imagine just for the car the electric charge. Well, we'd also like to know what it is, like..., that's to say, what example does the Generalitat also give, what facilities the Generalitat is putting in to drive the electric car, and if it also has plans to put itself 'hial captivating as administration and being exemplary. In this I also make a point: ask the Bureau of Parliament also that I believe that it would also be necessary for Parliament also to set an example at this point and have points of electrical charge here, around us. Well, and finally, we want to live in a captivating and catalysing country of the changes that will make a society better, healthier and cleaner. So let's ask the government what it is doing and if it really shares this idea that Catalonia has an opportunity to be ahead of Europe in one of the points that will be a new paradigm and a new economic opportunity to have a better society. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.41.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Couples. Counselor Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counselor, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.42.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, I also greet the director of Icaen... as you said, Mr. Deputy, and you said very well, we want Catalonia to be put on for electric mobility. And we want Catalonia to be on electric mobility, not because we like to have electric cars running around the streets and cities, but because electric mobility is a very important part, I would say, of what the energy transition and the new energy model that we need to build, which we need to build. Because... only about four figures. 42_percent of final energy consumption is destined for transport or absorbs road transport; this is the case. I, of this 42_per_cent, 96_per_cent has a origin in fossil fuels, in petroleum derivatives. Therefore, this concentration of a sector that consumes a lot of energy and this energy comes from oil..., it is essential to modify and it is essential to change this composition. Therefore, to focus on electric mobility is to focus on the design of a new energy model, a new energy model that reduces our dependence on oil, a new energy model that gives a major role to renewable energies through self-production, storage and self-consumption. And that's what we want. We want every time there's more energy, we want it to come from renewable energy, we want this produced energy to be able to store, we want it to be able to store in batteries, and then we want it to be able to consume. Therefore, electric vehicle, yes, and electric mobility, yes; not only..., that is also very important and also in many areas, because it has to allow the better quality of the air, but because it is a key point in this energetic transition that we all have to make. And it's true, when a new technology starts..., when Mr. Benz laid down on the roads a hundred and twenty years ago – because I don't know if there were any reelers, then – from Germany the first fuel car, it's not what he would generate, because the fuel car is not just a four-wheel car that runs, it's, besides, all the infrastructure that has been needed and that is needed to give an answer to this..., to the need of the fuel vehicle: it's gasoline, it's fossil fuel transport, it's new forms of oil extraction, it's also a design of cities..., so we're going here. And why... giving this growth and this better around electric mobility, what do we need? First, let there be technology. The technology, every time, I feel it. Automobile manufacturers are already building vehicles, but there must be and must be a drive through our lanes. I'll give you some data as well: in Norway, out of every hundred cars registered at these times, twenty-five are electric vehicles. In Holland, God, practically. France, of course. Here – and we have grown – by every cent, 0.4. So we have a long way to go. And technology is the same as everything else. What's the difference between us and what makes Norway twenty-five, Holland five, France two out of every... we're registered vehicles, and here, 0.4? So, can they be the help? There's no more help. There has been an exemption from the registration fee; the Generality is improving..., all the Generality's tolls are free for electric vehicles; moreover, most of the joints are improving the bad zone or the green zone. So, the cents are, what's missing? So, there's something missing that, sometimes, we don't think about and that's important: the refresher infrastructure. It is necessary to recharge infrastructure because a car, when we have it, is moving and the car is to be loaded and it is what we have to do, therefore, to deal intelligently with this energy sub-administration of electric vehicles. Moreover, this mobility, these infrastructures have concentrated, often, in large cities, but it is also a great opportunity for middle cities, because the middle cities often have an urban network and an urban structure that makes it easier to implement this new energy model that we are trying to build. That is to say, cases supported, cases with fewer lives, where it is easier, for example, to put solar plates..., which, moreover, many times, at the same time have the garage where the vehicles are parked and, therefore, can be put down the batteries and can be stored... And, therefore, the electric vehicle can serve as a battery – as a battery – to make self-consumer in its own buildings. Therefore, in the middle cities, we must also make a special incidence. What do we aspire to? We aspire to get to have a network of retracing points to the road network of our territory, a network that is based on three types. First, the network of linked points. What does the network of linked points mean? The garantage from our house. Those recharge points that we install in our house, that are slow recharge points, but that we aspire... now there are about 4,000, we aspire to hold it 25,000. Second, a few points of semi-fast charging, making it easier and more aware of the service sector and the importance of having these points installed so that you can recharge with a maximum of two hours. Is that what this is supposed to be? I'm supposed to be at the hospitals, the malls... now we're 40, we'd want to get to four hundred. And third, a fast charging network installed in key locations to cover the road travel to the wide area that allows to recharge the electric vehicle in thirty minutes. And that's what we're doing. He didn't say; we haven't done it since the PIRVEC, eleven. So... and our hope is to reach a hundred. Electrical mobility, if there is no decided reversal or decided actions, will not be implemented. And this reversal, how is it? In the course of the next three years, the Generalitat will allocate €5.8 million to donate, through the PIRVEC, charging points and charging points of the electric vehicle. But we want to do more things; in fact, we are doing more things. The result of this plan was to create the Table for the Recharge Infrastructure Deployment so that value inputs can be made to overcome the current barriers and achieve that electric mobility becomes a reality. And what have we done? We have agreed with different sectors on a proposal for a legislative initiative to promote the electrification of road transport, which we have carried out and designed for all the political groups of the Congress of Deputies, that what we want, what we intend to do is to create the standard framework necessary to boost this electric mobility and the deployment of a network of re-run point infrastructures in the territory. And that's important; many entities, many different entities have contributed to it. Here they have worked on rapeseed rape from Endesa Distribution to Som Energia, Circuitor or other mobility companies, Nissan..., other mobility companies and the automotive sector that have agreed to this initiative. Why? To remove those legal barriers that make it difficult to implement the recharging network of electrical infrastructures. And that's what we did. We have also deepened, in the Climate Change Bill that is currently being processed, in the administrative simplification to make it easier to install these charging points of the electric vehicle. Moreover, we are trying to take all these tolls that Spanish legislation and that big distribution companies have been doing to us, such as, for example, the managers of recharging, that this is a figure that only exists in the Spanish State, or these fixed costs only to guarantee the necessary power: even if you do not charge anyone, you have to pay for nothing. What is it they provoke? So, they make a prohibited system for the development of private business models that invest in points of replenishment of our country. We need to pull this energy transition forward. Yesterday precisely, on behalf of the Commissioner for Energy and Climate of the European Commission, the legislative package on energy for the period 2020-2030 was presented. From this package, self-consumption is a key figure and an advent. Electric mobility, the electric car is a key element in this power of self-consumption, and is therefore a key element in favor of this energy transition. And here the Generality will work together to ensure that its fleet every time more is formed by electric vehicles and also having electric vehicle charging points on all of its buildings. Thank you very much, Mr. Congresswoman, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.43.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on how to achieve more equity in sanitation]] [[300-00104/11]] The 14th item on the agenda is: Question to the Government on how to achieve more equity in sanitation, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Angels Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.44.0	Good morning, Madam President. Mr Counselor, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament..., look, this inquiry, theoretically, formally begins now, but in fact it is an inquiry that has long been making us people affected by mistakes, negligence, medical errors, that began, in some way, to self-organize the year 15, that continued to present, elaborate..., meeting, presenting itself, self-helping and going..., in the Parliament, that I know, the first formal meeting with various parliamentary groups last year, that presented an article of solutions to the Committee on Petitions that the Committee on Petitions carried out to all groups so that it decided to see what it could be done. Then they had a perfect – I would say excellent – presentation at the Sanitary Commission where, in addition, they had the brains that the presentation was double, that is, of one gang, an affected person and, of the other gang, an illiterate, so they combined and knew how to donate the rodeo image of what was suffering and injustice and, for another gang, the expert and the possibility of finding legislation that really gave a solution to these problems. In the committee on sanitation it is more than less to approve that, therefore, it would be a study job, but the inquiry is too strong because it is not brought back to this Parliament..., we will not feel again with the urgency of continuing to question this Parliament, and now this time in plenary. As has been done at a level... – but also of organizations or institutions – of various assemblies of Catalonia; associations of veins, asking, therefore, joints to see if they can help, asking associations of veins if they can become aware of what this lack of legislation is supposed to be in this sense, and passing a documentary that if they have not seen them recommend it to everyone and to everyone who sees it, the documentary that no more happens, made with Sicom and the people of Que No Pase Plus, and that seems to me to give the full measure of the magnitude of the problem, as far as it refers to, as I have said before, the pain and injustice of this legal void that there is, together with, for another band, the need for recognition of the lack of experts. What's the point with all these presentations, with these "documentary passes", with all the dialogues that have taken place in various cities, towns..., and even with the interpellations that have voted in many countries, which have voted in favour of the measures that they ask without even a single vote against, that is, that all the groups agree, at what point did they get there? The point at which it came to is simple: you have to do something. And, then, here I refer to one of the interventions made by the Iletrat in the documentary, which says: "So, well, the policies that must be legislated, so, what legislation. And we will find ourselves again with another problem and another emptiness: who do you have powers to legislate? Who's to do it? It's like, there's a problem, a real problem that doesn't exist in the world of sanitation for a specific problem of sanitation. There's a legal void and somehow... raising the spatlles, isn't there? , shoot us, or else, we all look at each other and no one assumes that it's a serious problem, that it's a hard failure to govern and that if we don't intervene at once this problem will become much and much bigger. So, if you allow me, I'll tell you that the solution I see is a few of those that aren't carried, that's collaboration; collaboration between different departments and different levels of administration, because at different levels of administration they have recognized that this problem was, that this problem should be solved, that it should be dealt with; but, in change, as you know very well, this collaboration between different levels of administration seems to be blocked. Who are the key elements of this collaboration? For example, at the level of civil society, between the people who suffer and the people who, unfortunately, commit medical errors, would eradicate guilt. This thing so Jewish Christian to seek in the professional or the medical professional that it was wrong, therefore, the fault of everything that passes. And, on the contrary, to recognize, in a much more expert and scientific way, I believe, that in the health sector too, there are mistakes and that it cannot be that the civil responsibility for these mistakes, or compensation, or the way to make life a little more viable after having suffered one of these mistakes, is to be done through a whole legal and legal maze where you know that you do not have Goliath. So good, we have Goliath. What we have before us are the great assurances, that what they are looking for at the end of the year is simply that the results accounts give benefits, and that therefore they will do everything possible and impossible not to compensate. That's to say, condemn the people who suffer from medical errors, mistakes, that in many cases, obviously... I don't think anyone wants to hurt expressly, huh? Or very few people, go, psychopaths..., commits a wrong medicine, but it represents a hard crebant in people's lives, and, in change, there is no legislation, there is no baremacia, there is no re. Therefore, the first thing would be this: it is not a problem of guilt, it is a problem of legislation, which is lacking, that in not being there, precisely, it causes these pathologies of guilt that we should banish. And, at the same time, also, stop seeing people who claim to be like people who might want to, and in some cases that's how they accuse themselves, trade with their pain. That's not the case either. We're not in the U.S. claim industry here, and maybe we've seen too many movies. What I can assure you is that if you've seen a lot of movies, but you see this documentary, that no more happens, all that you've been able to catch the head of American movies will be gone in a moment. Therefore, the responsibilities for medical performance; recognizing that it is a risky activity, as many have not. And as many of them are only at the length of time, with the passage of time, they have rejected attention and assurance. For example, in transport, in traffic, etc. And why not in the healthcare area? This would be the first question that we would have to reflect on... like a lack of fairness. If a person can repress the same cremation in his salvation, in his life, in his physical, in a traffic accident, enter a process of barrage and receive compensation..., and, in change, in the case of a health accident that does not happen. But in change, it does happen in these countries that we say we want to assemble there. Yes, it passes to France, yes, it passes to Sweden, for example, to Denmark... Or, in the countries that we want..., yes, it goes away..., that is to say, it is that the person who has lost a member, or who has become the victim of a wrong one, or who has lost a family member, passes the pain calm, without problems; enters a regulated process, perfectly established, which practically does not have to be judicialized by anything else, sanitation, and enters into a barematge. And, in turn, here's what we do to say to him: "Quick, if you need any compensation to lighten your life before making a complaint. I, count! because not all the courts in Catalonia accept that the term of the complaint expires at the end of three years, as the Catalan Civil Code says, but that they go to the Spanish law, or Spanish law, and say that with one year there is enough, and if it takes longer than a year, there is no longer any way to be able to file the complaint. So, who is the other point in which we should try to work together? They're doing less justice to the toilet, and they're stuffing and they're aware that they've been unfair...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.45.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.46.0	...manifestly manifest.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.47.0	...I know hard, it's exhausted time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.48.0	Hey! I don't know how hard it is.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.49.0	Me too, but... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Congresswoman, five minutes later. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you, Congresswoman. There's a word from Mr. Antoni Comín, Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.50.0	Thank you, Madam President. I wouldn't want you to become a bit of an empty tradition when many times, in relation to the questions I have been asked by the parliamentary group of the deputy Àngels Martínez Castells, I start by saying: "I thank you very much that you have made this question and that you have this topic on the table. But it's true. I mean, I appreciate it a lot... the department up a lot of places, but not all of them. There are all the themes on the department's agenda, but we can't all bring them to this hemisphere. And, therefore, I thank you very much for bringing this issue to the parliamentary debate, because it is a very sensitive issue, it is a very delicate one. And, therefore, all the reflection shared with the rest of the parliamentary groups, not just with civil society, sure it's useful, huh? , which doesn't mean that since the Health Department there isn't a whole policy that we think is very – very – important about all this. But with all politics, it's certainly better, let's just say it, huh? So, on the inside, I... I seem pretty sure, and I think it must be the third time, or the fourth time, that I'm starting my answer like this, and I don't want you to look like a rhetorical answer... because it's okay, right? First of all, to say that I like the mental mark on which the honourable Member laid this question, right? It's not about identifying the culprit. It's about institutionalizing the solution – it's about institutionalizing the solution. I understand we're talking a little bit about this. Because the department is always trying... I think, at these times, very particularly, in the case of Equal, because it's a case we have very recently. We've been very close to the family, from the point of view, including sensitivity, haven't we? I don't know if the word is "condence"... with much equanimity. What happened to the department in the case of the Equal? Remember that. First of all, there was the initiation of an information dispatcher, who tried to make himself as quick as a subject as complex as that allows, and once the information dispatch was completed, three resolutions were derived from the information dispatch. One is, precisely, to start the proceedings on behalf of the CatSalut of the process of property claim, on behalf of the same Servant Català de la Salut, right? The other is to offer the hospital to take better measures in care processes. And, therefore, already come up with a package of proposals, which in fact are in addition to the proposals that the same hospital has already decided that it wanted to do, with which there was already a recognition that there are better things to do and that have to be done from the organisations, not from individuals individually considered. And summon a sanctioning consignor. Now the sanctioning dispatch begins. The first is as the instruction phase, let's say, informative. Now you see this already sanctioning phase. I say in the sense that there are already established procedures that when up, unfortunately, the case proves that they are only to try to protect and avoid being repeated. Because when there have been tragedies like Iguala there is a follow-up to the family, but there is an obligation to prevent it from ever repeating a situation like this again. Therefore, beyond the procedures that the Health Department already has in place today, and which I understand to be used with all the correctness, it is true that there is a whole maze, we can say so, administration, judicial, on which to discuss and on which to reflect. The one who passes... Therefore, full receptivity to what you have proposed. Time will have to negotiate; I understand there will be a subsequent motion. And, therefore, we will have time, too, black on white, to see if we are able to agree concrete proposals in relation to this question in the framework of the negotiation of the motion. But receptivity is all there is. In relation to the fact that... and now, in the second intervention, the Member may have time to make a statement, and so my answer can also be more specific, right? I, still open, for as long as I serve as material for this negotiation, deliberation, parliamentary post-examination, pose an element of context from which we cannot support and which I do not want to be in case of responsibilities. We look at the countries around us; as they do, the countries that make it better. And, then, let's identify this legislation that they have countries around us – which, probably, a well-analysed copy, we can consider that it is better and that it would be good, therefore, to incorporate it into our system of protection from the victim of a medical error – of whom it is competence. We'll have to analyze that, too. And then we'll have to see what we're doing, because there's a big part – a big part – and I'm not talking about interdepartmentality, which is also a repte... I mean, too. I mean, it's not the same to push standard changes that depend on a single department that pushes standard changes that depend on different departments. Complexity, by definition, is already higher. But I don't mean that, because at the top and bottom the government is one. So, if here we want to push for changes that take place in some... judicial proceedings, for example, there may be questions about the legislation that drives the Department of Justice, etc., right? But it wouldn't be difficult to end up finding, obviously, a shared position for the government. I am referring to the fact that there are competitions that probably once we have the analysis, we will all agree that they are from the Congress of Deputies, and I would say that from the point of view of judicial processing, and therefore from the point of view of the trial, etc., assurances, most of the things that we might be interested in changing must be the competence of the Congress of Deputies. So, before that, we'll see what action can be taken, but it's complicated, and more at this political moment, let's just say, right? This, for a song; just as the identification element of the difficulty to pull forward some of the eventual, hypothetical, standard changes that might interest us to pull forward. The other question that I put on the table, and I think that here we do have a margin of action that I think could be the element on which to work the most, is in the logic of disallowing, in the logic of apologizing, huh? , in the logic that there are no actors who do not correspond to those who determine institutional solutions. The assurances are to fulfill their obligations, and not to influence, hinder or discourage complaints or stop them from discouraging. No, no, it's not his job. So, here, every one of them has the job to do, let's just say, right? I think that what we should put on the table is – as an open reflection, I insist, because these things have to be done very solid, very well built, because Roman..., think what is to be the instrument of mediation, with all the expert, so with all the medical and legal professionals, that you can give solutions that are more agile, less traumatic, less bureaucratic and just as protective to victims of medical errors. Therefore, there is a scope for mediation, based on the premise that professionals are people; people are human, people make mistakes. And, therefore, we institute a mediation service that is intended to respond to the conflict that many times, unfortunately, will inevitably be generated between a professional, who has tried to do his job as best as possible, and a patient. And, therefore, I understand that mediation should allow us more that this is a fact that avoids one of the risks, that is that the professional feels unfairly accused, that the professional feels unfairly attacked. This week I was..., well, I..., a company of the Department of Health..., receiving a premium of a half-hour from the sector for a program directed to professionals or teams of professionals who have been involved in an incident related to the safety of a patient, which is what the program of second victims is all about, isn't it? Second victim. Because there are also very strong consequences for the professional who has been involuntarily involved, most of the time, in a situation like this. And, therefore, we also have to work in this sense, don't we? How to rehabilitate the second opportunity of the second victim. I understand that mediation is not a magic rod that I'm all about, but it does put us in a new paradigm, which is, this: the professional's perpetual non-disability, the more agile protection, which is one of the victim's things and less traumatic, and the ability to incorporate professional experts with greater intensity than we have now in the judicial system, where one of the problems is that sometimes experts are not enough experts. Perhaps the mediation – and I will just explain this in my second intervention – would allow us to move forward in these three senses.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.51.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mrs. Angels Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.52.0	Yeah. Well, then, I assure you... I assure you, Mr. Counselor, that we are pleased that you are pleased with the proposals we have here. It means that there is a certain harmony, and to me, for example, in concrete terms, yesterday of the universalization of salvation – and I don't want to waste time – it seemed magnificent to me; but I also have to say that universalization has its own ‘songs, has its own exclusives, and in one of these exclusives these non-places are produced, such as those that are going on with victims, with the double victims of medical errors, and for which we are here. Miri, we now have a very important opportunity, which is that Catalonia is again, as in so many other things related to sanitation, a pioneer in resolving a lack of fairness, an injustice that exists that time has to solve, that in other countries has already been solved and that here, therefore, we have to assume. So, if there's this tune, if there's this availability, if there's this humanity to solve this problem, then let's get in there. And it seems to me that his proposal for mediation, so it is good, as it will also be good, surely, that you see with good eyes the motion for a motion that we will make in the proper plenary, and that it will be very short in relation to the needs of the people who do not pass anymore, the people who are the victims of..., but that we will begin to demand some things. Look, this is a fight – it's a fight – to recognize a real fact that is not legislated and that causes pain, that causes injustice, that causes useless and unequal struggles that unfortunately lose many times the heaviest; for a gang, that's it. It is a struggle, too, against the pettyness of large undertakings which, taking advantage of the legal vacuum, try to mark or impose their law of benefit when it is much more in favour of victims to resolve this problem; which, therefore, is a public issue and the public sector, the public administration, the policy is to be implemented, and which we can be, in this sense, a flag, only for the recognition, for our involvement, to make clear our interest that this is resolved, we can already be, in some way, a hope that things are empty solving. There are things that call to heaven, for example, the question of costs, as they were saying, the question of terms, because they cause the "polluters" when they are lost – when they are lost – many times, for some experts, I would say, fraudulent. And let's say one thing in a minute, let's say one thing: imagine that you are operating from an operation, that you are drawing every day, from an operation that in principle does not have any more complications, only the first weeks, but that leaves them incontinent for life, and that you are losing simply because the expertise of the great company has gutted the part of the University of Harvard or of Alberta or so on, that says that that incontinence is only giving the first weeks in most cases; that in the rest of the cases this incontinence passes to the measure that the time is advancing. But the judge doesn't know that she's squeaky and legislates more with more costs than the person who suffers this injustice. It is precisely..., if Catalonia is considered, or can be considered to be a pioneer in many cases in fights, such as, for example, the fight against AIDS and the fight against other diseases, I think that it must also be a pioneer in the fight against this double victimization of the victims of medical errors and of massively loving and decant judicial proceedings against the insurance companies that do not reach the people who suffer these mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.53.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martinez. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.54.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, you are quite right that you are talking a little bit more and that I do not think that the President is willing to adapt the speaking time, because the Rules do not think that I allow it, at the speed of speech of the Members, what we will value is the possibility that a Member, a councillor generously gives part of his time to the interviewer; we will already talk to the President and then next time, if in any case, I will give him some of the minutes that correspond to me and so the name of the words will remain, by intervention, more balanced. That's what we're saying, we're... we're actually, huh? And they're the same entities that'll drop the patients' rights in front of the lawsuits that make them a little diagnostic, huh? His diagnosis, but I think he's a diagnosis we need to listen to, right? Careful. And they tell us that there's this asymmetry between the ability to raise resources in a dispute between the people they're asking for and the insurance companies. And we also have to be aware of the risk against it; we also have to be aware that, according to what we have decided, we are becoming more aware..., right? , the demand may not have so much power, and therefore, in this sense, we must always be aware of the main risks but also of the secondary risks that are at the other corner of the report. But it's obvious that there's this asymmetry here. It is obvious that there is a difficulty in interlocating the possible victim with the medical organizations of professionals who may arise, if the solution of the problem is judicialized, with a more defensive attitude. And that's what's causing the prosecution, too, because it's already setting up the relationship in certain terms that generates these defensive positions on the sides, isn't it? Then, there's probably a lot to improve on court experts when they're dealing with these questions. And, therefore, there is a subject of expertise. I don't want to talk about fraudulent experts – you were talking about it – in the sense that this is something that must be demonstrated in every case. But the case that you were explaining is very difficult, it's so hard that it's a crime, it's so hard that it should be brought before the courts, because that's evidence manipulation, and evidence manipulation, more than part of a process of patrimonial complaint of a medical error, it's gravity. And I think it's true that it's to extend the judicial cavalry of a certain person, but I have to do it; I have to do it to unmask when there are practices of these, because they are practical..., if they are given, they are criminal practices – if they are given they are criminal practices, right? So there's all this. And, in this sense, misjudgment – and, therefore, mediation – minimizes the drawbacks of all of this. Because mediation will make it easier for professional organizations to intervene in this process in a less defensive way, which can take into account the interest of the professional related to the medical error, and therefore, the whole logic of the second victim and his... This I think is also very important. That it is possible to put the experts who agree in this system, and that we find the point of balance in relation to what it gives to the principle: nor..., mediation guarantees us a certain balance, in the sense that it does not encourage the improper complaint – the mediation system does not facilitate this – but what it does also is to avoid that it is disincentives the necessary complaint, the just complaint, the oral complaint, let us say, that it is certainly, indeed, the one that today passes us over time. Therefore, I believe that from total sensitivity to all the victims of these problems, that, I repeat, we must tend to never produce, but zero risk is probably impossible, and therefore they will produce, and therefore we must hear the victim patient, but also the professional victim, the institutionalization of systems that find just balance should allow us, in this sense, to improve, and, indeed, and I am glad that in this sense we agree, to be pioneers again, once more, right? In the area of sanitation. Even though I take a lot of note of it, also – beyond the intention to be pioneers – the suggestion, that it is obvious that it is very uncertain, that we analyze those countries of our circle that are already doing better. Because if there are countries in this that are already doing better, the first thing we have to do is to understand well what the normal mark of these countries is and see how we can apply it. Thank you, Congresswoman. I am very glad that we can finally have an inquiry in this legislature. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.55.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the reversal of the reels]] [[300-00106/11]] The 15th item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on the reversal of the ballots presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose it, has the word Mr. Alberto Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.56.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, the reason for this inquiry comes with the intention of improving our communication infrastructures, such as the roads of Catalonia. The fact of having the best communications and trying to update them and improve them must be one of the pretensions of any modern society and with a competitive economy such as the Spanish one, and therefore also the Catalan one. Communications are basic to help develop our economy, our businesses and especially the logistics sector. In an increasingly global world, where the economy has fewer and fewer borders, having the best possible network of roads helps the success of our companies, and therefore also of our economy. It makes us more competitive and more effective. But it obviously also helps us to improve our relationship with the territory. A good network of roads makes us the shortest distances, allows us to better know our surroundings and the capacity of knowledge and contact with other municipalities. Knowledge of other realities and ease of travel forces us to open our minds and understand that communications are to help unite territories, and help break barriers. But the main object of this inquiry comes from the interest of improving the quality of our infrastructures with the aim of improving the safety of people. In this sense, when we talk about road safety, there are several factors that influence the reduction of the risk of accident. The vehicle, the driver and the infrastructure. The vehicle, of course, in the good or bad technical conditions that it is, can raise or decrease the chances of an accident. Or the driver: the driver's responsible attitude or behaviour greatly influences the probability of having an accident. In this case the Administration can help, carry out awareness campaigns for a more responsible driving. And the third factor is infrastructure. Its maintenance, improved connection and adaptation to the new realities of communication between territories and new transport needs is essential. In this case, there are different actors, those who act having their responsibility in different infrastructures: the State, the Generalitat, the deputies and the local world. And all of them must be required to exercise the utmost diligence in their actions and to demand the necessary investments to make our roads the best possible. We will take as reference the Eurorap study, which you should know very well, in which participates the RACC, the Servei Català de Trànsit, the Diputació de Barcelona and the Generalitat de Catalunya. And here we see some quite interesting data: among the 10 sections with the most risk of accident in Catalonia between 2012 and 2014, 4 are owned by the Generalitat, 5 depend on the Barcelona Diputation and only 1 of the State; of the sections with the highest concentration of accidents in Catalonia, 4 are owned by the Generalitat, 3 by the State and the rest of the Chambers, and in sections with more motorcycle accidents, 3 are by the Generalitat, 2 by the State and 5 by the Chambers. You have here the obsessive and constant claim to the State to make constant investments in infrastructure. And I tell you, counselor, you'll find us here and, if you need to, we'll claim them too. But, of course, it is not the ones that accumulate the most accidents; there may be exceptions, like the 340, but, of course, it is not the ones that accumulate the most accidents or those that have a higher rate of danger; on the contrary. And to continue with this debate in the end can cause us to turn our gaze to other very serious problems that we have in Catalonia. In this sense, we see that the roads of the deputies, especially of the Barcelona Parliament, are among the most accumulating accidents, and you, as a government, do little to claim. It is true that there is this reality and you have, for the moment, made no claim to improve these roads. There is a need for proactive action to plan investments that will improve the state of the Member's roads. There are worrying roads, such as Begues to Gavà or Vilassar to Argentona, which need immediate action. Let us hope that this lack of action or complaint by the Government of the Generalitat has nothing to do with the President of the Barcelona Parliament being Mrs Mercè Conesa. And we also observe that, among the most dangerous sections of roads, a large part of these depend or are owned by the Generalitat of Catalonia. And here you, as a government, can act. The black dots have them more than detected and, therefore, what needs to be done is to plan and schedule the actions, their investment and their execution. And you, as Administration, what you have to do is manage and take responsibility for the roads. That's why you're missing some disinformation campaigns from some well-known foundation charging against the state government on the 340, when management is up to you and when the announcement of getting the trucks off this road was made by the Home Secretary himself. And yet he doesn't talk about the C-55. Counselor, some actions are already urgently needed. And in this case, I'm going to emphasize the C-55, in the region of Bages. A road with a high degree of accidentability, on which any setback makes the retentions last hours and kilometers. We have the example of what happened on 26 November: vehicles held for hours, difficulties with emergency services to get to the site, mismanagement, misinformation. Bad information such as, for example, the official declaration to close the C-55 all night in both directions, when it was only in the direction of Barcelona. But that's just an example of what's going on on this road. They know that the accident rate on this road is worrying enough to be already in the C-55. It is therefore an outstanding subject of the Government of the Generalitat in the field of infrastructure. Bottlenecks are daily and, unfortunately, accidents too frequent. The unfolding of Abrera-Manresa must be one of the priority and urgent actions that you must implement. What alternative would it be? Facilitate diversion to the C-16 with free tolls. You'll tell me there are bonuses; it's not enough. We are very afraid that this gratuity is not going to happen. Why? Well, look, there are some voices in the region that think that the Generalitat is not interested in doubling the C-55 because it would mean losing users to the C-16 and, of course, this has to be financed by the tolls and that would entail paying greater compensation to the concessionaire. You– I give you a given and you will correct me, because it seems to me an excessive given– pay about 30_million to the dealership of the C-16. Obviously, we understand that you do not want to pay any more, but seeing the accidents in the C-55, Mr. Counsellor, physical integrity and road safety cannot depend on the economic relationship of the Generalitat with the concessionaire of the C-16. What have you done? A patch. What was his alternative? Install mediums, New Jersey-type separations for more than ten kilometers along the track, which eventually turns it into a mousetrap. If there is an accident, it is very difficult for emergency services to have access to the point where the accident occurred. This is not the solution, Mr. Counsellor. The solution is the unfolding of the C-55 and, in the meantime, the gratuitousness for tourists in the C-16. That is the solution, that must be your priority, Mr. Counsellor. In another state of affairs, seeing accidental data with motorcycles, I would like to know what planning and what action they are taking to try to reduce the number of accidents among drivers. Catalonia is a land with a considerable number of motorcycles registered, especially in the city of Barcelona, so we know the fleet of two-wheeled vehicles that exists in Catalonia, the most frequented sections by them and which sections are the most dangerous for motorcycle users. Having all these variables, I understand that you have had to carry out an action plan on the problem, awareness campaigns, as well as improvements in our infrastructures. That is why I would ask you to let us know what these actions you intend to take. I'm finishing up, Mr. Counselor. It is okay to demand improvements and investments from other administrations, and there you will have our understanding and support whenever they are reasonable, but let's also look at what we can do from here and within our competences and with the roads that are owned by the Generalitat. It is easy to see the straw in the eye and not see the beam in the eye itself, and in this matter the Government of the Generalitat has much to do and many pending and urgent actions. And among them, and as a matter of priority, that of the C-55. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.57.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. Next, the words of Mr. Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.58.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Villagrasa, first of all, I would like to thank you for your intervention. It has remained with an issue that is extremely sensitive; when we talk about road safety, using an appropriate tool helps us to find common spaces and, in fact, the citizens who ask us, who demand us are alternatives, are solutions. But, said that, it was hard for me to hear the feeling from his intervention because, with a lot of cordiality, I think he has swept very different concepts. I mean, I have the perception, and maybe I'm wrong, and then you'll talk me out of it, and you came here to defend the General Administration of the State. He said: "I count on the General Administration of the State in the management of its reels because you and the deputy, which is governed, the Barcelona Parliament, for the PDECat, therefore, and for the Republican Left, things do not do them well. A little feeling has remained this way. And what concerns us is the combination of the Catalan road system, which is the infrastructure owner. Follow the General Administration of the State, follow the Generality of Catalonia, follow the deputies or follow the Local Administration. We have a difficult problem of accessibility to habitats, especially the Pyrenees, and these are local natural paths. Now in the assumptions, if we can finally pull them forward, we set a very important game just to transfer resources to the joints so that they can fit in, so that they can do the actions that allow a right as basic as accessing their population core. Therefore, we – we have a general view – care about the safety of any infrastructure. And, therefore, here he will find us. What is the priority in these moments, in a situation of financial difficulty, on the part of the Government of Catalonia? And then I'll explain who the motivations are. One is of general character: the Generalitat de Catalunya has a problem of infra-financing. Catalonia has a fiscal deficit problem that is very obvious, very clear, very hard and that is reflected in the performance of the government's joint. But beyond that, who are our priorities? Our priorities in the area of career paths go through four axes: u, security; two, congestion; three, territorial balance; four, promoting economic activity at a time when we are beginning to emerge from the economic crisis, and this remains very much reflected in the field of mobility. In this fourth block there is a very important presence of public transport. When we talk about improving the road network we also want to improve it to incorporate the public transport vector and, therefore, at the time of making investments, we, for example, at these times are prioritising those actions that allow us to build high-occupancy wagons, reserved, segregated for public transport operated by road. We have a system that is successful at these moments, that are the express buses and that are precisely going through high-capacity, high-capacity lives. But it gave him, therefore, security, congestion, territorial balance and this fourth variant that is economic activity. And so, we prioritize where we can put public transport and prioritize where we can access the economic activity that generates jobs for us. And yet framed with a basic criterion, which is cross-cutting, which is consistent with this government, which is sustainability, and environmental sustainability. The environmental factor has to be key from this perspective. According to one element, he talked about it: the problem of financing that the Generalitat of Catalonia has had for many years has forced us to have to build explicit paid lives, which are very dear to the citizen – a lot. There is a very obvious, very clear, very round case, which is the C-32, the tunnels of the Garraf: building an infrastructure with tunnels is very, very much because, and therefore, this impact on some tolls, which are a higher toll than other administrations; that was said yesterday by the Minister of the Serna, and you are right, from this perspective. What does not explain either is that the State Administration's tolls have spread a lot over time. And the second, that of the C-16, is also a very expensive act, because there was a certain time that, either these lives are done with explicit toll, or simply not done, there was no other option. There were tunnels of the Garraf, or we continued with the costs of the Garraf; or there were C-16, or we left the districts of Vallès and Bages and Berguedà in a complicated situation. But, second, at a second stage we had to finance lives of great capacity that the country needed through a different financing, through that which we give to the "tolls in the shadow". And tolls in the shadows are extraordinarily expensive and expensive, and have a very strong impact on the assumption of the Government of Catalonia today. Donors only a given: unfolding the Transversal axis, to the Generalitat de Catalunya it cost 710_million euros, approximately. There's the Secretary of Infrastructures and Mobility, who has all the numbers in his head with greater precision, but it seems to me that we are moving in this xifra, 710-715. It will last us, as at least 3,300– 3,300. Why do you say, "Home, then, what was the alternative? Or make an explicit payment path, or the alternative was not to unfold the Transversal axis, which had a very high accident level. If Catalonia had a better funding system, we wouldn't have to go this way. And that's key, and that's basic, and that's determinant, and there's no debate about reels ignoring this aspect. And then you incorporated the reference to C-55. This is a way that we care about, and we care a lot. And you were talking about security. We talk with concrete figures, with concrete numbers: any accident in the least, a single accident is a drama for the family that the patient and, therefore, at the time of talking about us we need extreme, extraordinary caution, but there is one thing, that is that at C-55 the year 2012 there were twenty-six accidents or fatal or very heavy, and the last year in which we have typhoid, the year 2015, we are talking about seven heavy or fatal accidents. And so, there's been a flood of accident, and this flood is driven by the action the Government of Catalonia has taken in relation to incorporating better accesses, and we've made a very important reversal in accesses, and, for another band, these middle-aged people, these New Jerseys that prevent frontal bumps from happening. And so, at these times, with great caution, but the data are these, we have been able to reduce the fatal accident and very hard to C-55. But the C-55, and you're right about that, has a congestion problem – has a congestion problem – and it's a contradiction that we have to be able to manage. And this is where we're looking for alternatives. What you haven't heard is that we have a free route, a free route of payment of 1+1 – in certain cases, 1+2 –, which is the C-55, with a half-day intensity of vehicles at these times of 27,000 vehicles; and, on the other hand, we have a motorway with a capacity of 80,000 daily vehicles for which there are only 14,000 vehicles. This is the paradox. I mean, we have a very full and low-capacity road, and a highway with a lot of capacity and not quite full, to use this..., an appropriate expression. What are we supposed to do with this? So, we have to be bosses– and this is the line of action of the Government of Catalonia – to reverse or balance the terms. And that's why we're pushing for an important bonus policy, in this sense, which has allowed us to start moving from the C-55 to the C-16, incorporating enhancements to the 100_per_cent internal journeys – the internal journeys in the Bages – and the journeys that go towards the Valley or that can go to the Berlin of 50_per_cent. He knows that we are now improving the first bonus decree, that this month of generation we will put in value a new bonus decree that will allow us to improve and increase the number of users benefited. But beyond that – and I finish, Madam President – in the second we will have the opportunity to make a wider view. Because that's what happens to us, this contradiction that happens to us here, in Bages and in Vallès, it happens to us in Garraf and Baix Penedès, and it also happens to us in other places. And we need to be able to do this with a global vision, with which you know that we are working with all parliamentary groups. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.59.0	Thank you, Counselor. The word has Mr. Alberto Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.60.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the central administration of the state defends itself. It defends itself with the investments it makes in Catalonia. And the outstanding debts, they are being executed; for example, the variant of Vallirana, a historic claim that the People's Party Government has finally launched. Can you say the same about the C-55? You talked about security, congestion, economic promotion, sustainability. We agree. These four conditions are fulfilled by the C-55? No, no, Security, no; congestion, has it; economic promotion, for the service it gives, impossible; sustainability, please... Don't tell me about bonuses, Mr. Counsellor, what needs to be given are solutions. The medians New Jersey possibly decrease, and it's true, frontal shocks, but accidents happen every day. Yesterday there was one and there were therefore some kilometre queues in the C-55. Why? Unfortunately, the measures you take can solve a problem, but they create others: that when there is an accident, however small, a mousetrap is created in which emergency services or technical services have a capacity to arrive, therefore, very limited. And what is the solution? You will tell me: "No, we must look for alternative solutions... No, if there is no alternative, Mr. Counsellor; the alternative is to unfold the C-55. Are they going to do it, yes or no? Do they have plans, yes or no? In the end, it is true that while this work is being done, a solution must be found. Which one is it? The gratuitousness of the C-16, that is the alternative; temporary solution, because the final solution is the unfolding, and it has always been said so. And if that doesn't happen what is done is to frustrate – frustrate – all those promises that have been made for a long time to those people who go through the C-55, who live in Manresa or who live in the Bages. And that can't be done. You talk about the state, but you don't talk much about the parliaments. I told you before: of the roads with the highest index, according to a study in which you participate, with the highest degree of accidents are roads of the Diputación de Barcelona. Mrs Mercè Conesa, tell her that she has to act on those roads. Have you been asked for anything? Have you been sent a letter to demand that the defender of the stellates in her municipality act already on those roads which have such a high degree of accidentality? Because I, and no one in the government, have heard you name the responsibility of the Barcelona Parliament for these roads at all. Mr. Counsellor, it is true that general planning is necessary for us to have better roads, actions and look territory by territory, province by province the actions that are needed. But I do tell you that in the top ten you have the C-55. And I ask you, once again: among those imaginative solutions or alternatives that they have, is the commitment to unfold the C-55? Yes or no? For when? And if so, will the neighbours of the region of Bages have the gratuitousness of the C-16 in the meantime? Let there be bonuses: good service, security and prospects for the future. If you want to ensure the safety, non-congestion, economic promotion and sustainability of the region of the Bages, unfold the C-55 and help the neighbors to have a much safer, more sustainable road safety and driving, and that the companies of the region can use it safely and promote the economy of the Bages. Thank you, Mr. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.61.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.62.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. MP, if you were from a group that has never ruled and is not ruling, this intervention – that has a point of exoticism, if you will – we could, we could, we could, hear. But you come here and tell us: "You make the C-16 free, so rescue it, which you mean around 700_million euros, "you do this. He's telling us this, huh? , essentially. I, in addition, says to us: « Unfold the C-55. And you tell us that with those terms. You... look, yesterday Vice President Junqueras explained it: every tenth of the deficit that you prevent us from assuming is around 200_million euros. To double the entire C-55 would cost us about 110, 120_million euros. The assumption that we have allocated to the new road network is around 40_million euros. You do the numbers. You have the answer. You have the question, ask the question; you have the answer, perfectly. And he shows up here as if he doesn't have a sense of responsibility for anything. He said: "The State is indeed fulfilling. And tell us about the Vallirana variant. Home, please, go down to Lobregat and explain it. But, look: the year... There was a time when it was convenient, and it was a convenient year 2005 between the Government of Catalonia, the Department of Territorial Policy and Public Works there and the Ministry of Development. And there was a sequence of reversal forecasts that were two lists: 3,000_million from the State and the Generality. The level of compliment by the Generality of these investments, in what corresponded to it until the year 2012, was 80_per_cent; of the State, 30_per_cent. And, therefore, you, at the time of making determined demands with a populist tone, be a little more careful. Because I gave him the data from a security point of view. I've given you these specific C-55 data, and you didn't want to listen to them. He's going to explain to us some serious accident problems that exist in certain lives, but the accident is reduced to the extent that the wagons are enlarged. And the congress... the congresses don't have folded lives, or practically don't have folded lives. And this is a bearing factor, and you, as a good politician and a good deputy, this given, which is no less... you should know her. So, what are we up to? Home, we have developed the development projects. There is a theme of economic availability, of financial availability. And you, this, you know. And, therefore, what do we have to do? Do we have to manage the while? And manage it, while we're at it? While we are managing it, first of all, we are taking concrete measures to reduce accidents at this stage, reduce accidents at C-55. Second: I'll give you a data on the C-55. Miri, between the years 2015 and 2016 35_percent of the investment resources in nine rectors of the Government of Catalonia we have allocated to the C-55. Fixed if it is important and transcendent this road, this way, that has a structuring role at the territorial level. With the resources available, we're doing this. And we're doing something else, which is planning to increase these bonuses. And when there are situations of incidents... I've already advanced it, on the 19th there will be a new meeting to see how we can perfect the protocols for lifting barriers, in case of accidents at the C-55, at the C-16. But the last question – and this is an element in which Mr Santi Rodríguez, of his parliamentary group, is working –: we need a new funding system from our road network; we need to get resources in some way so that these tolls that require many citizens to use lives that they don't have enough capacity to be eliminated. And this is the new model of management and financing of the road network that we have proposed to you. And we have proposed to participate – and we have met with you – in parliamentary groups, trade unions, employers, professional colleges, transporters and organisations of various kinds. Because what we need is to radically change the model, we need to go to a financing model that is harmonic, sustainable, but that allows us to attack these situations of a toll that in many cases are radically unfair. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And what they do is this absurdity – let me hide in those terms – that there is a congested C-55 and an empty C-16. You can find alternatives, look for alternatives. But this isn't about populist speeches. [[remorse of the voice]] , but it's doing serious, solid and reasonable measures. And we'll talk about it in the process of these...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.63.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.64.0	...suppositions. And you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.65.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.66.0	... if they fly – I finish, Madam President – they have the key; here and in Madrid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.67.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a specific committee for the study of entrepreneurship and self-government]] [[252-0003/11]] The next item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution creating a specific committee to study entrepreneurship and self-government. As this motion for a resolution has been put forward for all parliamentary groups, we will now begin the return so that each of the fixed groups will have its place. In the first place, will speak Mr Joan García, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.68.0	President... deputies, deputies, are more than 548,000 the autonomies that have decided, or have decided their day, to believe in a dream with the courage of those who know they don't do it..., or that they do it without a safety net. But as much as its importance to the fabric of the product, we continue to see that they have remained invisible to the Government of the Generality, and, in fact, we are seeing it in the assumptions of 2017. This is where this invisibility is certified, when the most important game they dedicate exclusively to the autonomous is the maintenance of the Web of the Department of Work. All a statement of intentions that we believe we can change. The data from the last few years were particularly worrying, with a descent of the autonomous workers accumulated of 9,4_per_cent, much over communities such as Andalusia, with a 2,2_per_cent. The last quarterly data are also worrying, with a fall of 0.6_per_cent. And it's that the self-employed may suffer the worst of being a worker on their own, on issues such as job insecurity, and the worst of being an entrepreneur, putting their assets at risk. But sometimes the autonomous work is also in most cases the right space to locate the enterprise, to start building dreams that, transformed into facts, end up building the richness of our product model. We also need to bear in mind that not all autonomies are starting a project; many of them need help to consolidate it or simply survive and arrive at the end of the month. And here we have to make a very special mention of many autonomous women who overcome added difficulties, but who, even so, have been protagonists of the economic recovery and generation of work of the last years, since they are the negotiations led by women who are the most maintained in time. Today, with the creation of this commission that we are pushing from Citizens and that we would also like to be able to lead, and to which other political forces have joined and join, we realize, for us, a part of the objectives that we as a group have in this legislature: to have a space dedicated precisely to those that with their dreams can build the way out of the crisis that we still suffer. And it's not a commission– and in this case I want to send a message to Junts for the Yes – to store, from our point of view, caresses, or draw impossible scenes, or exercise only active listening, as the Lower Councillor speaking of the Council of Autonomous Work told us yesterday. For us, this is a commission where we commit ourselves to working very seriously in the elaboration of useful proposals for the autonomous world. These are proposals that we have already explained from the legislative framework, some approvals, but which are not yet implemented, have not been implemented for the Government, such as the measures to facilitate, for example, the consolidated business of self-governments that are about to retire that they do not tank and can go to high-vulnerability stops, such as majors of forty-five years or single-parent heads of family, that they can continue; or measures that we have proposed on the need to give solutions to self-employed workers who have to take the down by maternity, temporary incapacity or work accident; or as we are doing at the Congress of Deputies, where before yesterday was approved the processing of the law of urgent measures of self-employment, which includes, among other things, the administrative budget of the non-government, the budget of the government. All these are measures proposed for Citizens in which we are not endowed with the privileges of the autonomous, but we simply believe that we are doing justice: we are returning part of the effort that the autonomous workers have brought to the construction of our society, because until now they have followed, the autonomous, the ones who have brought us, and will follow, resources to the social security box, have generated jobs and are responsible for almost one third of the economic activity to all of Spain. In short, and finally, we believe that from Citizens we have the duty to offer solutions to the autonomes and to achieve that we may, including, have time to follow the activity of this Parliament, that we may think that we, your deputies, can do something to improve a little, perhaps only a little, his life and that we may put things less difficult or that we may include, perhaps, what we are doing today, with the creation of the commission of the autonome, serves something. Thank you, president, deputies, deputies. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.69.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the words of Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.70.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Well, so today we're making a very short intervention to support this commission on self-employed workers and entrepreneurs. It's a topic we've often talked about in this chamber and in various committees, and I guess not to talk enough about it, so we'll improve its conditions, but we hope that the work we do serves because we put black on white before some times we have and some solutions, and actually the government pulls them forward. Because without the government's will, counselors, it is true that, for many commissions that we do, then, therefore, there can be no better working conditions for either one or the other, no better working conditions, no better working conditions, no better working conditions, no better working conditions, no better working conditions. In Catalonia we have, and Congressman García also said, 278,000 people who are autonomous. It's a cipher growing up. We are the autonomous community that we have the most autonomous, it is true; now a 35_percent more women, it is to say that the women start to start in a very clear way, and also the foreigners also earn a share for what they do, therefore, to the autonomous: at these times they are already an 8,7. They're important figures, they're interesting figures, but we also need to be aware of why, too, there's always an increase in self-employed people or entrepreneurs around us when we're in times of crisis. Many often it is because the fact of not finding work ends up forcing people to undertake, to become self-employed and, therefore, to try to start, beyond working life on behalf of another, therefore, an adventure that does not always end well. It is true that the indexes of, say, death are also better, but we still need to be careful, because a new phenomenon has emerged that you know, that is of the false self, that is not cease to be worrying, because in the end they are people who should give service to various companies, end up being very conditioned only to one, and that, finally, is not an autonomous one: it is someone who works on behalf of another with a false relationship. Therefore, this is an element that we will have to work on and plan to see how we resolve, so precisely this new phenomenon that has emerged later, especially with the crisis situation. And with the autonomies – we haven't talked many times – there have been backs in taxation, as it's been before being autonomous to the company, because you can be autonomous, but the moment you start hiring staff, so maybe it's better to go to the company, that's to say, we'd also have to see how these steps also improve the conditions. After we have the last study of the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor, of the year 2015, that I, that I see here the Oriol Amat, I am almost ashamed to talk about this, because he is an expert on the subject of entrepreneurship, and I hope that he can be in this commission, or I would ask them to Together for the Yes – and now on where I don't touch me – that actually the Oriol Amate can form part of it, because it is true that he is, I believe, one of the people who knows the most; he has directed studies like this and knows very well the way in which we move. If there are two times that you say this study that we have in the realm of entrepreneurship, it is precisely the difficulty that we have in our society about the value that there is of entrepreneurship, that is, how there is still a low perception about the state that generates being an entrepreneur. Many countries have a very positive economic or social status, here it is not so good, and this is a key element for people to take on. And the second element is exactly what perception we have at the time of having opportunities to start a business. Here we are given points under innovative countries around us. This means that people don't just want to start a business anymore because it's not a massively positive social element, even though it has grown and improved in the past few years, but also because you think there are few opportunities. And being on top of innovative countries that we have around us, so it makes us have important challenges here to work, especially if we take into account that there is a lot of entrepreneurial growth in times of crisis, as I said, above all for what it does to self-occupation. And we can't confuse self-occupation with enterprise: who wants to start is because he has an idea and wants to develop a product or a service, and what he does is self-occupation because he doesn't find work and, therefore, has neither the will nor the ability to undertake. This is very important to keep in mind and see how we can solve this. Then there is another element that I believe the committee would also be well placed to work, which is the issue of entrepreneurs, that is to say, of those who work in a company, a new product, a new service, or create a spin-off in the same company. This is also a phenomenon that has come out in the last few days, that they are also growing up in Catalonia and that probably, therefore, we should also be able to work. Although many years ago we talked about entrepreneurship and self-government, I think it's a pretty important issue, that we still have a long way to go to find ourselves at the innovative country levels around us, and so much good this committee has a date of beginning and ending, so many proposals and the government can implement them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.71.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Next, the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.72.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, let's hope we don't make the point that when you don't know what to do with a subject, you think you're a commission. Because it is true that the subject matter that is proposed to be studied in committee affects – it has already been explained here – an important collection and that it would require the application of radical measures to improve its situation; it is true, for example, that it is necessary to improve the social protection of the self-employed and its equality in rights and obligations with the rest of the workers, as it would also be true, for example, that more concrete policies to support sectors of production that are still today patenting the crisis, are still being punished, in order to prevent the growth of labour deregulation, that takes a lot of people to become self-employed without being their will..., or that it would also be desirable to guarantee access to credit for those entrepreneurs with ideas that can generate them. All this is true, among a bunch of other things, and that is why we agreed to jointly propose the creation of this commission. Now, they'll let me manifest – I'm sorry, huh? – the lack of confidence in the effectiveness of parliamentary study commissions to resolve concrete people's questions, as demonstrated by the recent parliamentary history. Basically, for two questions: the mechanism of operation itself of these commissions, and second place, for the actual ability of the calendar of a parliament that already has a _forty commissions created at this time, thirty-nine if we count the working groups and the intergroups. And a committee of study on a subject already studied, as it is the one that deals with us – and that nobody sees us again, I believe, because, if not, it would be worrying –, in our hearing it has a single virtue, it would have a single virtue: to be able to find the necessary consensus in a final report that I intend to be complete. And here's where we'll find, I understand, two problems, which are what we're going to solve and what we're going to solve, if we want this to be approved for something real. The first is that probably some proposals in which we may or may not agree will be of state competence, and this will be a first problem. But, of course, before we agree on the proposals, and here we have the second problem, because we are not talking about a management issue but about a question of the work model that we defend, and the work model that we defend, as we have seen in different commissions, differs a little bit. To sum up, here, in our turn, there is a liberal conception that we agree with and prefer to confuse enterprise with autonomous work, which considers that self-employment and self-employment is the model that needs to expand and empower to overcome the crisis. And there is another view that considers that prioritizing this model will, every time more, be the dependent autonomes, because that is precisely what it means to reduce the costs to companies using a strategy of outsourcing the work based on self-exploitation of the autonomes, which, as a matter of necessity, renounces some decent working conditions, which is the reality that we are finding ourselves in the country. And that's not intermediate – that's not intermediate. Therefore, here I suspect that we can get along very well, because..., the same way that some recent studies tell us that the more than a million locals in our country are obliged to do so and that a 70_per_cent say they are because they cannot be waged and would want to be waged. So, we have a lead where we can go. That means we'll have to focus on the elements we're sure to agree on. Do we agree that it is necessary to encourage entrepreneurship? Yeah, sure. Therefore, focus here. Now, we're talking about what kind of business, because there's business that can be put in the service of money or in the service of people, in the service of the economy, in the service of the common; it's all business, and it's also a matter that we debate and agree, because not all objectives will match. We will also agree that self-employed workers have enormous comparative hardships in their working conditions in relation to employed workers and, therefore, need to improve them; here we will agree. Now, we will also take advantage, some of us, to make another debate, that it is to denounce the claim of representativeness that of the collection make some people, making public display every time that they speak of the word "entrepreneur" and of the word "autonomous", but that they do not provide measures that allow the country to have a model of work with rights, with guarantees, with decent wages, but approve labor reforms that they have done is to cause deregulation, wage cuts, and that, obviously, in this case, which is more harmed by the backwardness of the line, than in the case that they are occupied by the autonomies. Therefore, despite the reticence I have expressed at the beginning, which I believe you have seen that I have been demonstrating at length throughout the intervention, despite the conviction that we will not make a great collective contribution to the country for lack of time, lack of means and skills to do so, despite all this, it is clear that there are elements of debate that need to be made and there are elements that can allow us to come to shared conclusions that can favor this collection. And in this we commit ourselves, to work in the measure of our possibilities, and that is why we will, logically, vote in favour of the proposal that we have tabled from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, number 40, in this Parliament. President, Counsellor, Counsellor, many thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.73.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.74.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, we're deputies and, consequently, our task is to legislate, when it comes to; to control government action, in this case the parties we don't collect, and to push government action, which is a shared task for all regardless of whether we are in groups that collect the government or not. And this is a commission that has above all the function of pushing, pushing a government that is not properly accountable. I will not go further, because the previous interventions have already expressed this clearly: the rules of resolutions, motions and more parliamentary mechanisms to talk about self-government and entrepreneurs are spectacular, and the government's response has always been shy and weak. This commission, therefore, must be a more alert touch, a way of introducing into the political government's agenda that it has not promoted so far, especially if we take into account that the latest data presented in the press are quite worrying. Before it was made reference, and I agree, to parties that are almost non-existent by themselves, but it is, for example, that the business game goes from 47_million_i_mig to 46.3, it is 1.2 million_less euros, that someone may think it is not barbarism, but it is clear that when it is said that social spending is increasing this perfectly reflects the government's priorities in the measure that there is no better social policy, in short, than employment, and we are talking about occupation. In any case, this committee must also serve us, and I am speaking on behalf of the People's Group, in order to make many of our proposals, such as being able to initiate activities with a responsible declaration prior to the formalization of the claim; this has as its main objective that it is an obstacle to the rapid establishment of the enterprise and to be able to generate employment. It will be a commission where we can analyze the single business window – years and years, and the thing has not just taken off properly. Or it will be a commission, actually, where we can look at how to combat the phenomenon of false self-government – also if it has made reference before, in the intervention of the socialist spokesman. And here, therefore, the Ciutadans Group, since it has offered to lead the committee, will surely be able to bring us some experience of false self-government, in this case, bad practice, because we can analyze it conveniently. In short, this commission should also serve to make a teaching mike, pedagogy of the culture of autonomous entrepreneurship, pedagogy of the expert. I say this because there has also been some intervention that, in the end, as that said, "with these friends, why do I need enemies? You have to think a lot of autonomous people after you've heard the representative of Catalonia. Yes, it's Pot. Who are these values that some now think are in fashion? Culture of effort, economic freedom, economic growth as a guarantee of occupation, and occupation as a guarantee of social policies; thread in turn, the values that have always held the autonomies, and that are, also to say, the values of the People's Party of always. Therefore, progress is made that we will participate in an enthusiastic and intense manner in this committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.75.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Next, the words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.76.0	Well, thank you. A couple of weeks ago he was visiting the Geographer David Harvey, who, therefore, has been holding his conference enough, because from a very authoritative voice he also had a critical point of view about tourism and the city model. But Harvey's trajectory, therefore, is not based solely on the analysis of tourism, but rather on the framework in which he has devoted himself to doing his utmost, which is to analyze the transformations of capitalism in the last forty years, and, therefore, the outcome of societies like ours and the way they have, and why so. And one of the things that explains is that the economic model that we are living today is the result that, at a certain historical moment, neoliberalism and capital, therefore, were established, they decided that the world of work had an excess of respect for capital and that, therefore, both Reagan and Thatcher, like all their left-overs, directed their policies to challenge this balance that had been given over a few decades and to discipline the world of work. And that's mainly the result, so let's talk about what we're talking about here all the time, huh? : displacements, de-industrialisation and tressement of the old large production centres into hierarchical networks of customers and suppliers. And this is also the fruit of the expansion of the world of autonomies. In the economies of capitalism developed like ours, which one day were jobs today are small businesses or are autonomous. And in this way, therefore, the great capital was a good share in wages and social protection, scattered that uncomfortable labor concentration that facilitated the union struggle and the conquests of rights in the central epoch of the 20th century. And obviously the problem is that all this has obviously been accompanied by a process of precariousness. Paradoxically, for this reason, and in some of the interventions that preceded me, so, too, the ideological construction of this sector of self-ideality has come to an end, has it not? , emprendoria; idealize these small businesses as if they were drawn, therefore, from what was previously called the "little bourgeoisie". The very title of the commission contributes a little to this confusion, doesn't it? , "business and self-government, when we sometimes refer to business from the point of view of a furnace of bread to the point of which a large company has set up, do we not? It contributes to this confusion. But the truth is that the majority, the majority of autonomies do not cease to be part of the working class, which has replaced the old patterns for customers who make these charges and pay them. And in many cases, therefore, they are these dependent autonomies. Moreover, a study commission on autonomes will also have to deal with those autonomes that are autonomes but want to stop being autonomes; it is to say, the false autonomes, which have already been pointed out here, and which, in the name of data, therefore, CTAC-UGT calculates that around 30_percent of the nine highs in the autonomes are of this profile of false autonomes. And that the last few years we've had at least two great examples of fighting in the sector, huh? : the victory of the bad tide of Movistar's subcontracts and a struggle that still lasts today, which is that of the meat and false cooperative sector, isn't it? So, workers who once were, for example, employees, workers of a municipal escort, and who today are happy locals who are going to buy the gallows and who obviously don't have to do it for the bass or for the holidays, don't they? This must be seen, therefore, as a result of the great internal diversity of the sector, this is the challenge of the study committee. This diversification, which was precisely the one that sought capital and neoliberalism when it promoted the changes with which intervention began, this diversification, therefore, makes it difficult for the sectors to claim unity, makes union difficult, makes it difficult for them to have their own voice in the political debate about the measures that affect them and how they can improve. Therefore, we propose to the committee of study to be rigorous in the analysis of this social sector, to give a look to the various voices that reflect different realities, and, consequently, to propose concrete and non-generic policies that foresee the impact that they have on fiscal recovery, on the redistribution of wealth, and as a priority the struggle against precariousness and on social rights. And we will vote in favour of the establishment of the study committee. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.77.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Next, the words of Mr. Jordi Munell, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.78.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. Well, the theme that you're looking at is a theme, as you've seen, in fact, in previous interventions, important, it's a theme that awakens passions, awakens vehemence. Why? Because it is a subject, in the economy and in Catalan society, important enough. Yesterday we had figures, we gave them to the councillor, almost 550,000 people on condition or with the affiliation of autonomes to social security. So, it's a crucial economic reality, vital for the economy of the country and for what it's supposed to be, huh? We always understand self-government... and we also fight this issue of false self-government, obviously, but we always have self-government as the synonym of the entrepreneur, huh? , a person with impenetrableness, with imprendedoria. This DNA from the Catalan economy, if we look at it from a lot of history, huh? , is the entrepreneur that at these times the legal formula and the economic formula that it has, legally, is to become autonomous. And it embodies, precisely, therefore, this initial fact, in fact, of many of the businesses, small, large, medium, that there is in our country. Therefore, as we say, it is an essentially important issue, in Parliament it has passed continuously, passes: questions, questions. Yesterday we had one; the councilwoman explained to us what is being done with the « Catalunya Empren, this 20_million gift..., here we also listen to groups of opposition that is insufficient... In fact, always..., we also think: it's never enough, never much, obviously, because it's a particularly crucial sector as we say before, huh? He was also talking to us about these thirty-seven territorial advisors who will have the territory just to help entrepreneurs to become autonomous and engage in entrepreneurial initiatives, and therefore, as we say, is an essential element in the Catalan economy. As we said before, some see that it's nothing or it's just a little while ago, some see that we do it but it's a little while ago, because we don't have any more resources and we want more, huh? In any case, this brings us, therefore, to create this commission, which I have just studied if what is done is enough or is to be done more, and as is to be done more, where are the resources to come from, and, on the other hand, also combat those practical evils that may also exist in this world, huh? So I wanted to put up a manifesto, too, so, some words that have already been served here. When we speak of the entrepreneur, of the autonomous, also the culture of effort, the sleep has been said; I would add, also, in good part, therefore, the risk, the adventure, but also the experience of overcoming, the creativity, the resilience, the perseverance, applying a talent or a skill that has a very same, eh? and, therefore, continue to insist on this synonym, right? , self-employed as an entrepreneur, and finally as entrepreneurs, and therefore as a key factor in the economy of our country and in the model of our country. This committee, therefore, that we push that it is believed, some have seen it, too, with a lot of passage and others possibly with a certain unbelief, that we expect it to change at the length of the work of the committee, yes we are convinced, we are, that it will be able to take action and that it will be able to push even all legislative changes, which is the work, too, of the parliamentarians that we are in this chamber, eh? Therefore, to promote everything that makes reference to improving; to raise entrepreneurial culture in the world of school is already being done; to do, obviously, much more, up to university; as can be done policies that stimulate precisely, therefore, the step this of..., when someone has the..., to think to be entrepreneurial, the step to do it; therefore, the model of advice and information; facilitated. Also study the situation of start-ups in Catalonia; which proposals can be made face-to-face. To evaluate and improve the programme« Catalunya Emprên. To internationalize, also, these micro-enterprises, the enterprises of the autonomies. To think also what can be improved, still, of the whole system of incubators and accelerators of entrepreneurs that we have in our country. Of course, to review the Statute of Autonomous Work; here, surely, therefore, it will touch us, too, stall us, discuss us with the central government, with the work of our parliamentarians there. The subject of contributions, social contributions; the benefits of self-employment; problems, as they have already manifested themselves: maternity, lower pensions, the final thought. The issue of guaranteeing the collection of invoices to the autonomes, huh? So, the theme, also part-time autonomies, huh? So, fronts to study and debate and to look for better proposals are a lot, aren't they? The subject of progressive taxation, as billing increases. Another important issue, administrative simplification, of which there is much talk, but which also has to come to the creation, therefore, of..., at the heart of enterprises by entrepreneurs, eh? Or the theme – it was also said before – that autonomies can participate, too, huh? in the discussion, therefore, of social issues or issues of legislation or competition at the country level. As we've already mentioned before, so have we, completely agreed...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.79.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.80.0	...to analyze the case of the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.81.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.82.0	.... false autonomies – and I'm already running out –, huh? And so, so, we want a country, and in this committee we want to work there, huh? , that is an ecosystem in which entrepreneurs and self-employed people can be born, grow and reproduce, because it is a basic model for the economy of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.83.0	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Vidal, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.84.0	Yes; for allusions, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.85.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.86.0	It was for Mr. Alejandro Fernández... no, who talked about the deputy of Catalonia Yes, it's Pot, I think it's me... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, he did. All right. No, no, I mean, the interpretation that can make autonomies about who their enemy is or not, I don't know, it's the same. In any case, what I'm pretty convinced of is that 70 per cent of autonomies who say they are by necessity know perfectly well that their main obstacle is the Phariseeism of the People's Party, that while with one more defense, let's say, with the other hand what it does is to deregulate the labor market and precisely favor the big companies that subcontract them in the worst possible conditions. Thank you. [[Greetings. Alejandro Fernández Álvarez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.87.0	Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.88.0	Contradictions. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.89.0	Thirty seconds, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.90.0	Nor caldran, thirty-seconds. No, just to advise the honourable Member to grab the data from the Social Research Centre's inquiries and see the percentage of vote between the autonomies of his party: not voting them or the Tato. So, this is the phone book to analyze who's picking up who. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.91.0	We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We put to the vote the motion for a resolution creating a specific committee to study entrepreneurship and self-government. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution establishing a specific committee for the study of entrepreneurship and self-government was adopted by 123 votes in favour, against and against. The session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.92.0	It's part of the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Catalan audiovisual communication space]] [[302-00089/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following motion for an inquiry to the Government on the Catalan audiovisual communication space, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To introduce her, has the word Mr. Albert Botran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.93.0	Well, thank you. It's a complicated time, this one. They explain that Ronald Reagan said if there was any emergence the awakening, even if he was reunited with his government. Sometimes in the plenary I think we should say: "If there is anything important in the plenary, wake me up, even if I am in the plenary. Today's is an important issue, we are talking about the Catalan area of audiovisual communication and we have articulated it around four major areas of demand. The first is the recognition, therefore, of the people who have struggled to see TV3 and, therefore, to make of it something more than an autonomous channel, but a tool of internal articulation of the entire Catalan linguistic community. In the case of the Valencia Country, the struggle is much more known because it has also been much harder to oppose, historically, the State and its allies, and that is why we ask, for example, that in negotiations to restore emissions also incorporates this civil society, this associated tissue that has followed the nerve to maintain emissions in the Valencia Country. In other territories the fight is smaller, it's less known, but that's not why it's less important. Without this fight, therefore, today there would be many fewer people who would consider TV3 and Catalonia Radio their televisions and radios of reference. So, in the first place, recognition. In second place, guarantee coverage. Politically, this means reciprocity agreements with other governments, and technically, it means, therefore, small adaptations that would allow it. In the third place, guarantee contingencies that reflect the conjunct of Catalan speaking lands. It was a coincidence that on these days, between which we made the inquiry and we worked the motion, so there were, for example, chapters of the great dictatorship territories, with contestants from the Ponent Strip, the Valencian Country, the Islands, the Northern Catalonia. So, well, we talk about things like this. We feel that a spectator of Perpinyá, to put the case, feels as reflected, to the extent possible, on these televisions and radios, as we feel the people we live in strict Catalonia. That is why, specifically, in the case of Catalonia North we have defended, therefore, co-responsibility, and that is why we have also defended the possibility of territorial disconnection, as it exists in other areas of the Principality. It is also related to contingencies, the presence of the occident, which, therefore, claims the organized community and the associated movement occident. And work so that we can all see the same, all the linguistic domain can see the same contents of TV3, the same contents of IB3, the same contents of the future public television Valencia. And, finally, the most strategic proposal, the creation of a council of the Catalan audiovisual communication space. Also later to the inquiry that we did, therefore, it was made an announcement through the Secretary of Communication for which, therefore, there would be a first joint production with IB3. So this seems intelligent to us, it seems to us a line of future to show what we are: a community of 14_million potential viewers and radio viewers than if we present ourselves as a single buyer, that if we join efforts in production, that if we coordinate in the broadcasts of all channels, therefore, be much stronger, whereas before you separate you already know that the jungle of junk, "will break it all a long time ago, that only one junk will not be romantic, Ramon Muntaner. To thank the disposition, finally, of the leading groups to negotiate, and to aggravate, above all, the work of the associated movement Cultural Action of the Valencia Country, Voltor and the Balearic Cultural Work, the Federation of Entities of the Northern Catalonia, the Platform for Language and Links for Language, with whom I have, therefore, tasted to collaborate to elaborate it. And in the end, that this young man is turned into reality depending on the priority given to him by the government. This also depends on how much the UPC is insisting on, and is so, but above all how intense is the claim of those who are at the front line of this objective. You two are the legitimate beneficiaries of these demands, make yourselves - yours and that the government, therefore, considers the commitments that you have made today against the vote on this motion to be a priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.94.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Next, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Ms Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.95.0	Thank you, President. Well, thank the UPC for the presentation of this motion because it is always good at any occasion to put the importance of the communication media as diffusers and as divulgators, also from the language, and, therefore, as we understand culture, as we understand society, as we understand the world, which is also represented with the language, and obviously, the historical and cultural reality of the territories that are part of the Catalan linguistic domain. That said, a little 'but to the title of the motion, because we understand that talking about 'the Catalan audiovisual communication space would be much wider. We are talking, basically, on this particular part of this space, about the communication media of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation and the public media of the other Catalan speaking countries. But there is no reference to local media, for example, which is a very important pot in our entire territory of the Catalan audiovisual communications space, or local or territorial television channels, or community media, or the Catalan News Agency, is there? For us, this is the Catalan area of audiovisual communication. It's a small but very semantic, but, well, let's take advantage of it to put it in value, huh? , all this multiplicity of media we have in the Catalan audiovisual communication space. Going to the content of the motion, and especially of our papers. The points that we have made are basically the points that the Language Platform has brought to us, to the various parliamentary groups, and that we have made ourselves because we fully share them, and therefore we understand that it was important, right? , that from citizen plataforms and language experts also intend to improve the texts of our motions, and we're not just talking about it from..., policies in the Parliament of Catalonia, and they were good contributions. We are grateful that they have been able to incorporate themselves with more and better materials, in fact, and, therefore, we will support not only the young person, who was already able to support him, but also the young person with the Juntes for the Yes and with these incorporated elements. But we also want to make a little warning of a danger, which is that, even though it has been matified with the documents, it is a young man who started from a certain principality of respect for the rest of the territories of the Catalan linguistic domain. Already at all points it was talked about in relation to the other territories of the Catalan language domain just making it arrive the communication media and the contents of the communication media of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. And, in turn, we believe in the importance – which has improved in the movement and finally remains reflected – of talking about this reciprocity and working from bi-directionality with the rest of the Catalan speaking territories and with their public communication means. We believe that this, precisely, is what gives them a power, resources and public audiovisual media in all these territories, this reciprocity and this bi-directionality, and that, moreover, it is precisely what can make us improve the treatment of each other as equal from respect for the diversity that exists and also ideological diversity of their governments and the plurality of their communication media. It has been, in this sense, improved and, therefore, we value it, right? , which will remain an interesting young person who will allow us to take advantage of a historic opportunity that we have, especially, with the Valencian country and with the Balearic Islands, with us progressive governments in these two communities, which bet not only for the catalá, but especially for public services and, therefore, also for public communications services and for the enhancement of these communication media and these communication services from, also, this attempt to network with the Principality, with the Catalonians. And, therefore, with this respect and humility and with the consensus that we must work together, we understand that this can be, therefore, a new starting point for making better networks and better spaces, and better audiovisual communication spaces, both català and that of the rest of the Catalan speaking countries, in addition to synergies, in addition to contingencies and in addition to all that is good from the pluralism of each of our public networks. "Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.96.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the words of Mr Sergi Sabrià, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.97.0	Thank you very much, President. Council, in the first place, I begin to thank the presentation of the proposal by the CUP. It always seems important to us to talk about the Catalan linguistic domain and the Catalan audiovisual communication space. I think it is also essential to thank all the facilities that Mr Botran has given us in order to be able to negotiate, and also, from Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, the Mrs Ribas, to reach agreement. Also, and now they're not... I do see them, the people of the Language Platform, who have made better proposals to us, who are here today and we can approve them, and who, moreover, are accompanying us. To say now that we will vote in favour of all the points of this motion and that we are very pleased with its end result. For what it does to..., to make a rest for our exams, just to say that it seems to me that in any case they change the background, but that in some cases they do have better techniques and that, in others, what we want to reinforce is that you are clear about what TV3 has represented, what Catalonia Ràdio and the corporation have represented for the language during all these years and that, despite the fact that the young man who is able to do better and who remains to work for us, we all know that TV3_has been very important for the Catalan and that this recognition must be done every time that we have an opportunity, while we are demanding and that we still ask him more. In Catalonia, by experience, we know that communication media have been a very powerful tool to give knowledge of our language, we know how it has helped to normalize the català among thousands of people who have come from other places and who do not have it, or who do not have it as usual. A great job of the Catalan media, the public, the private, the national and the local, as Congresswoman Ribas also noted. Therefore, let us not deceive ourselves, if these media do not exist in other areas, it is also a way to offer the social use of our language in these territories. And, therefore, I insist that it is the responsibility of this Parliament to recognise the task, while continuing to work to strengthen the catalá throughout the media. I enter the text of the young man, put the hen's hair on me, and at the same time the hairs at the top, have to be made a recognizance of all those people who have fought since 1983 because TV3 can reach beyond the limits of autonomous Catalonia. The hen's hair for the work done, for how some have played it and how much they deserve this tribute. And in the end, one of those facts that if this was a truly democratic state, it wouldn't have to do it at all, play it, as it used to say, and probably not even the manhood because its struggle wouldn't have been necessary. But we have normalized until such time as we put the attack and the inn in constant question of our language, which no longer surprise us as much as we should be surprised. And it turns out that for more than thirty years, there have been entities and people who have had to fight to get Televisión from Catalonia to these areas. And despite this, despite all this struggle, despite the fact that we have the right and the law on our part, today, the last point of this motion has to urge the government to make management before Europe, because we are in 2016 and we do not complete the European directives on audiovisual products or the European Charter of Minority Languages – in 2016. Trist, but that's it. And put the hairs at the top. In any case, I would like to thank the Language Platform that we need to incorporate into it. And for the rest of the young man, two things to highlight. First, the dues, because we can certainly continue to advance even further with the occident, because we can strengthen the presence in Northern Catalonia, because we can do more in the coverage of the entire whole territory or in the presence of the different dialectal variants, and this remains, I think, well reflected to the motion. And also to insist on reciprocal agreements, on the permanent search for agreements with the different governments of the Catalan speaking territories. This is our way of guaranteeing emissions to all the territories, agreements on the part of public channels from the agreement between governments, which today we have to do as the autonomous community, which we will do as the state and already with the control of the whole spectrum. We understand that we can see, enjoy, consume, share these channels is a better cabdal that helps to vertebrate all this cultural market of expression in Catalan language and that, after this phase, it will be necessary to continue, it will be necessary to think more and better to coordinate the programming, to make joints and that we also create the organ because this can be done. And it stays pointed out here, but surely it will deserve a reason for this alone, which is the production of suitable products. Therefore, not only do we talk about buying, not only do we talk about doubling or subtitling in Catalan, but we do a lot more products in Catalan language, but this deserves a reason for itself and, therefore, we will do it for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.98.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, to fix his position, has the word Lord David Mejía, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.99.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, this motion presented by the CUP represents all the opposite of what we have in Ciutadans believe to be public media. This proposal lies at the front with the idea that we have independent media, that we are not independent, that they are governed by professional criteria, not political, and that they are respectful of the different sensitivities of our society. What is trying to shape this young man, from our point of view, is clearly an ideological approach to achieve the separatist expansion that some have as their objective. We cannot support an initiative which envisages guiding the editorial line of the public media of all Catalans to place them in the service of separatism. Actually, right now, they're already doing it in the different public channels of communication, and they're doing this propaganda paid for with the money of all Catalans. And with this young man, what do they want to do? Do you want to accentuate it more? Well, it seems to us that this is not the path. We believe that the way forward is, for example, to approve the proposal of law from our parliamentary group..., to approve the processing a few months ago or to include the proposals of law or other motions from different opposition groups, including the group proposing this young man, to push them forward. So this is the way we think we should go. Can you explain to us how you see the need for a greater presence of corporate programming in other Catalan speaking territories? Because all we see is an explanation, and it's about trying to use these means to serve expansionist nationalism. Why, can you tell us what is the finding that Catalans are more interested in what happens to southern France before what happens to Aragó, or what happens to Andalusia, or what happens to La Rioja? Why is it that it is a finding – that it is a finding – that there are more Catalans who have their origins in other parts and in other autonomous communities than French ones, for example, even though the Councillor..., Vice-President Junqueras says that we are assembling more genetically, right? (Applause.) Because you speak of the south of France as if it were Catalonia. We already know that what they are trying to find is a new diplomatic conflict with France, but with our parliamentary group they will not count on it. You, like politicians, want to tell the professionals what to do and what to say, conditioning their freedom. When they talk about this invention of the Catalan Countries, about this political reality that doesn't exist, have they come up or they care the least about those opinions that you want included in this territory? In other words, have you found that the citizens of the Valencian Community or of the Balearic Islands or of the South of France want to be part of this, let us say, political paranoia, when some of these already have their own autonomous televisions? Why don't you put your efforts into trying to improve the management of our media and make a television that is pioneering in its contents and that is also pioneering in the way of communication? Why don't they use – and why don't we use – existing resources to search for these objects, in which there is a vast majority to pull them forward? Look, our model of public media is clear and we have repeated it many times: we want plural media, with professional autonomy and neutrality, and not to condition or direct its line from political power. Therefore, we cannot support this young man, because, for us, we want the resources that we have for the corporation to serve in order to have the best autonomous public media in all of Spain; the most plural and those that have the best possible content, and not to use them as a channel of ideology propaganda and message control to serve a political project, which is what nationalism has been doing for a long time, and which has Pujol as it seems ideological. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.100.0	Thank you, Mr. Mejía. Mr. David Pérez, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.101.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, indeed, a language is above all also a certain way of seeing, hearing and interpreting the world, and that alone is worth preserving as one of our best heritages to preserve. Absolutely in agreement with the part of the motion of the four elements that Mr Albert commented: recognition of the people who have made it possible for TV3 to be seen outside our borders; forward; no problem. Two: the possibility that you can guarantee more content close to TV3, perfect; forward; no problem. Actually, we already did; that's already done. He stopped doing it for economic reasons, but, well, let's go back to what we already had, huh? I don't know if it's worth it since we're in Parliament permanently giving TV3 professionals the hours and minutes they have to do information, if I don't know where; I don't know. But, well, in any case, it is not the proposal that at this time makes the UPC to ensure more proximity. Reciprocated for what you do to the TV3 signal? Absolutely okay. This is the path: dialog, negotiation and pact. I works – and it works. TV3 began to talk to the Balearic Government: dialogue, negotiation and pact; with reciprocity. It's this path; it's the path that our president and spokesman of the parliamentary group saw the other day. We don't have to rush; we can negotiate, dialogue and agree with our surroundings, as we have always done; and I thank the members of the CUP who take this initiative. We need to talk to the people around us, talk, negotiate and agree, and that TV3 can be seen outside and that here we can see from other channels. I think they're short; I think they're short. I'd love to see TV3 in Madrid, too, with earlier, and Andalusia, and Galicia. And here we can see the Galician TV, the Andalusian TV. It is to say, today, that you pose television and it is so easy to see Al-Jazira, and we have so many difficulties to see from other channels; I don't understand. And this would be an authentic and genuine federal project, which can be seen as a television set across Spanish territory. But in any case, we agree: reciprocity with our surroundings and that TV3 can be seen in València, Aragó, Illes Balears, and here we can see these channels. Indeed, the set point has little to see with television, it generates some doubt; nor would we want it to generate some problem from the diplomatic point of view. In any case, I was not exclouing the corresponding ministries at the time of making these types of petitions. I insist, this point generates some kind of doubt. But in any case – and I finish – our public media are, at this time, in a very delicate situation – very delicate. We have the hearings that are the..., and today they have gone out; today they have gone out again; today, yes. [[Pause.]] Mr. Cuminal, they're back out of auditions; we're second and the distance with the first time each time is bigger. And what's worse – and what's worse –, huh? , the annual joint begins to peril. The audience is the worst of all TV3's story; we have a funding that has not just arrived, that has not just worked; we have a crisis of credibility, and above all, what is worse, a clamorous lack of pluralism in public media. You say, "Well, that's more of a proximity and that TV3 can be seen outside Catalonia. Perfect, forward. We are voting in favour, but we continue to think that it is worth guaranteeing pluralism to public television, because, if not, it is only a television of the people who like it, of the rope, of the independenceists, and the rest no longer see it. We would like to see more; we would like a programme contract that guarantees, let us say, the financial stability of public media television and, above all, we call for a pact with the country's audiovisual sector. We think that's what the country needs. But, in any case, I insist, we will vote for the CUP's proposal in the majority. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.102.0	Thank you, Congressman. The words of Ms. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.103.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs... the CUP is amazing. The CUP is able to move away from defending the equal opportunities of Catalans with middle and low incomes and yesterday vote against the fact that these middle and low incomes have a certain drowning in tax terms and not to vote in favour of lowering the IRPF, to our proposal, to those Catalans who are tight and who also suffer too high a tax on their capacities. He is able to start a motion by praising Reagan, though with a certain point of sorna. But what it is not capable of is to renounce what it is, in its essence, in the innermost part of its being. What do I mean by that? Finally, in this Chamber, let us say that the CUP represents the purest independence that exists in this Chamber. I was going to say chaste, but we're going to leave chaste. At least, purer. We could look at the motion and try to lose ourselves all over the joint, but we're not going to do it. Why? Because I think it is important that we know that this motion is preceded by an inquiry, an inquiry made by Mr Botran himself and where he explained the reasons for submitting this subsequent motion. And in that, then, explains very well what is the spirit, let us say, the spirit of the law, no, the spirit of this motion. And he says: "We defend the Catalan countries as political subjects and, from the linguistic and cultural perspective and the central role played by our media in audiovisual communication, we believe that it is important to encourage mass communication and, in its audiovisual scope, to play the language paper that corresponds to them. Well, that's what he says, what he says is that you want to promote a public Catalan audiovisual communication space so that it is at the service of the construction of your party interests. And as you will understand in this we will not be able to help you. Why? Because you are ultimately using TV3 to achieve your political ends and what precisely TV3 workers and the professionals who are part of TV3 need is to stop politically instrumentalizing TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio and, therefore, we are not going to be next to you with this motion. You want to use television broadcasts, in the end, as an instrument of independent pseudo-imperialism where you not only take advantage of the south of France – of the Catalonia Nord that you call it –, of Aragon – the Strip –, of Balearics and of part of Italy, with the Alguer, but also you intend to confuse what you are, in the end, the frequencies of broadcasting and how they work, with a certain imposition. Why do I say that? Because you talk about what happened with Channel 9, and so on, don't you? And you don't seem to know that frequencies are granted; frequencies aren't dealt with, which is what happened in the past. That there was a collaboration agreement with the Government of Camps at the time, in 2007, where there was a reciprocal signal between Canal 9 and TV3, and that agreement had to be ratified here, in this Plenary, and in the Valencian Courts. In the Valencian Courts it was made; here, by the art of birlibirloque, it was not made; it never arrived. Two, it is important that you begin to distinguish between what is an issue through a commercial channel and what is an issue through an international channel. While this agreement was not confirmed here, TV3 was broadcasting through a commercial channel, thus affecting Canal 9's advertising revenues, because advertising is contracted according to the target market for which that advertisement is intended. Moreover, it is curious that you make use of this precisely when reciprocity did not occur. And it did not happen precisely because there was a lack of political will here, not because Mr Camps' government did not have it. I know that there are other political parties that are going to vote in favour of this motion because they have already announced it to us here, but we will certainly not contribute, one, nor to the recognition of the Catalan Countries, which is a political entelequia, for political purposes, as a reality neither historical, nor legal, nor current politics. And, therefore, this motion will not count on our vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.104.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Then, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word "Mr. Albert Botran".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.105.0	Well, thank you. You don't sound so pure, do you? Mrs. Garcia, we're pretty petaners, normally, the independenceists. In any case, accepted the small ones, accepted the proposals of better that have been made to them, aggravating the positions that have been made in favor, some comments on the most repeated questions in the interventions and that affect the considerations on competitions and relations with other governments. We have accepted this criteria of prudence which was asked, therefore, especially since the Junts for the Yes exams, and which some other groups have also made reference. And on property rights, so, too. Now, to say that there are European cases, for example, so that the Language Platform backs to its web, where these contents can be seen across borders. Therefore, through agreements it can be done. Because that's not true that it's illegal, it's all an economic agreement. That's the case on that web, isn't it? Someone who saw Lugano, who is Switzerland, the Cantó de Ticino, can see Rai 1 and all the contents of Rai 1, and not Rai International, eh? And that's because there's an agreement, and that's it. And so, after us too, in the end, we wanted to keep the debate in some less ideological terms – that is not ideological that is impossible, but less ideological – a little more practical. That's why in the inquiry we also spoke of a community of interested people, because in the end the salvation of the catalan in any of its territories affects the assembly of Catalan speakers, right? From the lying territory, from the territories outside Catalonia, the entities ask for it. Therefore, it is not that we speak for anyone: it is that these entities ask for communication media in catalá. I, from Catalonia, this so-called "paranoia or political intelligence" turns out to generate more adherence than to the same Spanish. And this is the last CEO, the data he gave; he says: "How far does he feel attached to the following territorial areas, from 0 to 10? Well, to the Catalan language territories, in a 6.68, and to Spain, in a 5.76. Well, if one thing's a paranoia and an entelèquia, the other one doesn't even get up to it, you know? I wanted to keep the debate in those terms, less ideological, but neither do the safe havens, the ideological terms, and therefore it does not make any clear to us. Visit the Catalan Countries! I weigh them who I weigh them. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.106.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] There was no request for a separate vote. Therefore, we will vote on the motion together. [[Pause. Widow's remorse.]] We're voting for the lady. The vote begins. The motion on the Catalan audiovisual communication area was approved by 93 votes to 31, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into residential and day centre places]] [[302-00085/11]] The agenda item is: Motion following the question to the Government on residential and day centre places, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Mr. Raúl Moreno. [[Widow's remorse.]] Thank you for going out in silence and in a hurry. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.107.0	Well, thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, will advise, well, today we bring to this House the motion resulting from the inquiry that we made about fifteen days ago, on the situation of residential centres and day centres in our country, in Catalonia. I believe that this inquiry was very extensive, we were able to discuss, moreover, in a very constructive way, the problems and challenges that we have with the country in the face of our population's aging and the need to look for mechanisms that will ensure that we have good service from here to only nine years in order to meet the increase in the largest population of sixty-five years, which the Idescat jifra in about 300,000 more people. So, what we've done to this young man has been trying to pick up those things that we think it's very necessary to get in the way already. The first of these is to recover the universality of services linked to residences; benefits which they want and which they allow, in any case, is that people can sort out, among other things, the residence where they want to go; it is faster, because, more than that, you can be in a residence while waiting for a public residence to be free, and therefore it will allow us, as at least, if we put them all on the march, to reduce the 6,742 seats that at these times are empty in our country. Only..., since the year 2014 have ceased to give three_ thousand benefits of this type, and, therefore, if we were to keep the investment in services linked to residence, the situation at these times would be very different. For another band, we also urge the government to speed up individual care plans for people with degrees 2 and 3 of dependence, so that we try to speed up the time to offer them the services, not just the opinion of the degree of dependence, but the services that correspond to them. At these times, as we know and have already said, ninety-thousand people are on the waiting list, and if we follow the same pace we have at these times, we can cheat more than two years to leave this waiting list at zero. With this motion the Socialists also ask, we urge the Government to prioritise the occupation of public places of residence, in the first place, therefore, to open those which at these times are still closed, of public residence; also to do so in collaboration with the joints, and also to try to make a plan of investments that back them at once, once, which are the residences that are needed in Catalonia, where they are, in five municipalities and which priority we make so that the joints, that the citizens and citizens know which is the stake, which is the timetable for building the residences and day centres to which, among other things, the government has been compromised. We also need to make a more transparent system. The motion specifies that the Government will have to publish on its website the orientated waiting time to access one of the residents of Catalonia. This was approved three months ago, it didn't happen, and we give it three more months to be able to do it. I think... because, more than that, the data gave us in the interrogations; we only ask them that this is public and that, therefore, is done through the website of the department. The young lady reminds the Government, among other things, of the compliment of a young man who has already approved here the month of May, who in short what she says..., there are many points, too, in matters of security, in matters of maltreatment to the great people..., but one issue that concerns us very much, which is the law of the great people. In the next semester we have to present a proposal for the law of the great people; so we compromised ourselves. And it gives us the feeling that at these times the work is either not going very slow, but, as a matter of fact, we do not have any feedback, nor did we have any information from the inquiry, as they were. Therefore, we want and reiterate our commitment to this law. And, finally, thanks to Catalonia's contributions Yes, it is Pot – and after I assume that Mrs Marta Ribas will just comment on it – we urge this call of the commission to follow up on the promotion of personal autonomy and attention to dependence and, for another group, during this first half of 2017 will have to present the regulation of personal and technological assistance for people with functional diversity. All folded up, and by the end, this young man has gotten so many items together for the Yes, with which we have been able to deal some of the items. Also those offered by the CUP, who have above all to see with themes of terms, but also to collaborate with local authorities, councils and members at the time of doing all this new framework of relations for the construction and installation of day centres and public residences. Finally, also, two of the three issues that Catalonia has presented Yes, it is Pot and that end in this motion, that we hope, this time yes, that they are owed by the government and that it is done, and that there is no, after three_months, to return to this Parliament to ask for many of the things that have already been asked, because, among other things, we do not have an answer. And it's very easy to know if things are fan or not: just go out on the street and ask the people, and if the feeling is better, maybe something's going well. This is not the feeling we have at these times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.108.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to defend the papers presented has the word of the candidate Gabriela Serra, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.109.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President; thank you, Members of Parliament. Thank you to the Socialist Group for your statement. In the first half of 2016, 804 great people attended for the Mosso d'Esquadra; 548 are women; 101 are people with repeated attacks. First half of 2013: firefighters find fifty people great sun deaths at home. 2015 Generality data: 27,000 large people at risk of abuse, 15,500 complaints, 0.8_percent of the large people; only one_of_each_deu is reported to the police. With these data, one question is in which society we are living and in which society we are, isn't it? And, therefore, in view of these facts, if the proposal put forward by the Socialist Party was good enough, that is almost a compliment. It's a lot of spooks, it's a lot of freaks. Especially when one like me is about to complete sixty-five years and become a big person, right? So, that scares a little bit. It says the Charter of Human Rights that the great people should have five important thematic principles: dignity, independence, self-realization, assistance and participation. But all of this is shared in so many laws, in so many decrees, in so many PRs and in so many motions that we especially applaud so much that finally, in the first half of 2017, we can have, as the company Raúl of the PSC claimed, this proposal for the law of the great people. Because this dignity, this independence, self-realization and assistance we have so distributed that we would have to compact them into a block of rights, into a block of compliments, into a block of demand. And why? So, that's why it's important sometimes, even though it seems anecdotal, to put concrete dates; that's why it's necessary to put between the first quarter or between such, because, if not, we never know when the three_months pass and when the four pass and when the five pass. That's why we've had an interest in putting it down, because we're going to demand that these terms are full and we're going to demand that this is taken forward. Now well – and I finish – we will greet that this is discussed by this law, and we will greet it in a very deep way. Why? Because we believe that we are..., the immediate future that presents itself is a little desolating; desolating in the sense that we are breaking the criteria of opportunity of these great people if we do not take it, we are breaking and we are disaggregating in such a way the rights of the great people that in the end what we are doing is breaking and almost deserting from a series of responsibilities that society and the community have with the great people. We need to talk about many more things; we need to talk, for example, that the majority of people who die at home by accident are for the poor energy of the great people, it is for energy problems. So, we need to talk, about all these things, we need to talk. Therefore – and I finish – we greet deeply that this was put down. But above all we salute for point 10; for point 10, you say that you apply the previous and that you are finally carrying this bill of law of the great people to make it possible once and for all that this dignity, this independence, self-realization, attendance and participation is a reality. Maybe what we approve of today is one more step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.110.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Serra. [[Gabriela Serra Frediani intervenes without using the microphone. Rialles.]] Thank you very much. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word Ms. Anna Figueras, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.111.0	Well, thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... Mr Moreno, a little more, before a motion of dependence, a little more before a motion that leaves the frail of that law, of the LAPAD, of the law of dependence, that seemed to have to resolve everything and that what he actually did was nursed and filled, let us say, with false expectations to many people; a law that was more than anything else, therefore, was designed, let us say, poorly dimensioned, as badly dimensioned as ill or under-pressed. And a law that in its origin already contained co-payment, didn't it? ; that it contained, moreover, let us say, for the support, for the sustainability of the same law. But, said that, Mr. Moreno, congratulations. Congratulations because you must be happy today. We'll approve a motion in its entirety – a motion, let's just say so, huh? There, self-fulfilling or self-satisfaction – two points, if any of you know that you are implementing and have already approved. And so, therefore, listen to me, more than anything else, thank you all, thank you for your predisposition and your will, let's just say, of course. But let's say, in these other four points in which, therefore, they bring a bit of novelty, you do the same thing that you always do, that it's asking priority and that priority over all the government, but you prioritize everything, everything, everything, that means you don't prioritize the king. So, let's go to earth, so, with each of the points. Points 1 and 2, on the universality of the ENPs, related economic benefits, and the presuppositional endowment to achieve it, let's say, 2017. We're late, we're late, listen, and it won't be by its own volition, let's say, of some parliamentary group like Junts for the Yes. If we had, we no longer approved, but discussed, dealt with the 2016 assumptions, we would now have a lot of work done on this, and you know it. And about universality, tell them that we – you know – won't make pigeons fly: universality? , yes; get it back? Yeah, but gradually, huh? I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. because it is true that resources have grown, but they are the ones who are, and because, moreover, the current volume of commitments that the groups, let's say, parliamentarians urge to take through the assumptions, therefore, passes, and much more so, any of the presupposition scenes that we can present. That's it, isn't it? the ability, therefore, to follow him prioritizing everything. Look, no; we, therefore, do not have this ability yet. Point 3, we urge the government to realize the PIAs in three months. Listen to me, okay, but it must be made clear that the government is not only involved here, but also that social services are involved, and that, therefore, it is a good coordination, a better understanding, with local authorities. And in this, then, we've made them some ideas. Points 4, 5 and 6, listen to me, you know they're being implemented. For example, you said, more than that, "That the waiting list is reduced to half. I remember the counselor explaining it to them. Now he said 90,000; the other day they gave us 24,000 people on the waiting list. And you know that not all these people are on the waiting list. The persons, when they access, tell, or request a residence, do not request one, in solicit two or three. Therefore, in the assumption, in the worst case scenario, we would be 50_per_cent of this waiting list that you say. I, more than that, oh surprise! When a phone call is made and all these people are called, it turns out that there are nine thousand people who say they don't want this resource anymore, because they're already attached. So, man, let's talk, let's say, from knowledge and above all with sincerity. Point 7: "Elaborate a specific plan for the construction of nine residences. The councillor told them clearly: the government will even and will serve people through the concertation of places, the collaboration of places and the creation of ENPs. It is predicted, and you know it, both in the assumptions of 2016, 2017, as in the territorial programming of social services. Point 9 and point 10. Tell them that since October the department has already started the coordination table both with the ACM and with the Federation of Municipalities to deal, let's say, the request for increase of places, and that, moreover, the compliment of the Moció 46/XI, therefore, listen to me, will be presented in time and form at the same time, when the term ends, let's say, for the compliment of this young man. To finish, and fear that today, therefore, some groups reproduce some false report that yesterday, therefore, has already appeared in this hemisphere, that I believe that it is written from La Moncloa, and, escort, let me say them - I do not see them here, but, in any case... – in that case, let them say that they are not fooled and that they verify the data; vaginate the Court of Auditors and explain that the norma_mil..., that yes, that there have been norma_mil people; they are noranta_mil people who, thanks to the efforts of the Generality, have been focused on topics of dependence. And let's go to La Moncloa and explain to them that if you had been for the Spanish State's effort, there would have been more than fifty-thousand people who hadn't been attending. So, listen to me, the resources of the Spanish State aren't that they're... it's not that they're minvat, no, it's that they're falling free. And speaking of rights, which we're talking about now, and finally, when we're talking about rights, we all know that satisfying people's rights is closely linked to the availability of economic resources. Catalonia generates enough resources to improve, and a lot, people's attention. Let's stop putting on wheels, some of us; let's put the dependency back together, and we manage all our abilities. Catalans have a lot of skills. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.112.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word Ms Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.113.0	Thank you, President. I believe that everyone can agree that the waiting list, whether it is 24,000 people or 12,000, is unacceptable; it is unacceptable that there are 12,000, 10,000 or 24,000 people waiting for a place of residence. I think we can all agree that it is unacceptable that the waiting time is years, as I recognized it will advise the committee the other day. The data here also differ: the department says it's under four years old and the entities in the sector say it's over four years old. As it goes, we're talking about waiting years to get access to a residential square. I think we all have to agree that this is unacceptable. We should all agree – we will not – that it is also unacceptable that funding by the State of the Law of Dependence has been cut to half. But we should also agree, and neither would we be – and here I look at it from the other side – that what is also unacceptable is that what has doubled in these years, from 2008 to 2015, in which the State has reduced to half the funding of the Law of Dependency, which has doubled – and it is the data that gave the department the other day – is the contribution of the users and, therefore, the co-sponsorship of the services of Dependency. I think we need to give some thought to the subject of dependence. Appreciate the PSC's motion, and Mr. Raúl Moreno's motion, for power, isn't it? But there's a lot more to talk about, we're constantly dealing with it, there's a lot of thinking to do, and, therefore, it's a lot and a lot of need for you to really be sure that you're making a personal law of autonomy in Catalonia. With regard to these two themes that we highlighted, we made specific statements to add them to this young man. A theme respects co-payment, which is what has not been incorporated into the three themes that we have made. Because, all we are defending is that this co-payment is eliminated, that we are going to a model that eliminates this co-payment, that we have, in fact, set up in this matter is no longer, nor is that, but only the gratuitousness of the non-hotel side, so to speak, of residential places, and a greater progression on the hotel side, that the wealth of the user in the amount of economic capacity for this co-payment, and the elimination of topalls on the price of the service to calculate this co-payment, is out. They are elements that are basically more progressive in the part of the residence of what is the Law of Dependence. We will continue to fight it; no, we do not fully agree with these criteria with the Socialist Party, and therefore does not join, but we will continue to fight it as a parliamentary group. Yes, the other two points that we have made in this review are incorporated, in turn, a little further, and it is obvious that we can give an answer– and, therefore, we will vote in favour of all the points of the PSC motion – to this waiting list for residential places, to this excessive time of waiting list for residential places, to this need for transparency in this waiting; but also to re-think what needs to be done. And one of the tools we already have to do this review is that of personal assistance. And we need a regulation of personal assistance to actually facilitate this service to people with functional diversity; a service that is much more emancipating for people with functional diversity; that, moreover, it is the release of family caregivers of truth, and that, moreover, it is an incorporation into the ordinary economy of a subject that currently exists, but exists from the submerged economy. And as long as we don't rule out it, we won't be making it easy to access this tool that exists and is not being used in our country. And the other point that we have made, and that is also incorporated, is that of the follow-up committee for the promotion of personal autonomy and attention to dependence; the need that is gathered, that has not been gathered for years and that would be very necessary in this global issue so much on the residential issue, but also more there; that it is gathered and immediately. And that's why we're setting up a term that's before the year's over. Only one last point. Of all the points of the PSC motion, which, as I said, we will all vote in favour, we want to highlight one, given the question of the other day. There is a plan of investments set up together with the local world, with priorities that we really need to still bet on building residential places; we need to do it already and we need to do it well. I say for the strong statement that she did the advice in the inquiry that there will not be a euro for everyone on this issue, and that I believe that the last few days have had to be retraceable in some of the cases that we have for the territory that claim to the one that actually calls some euro for everyone, also for public residences and places for the territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.114.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The words of Mrs Elisabeth Valencia, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.115.0	Thank you, President. Consellera, Members, Members, I would like to begin my speech by referring to the founding values for which Ciutadans was born and we are also defending today in all the democratic institutions in which we are represented: the defence of equality, social justice and democratic regeneration. The institutions are designed to serve the general interest of citizens, with particular attention to guaranteeing the rights of the most vulnerable people in society: children and the elderly. As it cannot be otherwise, we support the motion of the PSC, which presents the PSC ; among other things, it asks to end the waiting list that we have in Catalonia in residences. When the legislature began we asked a parliamentary question to know the exact number of people who had been waiting for residential remedy in Catalonia, and the Government replied that we had twenty-four_ thousand people waiting for residence. In Catalonia we have also known that we have six_ thousand empty places of residence that would help considerably, we consider, to reduce this waiting list. In Spain the average pension is 930_euros and the non-contributory pension is four hundred. We ask ourselves: "Given the lack of residential resources, what solution do these people on the waiting list have? Stay at home. These people, we think the only solution they have is to be in their homes. They are in their homes because they cannot pay a private residence that in Spain has a cost, an average price of 1,850_euros. This, from our point of view, is to leave our elders in the gutter, turn their backs. We want our elders to be looked after. You will say: "There is an investment in budgets – which you have recently presented in this chamber –" in residential resources. And I ask them: "How much will they be able to reduce the waiting list? These budgets fail to reverse the cuts made by the government that led Mr. Mas in 2011 in social policies. We remind them that in 2011 when the cuts began we had 17_1,000 people on the waiting list waiting for residence and now we have 24_1,000, according to the answer given to our parliamentary group. We've gone straight to worse. Councilwoman Bassa explained to us in her appearance that the State does not cover the percentage of funding of the Dependency Act. We have already anticipated and reiterated to you that this co-financing is fixed within the scope of the meetings held between the Autonomous Communities. We do not understand that they complain if Mr Puigdemont is not going to the conference of presidents. We have to go where it takes to defend social justice and the state of well-being. We also want to talk about the system of territorial organization of residential resources. There is a clear difference depending on where the residence is requested. We have also received in this Parliament both municipal corporations and associations of neighbours and civil society organizations, in short, who ask the Government to meet the needs of their residents in their populations. It is of little use for us in this Parliament to adopt resolutions if this Government does not carry out efficient resource planning. In Barcelona, for example, we have, according to a question that our parliamentary group has asked, a waiting list of six_ thousand people, in the first city of Catalonia. This is clearly the result of inefficient resource management. Barcelona, Sabadell, Santa Coloma are cities with high population density and whose residential needs are not covered. Behind every data, behind every priority, behind every government action are citizens. It is the dignity of the life of our elders, that of their families and loved ones that is at stake. On the other hand, requests for dependency benefits are not being effectively managed. We have introduced a law in this regard. We need more transparency for citizens to know what waiting list they have. They have had to ask you again when this waiting list will be published on the department's website. Counsel, if we do not have data, we will hardly be able to correct public policies. Finally, I would like to reiterate my support for the Socialist Party's motion because we need unity in order to defend the rights of our elders. And we call on the Government to work efficiently to guarantee these rights. We do not need state structures or seek competences that we do not have, we need to use our self-government and competences to defend the interests of Catalans. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.116.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The words of Ms. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.117.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor, Members, Members..., well, thank, first of all, so, this young man who presents us today with the Socialist Party and, concretely, the Deputy Moreno, because..., well, here is a concern that we all have – all of us who are here today – and that is the degree of aging that our people have, right? All the population charts show that the average age here, and in general throughout the State, is the highest in the European Union; that life expectancy has increased in recent years and..., a fact that, obviously, is very positive, isn't it? But also that this, therefore, supposes or has some effects, directly affects our welfare system, our social welfare model. And we all know – the government also knows, don't we? , you know perfectly well – the special effort of spending that involves a population every time bigger. But more than looking at it as a difficulty, I think we also have to look at it as an opportunity, in a positive way, don't we? It's not a problem, it's an opportunity. I think we need to be optimistic before the population gets older. In front of the challenges, in front of the problems, if we approach them correctly, they can also become opportunities. And, in this sense, I think we have to make a big bet to develop an entire economic sector and an innovation camp in..., well, in terms of innovation and in terms of research and industry, right? I can bet firmly on a social service model at the third age, which I... well, I'd sum it up in three points, wouldn't I? Three key points. The first is the issue of social inclusion: we cannot allow the 60-year-olds to be caught up in comets, can we? At home as if they were more furniture than our home. We can't afford it. Secondly, it is a clear model, giving the possibility of good home care, isn't it? , treat people in a personalized way. And, in the third place, it is a powerful system of residences, where it is handled in a personalized way and where concrete and specific needs are met. Okay. With more than 3,000_million additional assumptions, we have to guarantee – I think we are obliged to guarantee – that care for the great people is a priority. We are concerned that there is an important, very important, point in the departure for the ENPs; she would like to say so. Besides, it's got to be better in numbers, too... I think we need to make a great effort to improve in the quality of care, of that attention I gave him, right? , which has to be customized because each person is a world, and therefore, in the band of the quantity, what is to be improved is the quality. And that's why, too, we need to get into the question of the routes: we need to improve the current routes. And we ask, please, that from the government no longer accuse the citizens of the increase of waiting lists to the residents or to the day centres day after they ask for a place long before they touch them. That's all they say, because that's not what you're saying, but it's because you don't know, or you haven't known, how to manage, so, really, the centers that are there right now, right? And, therefore, they do not want to excuse themselves from the city, which is not to blame. What do we find? So it has already been said: thousands of empty seats and thousands of people in waiting lists. What a surprise, isn't it? I say again: let us celebrate a motion that proposes very concrete, very concrete measures of attention and transparency. People need to know when they will get it because uncertainty generates anxiety. We need to speed up procedures. It can't be that it's too late to do a grade review, for example. I'm done, aren't I? We are convinced that, before the demand for residential places, we need to make this investment plan for the construction of new residences and day centres, but the first thing to do is to make those centres that we already have, public or private, viable, and that in their day, therefore, they made an investment, they went up, and that now, therefore, Roman empty because they are not concerting places, right? We also ask in a special way that the government completes the terms that are marked in this motion, because, if not, it will not serve anything that is approved today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.118.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. Then, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Mr. Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.119.0	Well, thank you, President. As long as I have a little time, I'll be quick. To thank all the interventions and, therefore, this broad agreement that we have reached respects the points that are important. To the lady, to the deputy Anna Figueras, therefore, for the sake of her intervention. I'd like to remind you of a few things. I already know that you the Law of Dependency never liked them. Actually, they voted against it, huh? And so his model is more of a private model, maybe, huh? In any case, what would be hot is that we define ourselves as. Because, if we stick to the results of these years, to the investments that you have made, I must remind you that, for example, for residency-related benefits, the assumption failed in 2006 was less money for residency-related benefits than in 2015. So that's what you've been working on and we're doing and we're working on... man, that's not known, and among other things, that's from the numerical point of view you don't have a translation. I will make it clear the data: 90,000 people who expect an aid from dependence, a benefit from dependence, not only from residence, of any kind. You've got years of waiting list, like Canarias, because we're making a laugh. And, if not, look at the report of the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services, which they will say. Twenty-four thousand people on the waiting list. Don't ask me how many there are. You let me know, didn't you? Well, all right. And, above all, don't tell them, and before Congresswoman Marisa Xandri did too... the secretary general said in committee that people aim indiscriminately at residents. And it's been so wide. People don't aim indiscriminately at residents! People point ahead of time because they know that they have four years of waiting or three years of waiting until they place them and, therefore, they point to them so that they don't run out of place. Because when I find it difficult to choose, precisely, the residence that is at the side of his house. So, it's not... it's not indiscriminately targeted. And if you have to count three times, make a DNI list of concrete people who are asking for the waiting list. As it is – as it is – the normal thing is that in this country people need to know how much they have to wait to get into a public service. And when we end up with this way of doing, which we never know exactly who the concrete data are, we may begin to have much clearer who is the way we need to go; but with this little transparency that you have in your homes and day centers...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.120.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.121.0	Honestly, let's not go anywhere.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.122.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.123.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.124.0	We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Mrs. Figueras, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.125.0	No, just to ask for a separate vote on point number 7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.126.0	Point number seven?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.127.0	Yeah. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.128.0	A separate vote was requested from point 7 so that, first, we would vote on point 7 and then vote on the whole motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, the vote begins; number seven. Point 7_has been approved by 65 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on residential and day-care places was approved by 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the planning of health equipment]] [[302-00086/11]] The new item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on the planning of sanitary equipment, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Lord Santi Rodriguez. [[Pause.]] Thank you so much for coming out in a hurry and quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.129.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, the origin of the inquiry that we were going to raise in the Councillor and of the motion that we are putting in this plenary is the circumstances – special circumstances, I would say – of saturation of public health and, at the same time, are not things that happen in parallel, of a certain scarcity of resources to be able to cope with this situation. And, in this sense, we must be especially curious in the measures that are taken so as to try to be as effective as possible. And, in this sense, we cannot deny that, therefore, we are going to have a certain surprise, I would say, various surprises, a first, the announcement of the deprivation of hospital policy. And that meant, on the one hand, the completion of the agreement with the Clinic of Vallès, but, on the other hand, it also meant the modification or completion of the agreement with the General Hospital of Catalonia, which basically provided some services that, from the point of view of public health, could not be offered, and therefore we collected them, to provide public service, we collected in these private resources. The moment at that, let's say, culminating, is when the councilman, by surprise of absolutely everyone– and when he says everyone wants to say everyone–, announces that, pim-pam, « I have 50_million to buy the General Hospital of Catalonia, and in this way I end all the problems. They all disappeared: those who had to sell it, because they didn't know that their hospital was for sale; the workers affected, because they didn't know what it meant to what was going on; the mayors of the region, they disappeared, because they knew that the health planning of the Vallès provided for a hospital in Rubí and a hospital in Cerdanyola that the councillor had already told them that they didn't have the resources to do it, but in change, they did appear 50_million to buy the General Hospital of Catalonia. And that's where this young man comes from, five points away. There is no general first criteria; that is to say, what are the criteria that we consider, and that is why we are putting it in plenary, in relation to health policy, right? I think that there is one thing that is obvious and that we will all share without any doubt: we have to prioritize public health resources; that, by definition. We... we plant it, we plant it: we don't agree, we don't: we plant it. Obviously, if we have public resources, these are the ones that we need to prioritize, and so we put it. Now, we also say: we do not want to give up the fact that in order to obtain a definite final, that is public salvation, we use all the means we have in the abst, with independence from which following its title. It is to say, if we do not have enough public health resources or enough public resources to provide this service, but in change there is the possibility to offer this service through means that are not public, counsel, do so. And this is what we intend to express in this young man. After that we plant that if the counselor is able to make stables and efficiencies to get – nor that it is in two years, eh? – EUR 50_million to buy the General Hospital of Catalonia, even though it is not bought the General Hospital of Catalonia, councillor, apply these standards, apply these efficiencies, whenever this does not harm the public service, and dedicate this standard, dedicate these 50_millions, to improve public health, to improve primary care, to improve hospital care from the public point of view. Plant two information points – two. One, for which it refers to the first idea of the councillor, of the councillor, which was the modification of the contract. We ask you to provide us with all the information regarding this modification of the contract, particularly to the social plan that you have for the workers. Because you know that there are surely two low trunks, in all this history there are two low trunks: one, the patients, the first – the patients, yes – and two, the workers affected. So, let's not keep, let's not keep the advice, let's not keep the department anxious about the workers, and let's explain to them what's planned for them. And other information is about the procurement, the General Hospital procurement offer, the studies and the reports that you have because you support this decision that you have near. I'm done. There's one last point where we want to put one thing in the phone book, counselor: the love of hospitals is not you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, love isn't you. We're all Catalans, anyway; but you're not. [[Some MPs peck their hands at the bait.]] And, second of all, who takes decisions on plans... who will have the responsibility for health planning will be you. But the decisions of health planning aren't theirs either, they're all Catalans too...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.130.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.131.0	... and very particularly – and I finish –, very particularly those who are affected, such as the municipalities to which they must give services to these hospital equipments. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.132.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word the lady Eulàlia Reguant, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.133.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Before anything, as we speak of sanitation, from the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Creed We would like to celebrate a small victory, that of the right to privacy to public sanitation. This morning the mountain was shown around the figure of our governor and around a worrying case of how a keeper did not have the privacy to deal with his meth, and, therefore, it was shown who is coercing who. Therefore, for us this is important, and it is important, since in this House there have been parliamentary groups that have devoted themselves to using this case as a weapon, laying here on the table that passed this morning in court and demonstrating, as I said before, who is coercing here. Before the young man, you see, the General Hospital of Catalonia, a hospital with a long history of economic failures, economic problems, rescues, double bailouts and public contracts in a private hospital that he has always served because the private enterprise is getting richer and because the former Generalitaty is raising public money to which in the fund it is a private company that does a service but, since it does, it should be public and not private. Therefore, what we have planted and have always planted is that an audit would be necessary. Not an audit of the hospital, but an audit of all the money since 1993, which is the first economic failure of the hospital, the Generalita has been working at this hospital, so we can decide whether it is really necessary to make a purchase offer or we need to lay down other lives to recover this hospital, because we understand that it is a paid and repaid hospital; therefore, it would not be safe for another once Quironsalud to fill his buttocks with public money. The young man? Home, there are many elements of this motion that you seek is to deepen into a model that we have systematically denounced; so that makes it difficult for us to clearly, more than anyone else to share, to vote for. There will be some points that we will vote that yes, because in the background we want to believe in good faith, because they are a little ambiguous, but we have decided to interpret them positively and to interpret that what is meant is to shield public servants. Others who vote that we do not, because, as I said before, we understand that they take precedence over the mercantilist view of sanitation, instead of the vision of guaranteeing rights and services, which is what should be a public service like sanitation. And in others we will abstain, because, despite the fact that we agree that the information is public, we understand that the group's intention is not to decide whether or not to recover the hospital, but that it is already with the preconceived idea that the General Hospital of Catalonia must continue in the hands of Quironsalud and that the Government of Catalonia must continue to raise money in a private hospital, and therefore with the intention that there is behind this point, we have to vote that yes. It is obvious that we would not vote that no, because transparency or access to information never has to be punished, but we cannot share it here. And finally, we understand that we should work together with the municipalities of the area, but we understand that we should also work with the citizens of the area. And then here we generate a little bit of doubt, because we only focus on the gatherings and we go back to obviating and obliving once more all those collections that years ago ask for and defend public health and all those collections that years ago ask for a 100_per_cent public health in the area of Vallès. And, therefore, we seem to be well informed, but we believe that we can go further and, therefore, we will also abstain. Again, and finally, what we need to do is to approach public health planning and address how we don't just absorb or manage the problem with the General Hospital of Catalonia, but also how clearly we plan for the Catalan public health system, the hospital, primary care and everything else, as well as a public management system, provision and public ownership and, therefore, as little as we can change contracts, but we delete them and finally get the public health to be in the hands of private health and, therefore, the public connivance that is ultimately removed from our public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.134.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then there's the word Mrs. Magda Casamitjana. Mr. Salellas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.135.0	For a point of order, President. Unfortunately, I suppose that the gap between the presidency and the People's Party bench prevents us from hearing the offensive words that have repeatedly been issued by one of the Members of the parliamentary group to the director of..., referring to the director of the CUP - Capgirem Barcelona, when Mrs Reguant referred to it. Not only that, but then Congresswoman Vehi also made a mistake. I would like to see those Members called to order from the presidency, and these types of disrespectful actions within the chamber are not allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.136.0	As you have well recognized, from here we cannot hear what you are saying to us. So, at this point, I can't judge it, because I haven't heard it. It seems to me that other members of the Bureau have not felt it either, I know hard. [[Widow's remorse.]] Keep going. In any case, it was now the turn of Mrs Magda Casamitjana, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.137.0	Thank you very much, President. Congressman, thank you very much for your willingness to play and retouch the items we have presented. We understand your concern about the future of the model of provision of the Catalan health system, and especially in the territory to which the motion you present refers today. The area of Vallès has some care needs that we all know, and we know at this time that the needs are not adequately covered and the government wants to put in an immediate remise; a remise not only of this kind, but for a very long term, for the benefit of the whole region. Above all, the government is very clear that the priority and the ultimate goal – and let's not be mistaken – is the patient, whatever the condition is, as it already became clear yesterday. The councillor and the health councillor work on the ground from the territories, not only to save money, maintaining the efficiency and efficiency and quality that you so much claim in the youth, but for the better performance of proximity services, always touching the patient and trying to get each territory to have the services you need. All the cases of re-publishing that have taken place in the current government of healthcare management respond to a principle of preference of this government, yes, and of this parliamentary group, which has established the LOSC, and have no other objective than to strengthen and legitimize the Catalan health model better. There has always been, moreover, a quality analysis and a cost analysis. The purchase operation of the General Hospital is not capricious, but complements perfectly and necessary today the specialized service map of the Vallès. There is no improvisation; already in 2005 there are two basic hospitals in Vallès. This plan could not be executed for 11 years. The needy are, have not disappeared and grow day by day. The government and the council are very aware that they cannot sleep and that they can cover the right to care in Vallès. In addition, in 2005, and today the councillor told me, people were not expected to increase in need in socio-health care and, therefore, today the purchase or the benefit that the General Hospital could have would cover this need. At these times we cannot build two hospitals and, therefore, the department and Councillor Comín have the obligation to seek an immediate solution. For two times as it seems to me, the Generalitat has tried to buy the General Hospital; as at least this will be the third, and I hope, counselor, that it will be the final. It's a complex operation, yes, we know it; we're talking about a large multinational group that is in the process of selling another group even bigger – and I don't know if it's more international, but surely. Negotiation is very delicate. The counselor gave the information he had when he thought it was appropriate and adige and at the time he felt he was more fit, always looking forward to not putting the operation at risk. The price. Mr. Congressman, we're very curious, yes, I assure you. As you well know, the money for an investment in the construction of an equipment... has a lot of different cases from the direct purchase of a good; already the advisor explained that the purchase would not be of the totality, in a pim-pam, that you said, no. We're curious; we won't do it in a year, and the deal with the Economy Council, in anticipation of capital, would assume that with about 5, 6 million years we could hold and solve the problem of the Valley for almost all time, or for a large number of years. I'm good. It's a lot less cost for the public assumption to buy the General Hospital and turn it into a basic general hospital than to build two hospitals for us. Miri, reunions, many. Say what you say, the councillor has met, I don't know if before or after, and before and after; the same councillor doesn't delegate and, honourable Member, he knows perfectly well who his responsibilities are. And in the end, who's gonna have to decide is the counselor, and still have listened to everyone. He held meetings on 25 November with the mayors and the regional councillor; he held meetings with the three corporate committees representing the General Hospital staff encapsulated by the secretary general of the UGT of Catalonia and the officials of the West Valley. The advisor has agreed that there will be no interference, neither for the workers nor for the user. The workers would retain the old age and the professional category and would pass to the Siscat convention. No worker, right now, on the street. The department is in constant contact with all parts. The whole dial, yes, but we need to be aware that we are ahead of a difficult and delicate operation, and we need to go with little lead. Discretion, honourable Member, at some points in the negotiation does not imply opacity or absolutely nothing. The councillor has clear citizens' rights to be informed. Finally, the purchase of the General Hospital is the opportunity, above all, of the immediate and, therefore, of the solution. As you know, to build a hospital, it's not just money, it's a time we don't have right now. If we start today, the first patient will surely be able to enter from here eight years from now. The beneficiaries are at these times all. There's no faulty trunk, Congressman, not one. On the contrary, patients and workers are the priority.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.138.0	Congresswoman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.139.0	And I have just said that we will vote 'yes to most of the vote; we will vote 'yes to get to the Commission all the information that they ask for, with a maximum of three_months, and we will vote 'yes to efficiency and efficiency prioritising public health resources...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.140.0	Congresswoman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.141.0	... giving them when they calm down, with the will to add an important and indispensable consensus [[remorse of the voice]] When we talk about salvation. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.142.0	Next is the words of Mr Martín Barra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.143.0	Thank you, Madam President. MPs, MPs, Councillor Comín, the motion presented to us today by the People's Party begins by saying: « The Parliament of Catalonia, with the main objective of offering a public service of quality salutation, urges the Government of the Generalitat... Without a doubt, it is also a priority for us to offer a quality public health service. We have expressed this on other occasions and will not tire of repeating as many times as we have had occasion, on the occasion of our own proposals or of the proposals of other groups in this House, for example, yesterday, with the debate on the draft law presented to us by the Government. And we are still concerned about the quality of the public health service because, to say the least, Councillor Comín, he is not to throw rockets, precisely. Yes, I will repeat many things in this speech, I know, but well, I think it is appropriate to repeat them. The brutal cuts of his predecessor in the department led to an unprecedented decapitalization of Catalan health, which, if they have not come to leave the system in a clear out of play, has been thanks to the excellent professionals who continue to face the system, despite the fact that they were not paid the extra payments or the complements for goals. But, in addition, these cuts have not been compared to those made by any other autonomous community. This is one of the things I have already repeated on another occasion. Because, we will not tire of saying that for Ciutadans the quality of public health service is a priority, nor of saying that other autonomous communities, with the same funding regime and with less per capita budget, made fewer cuts. Of course, these autonomous communities do not have to waste their budgets on "neverendums" and "hidden trips" from their government partner, Mr Romeva, who yesterday refused to answer again when he published his agenda – go to Transparency Advisor! – neither in improvising chiringuitos without content for an imaginary state, nor its presidents charge more than Rajoy nor so many other details. I will not tire of saying so, Mr Comín: it is not all the fault of Madrid; part, yes, of course, sure, but not all. And I guarantee it, really, I tell you heartily: I really want to stop saying it, I really want to stop repeating myself, but... – and to stop being a heavy one – but, do you know that it would take this little miracle of an Aragonese changing his mind? [[The timer laughs.]] That you stop playing victimism, that you stop throwing balls out like bad football teams and take on the share of responsibility they have and start solving the problems already, instead of repeating that when we are independent everything will be fixed because we will manage our taxes. By the way, they haven't taken the famous mantra out of those supposed 16,000_millions that will appear overnight. In fact, apart from the fact that it is proven to be false, it has been a long time since its governing partners said something like that, I don't remember exactly, as if that money canteen that doesn't stay here was ugly, that in Europe they won't look good at this scar attitude, that better to use other arguments... Well, yesterday, in this plenary, the 16,000_million were again argued. You know, the infinite loop, that round continues to the exit box. And while, the waiting list, the saturations of the health services, the problems, the inherited ones, of course, and those generated by their own chaotic management, by those goals in their own door that sometimes gets in, those expectations that go up with their continuous promises: Viladecans – it is that I am from there, I have to repeat it always –, General Hospital of Catalonia, Reus... All these problems keep waiting for your team to react and you can play the ball shorter, and seek to win the game, instead of complaining that they could do nothing more than give balls. This motion that we are going to approve, we are going to vote for – sorry – in favour, it is not the balm of Fierabrás, it is not the panacea that will cure all the evils of the system, it is not the magic pacima that will give us the strength of Obelix, no. But, following on with the soccer simile, at least it's a game with a sense of the global game, it's a game in which you don't lose the ball by giving balls to the air that then force you to run crazy to try to remedy the disguised one. We thank the PP for having accepted a large part of the amendments and, in another case, negotiated with the Junts pel Si Group. Our amendments, precisely, what they were looking for, were to improve the game; to adjust the passes and aids between the different players of the system; to put the ball on the foot of the best footballer of the team, the public part of the system, so that it plays with all its recognized skill and quality and can give more meaning to the global game. We hope that it will be approved and will certainly help to improve the quality of the health system. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.144.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, in order to fix her position, the words of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's Assumpta Escarp have the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.145.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I would like to begin by recalling that today, in the Senate, the People's Party has re-voted against the modification that would allow for the nursing prescription. Rebuilding and/ or underprivileging these professionals would have to start solving it. He asks the councillor, too, to make the Catalan regulation; he asks us for the collection and we all need it. There was also another feeling about vaccination today; if we can't solve this, we'll have difficulty because the system works with an evil pillar. Today, we are talking about the motion presented by the People's Party around the sanitary equipment. In May, the Socialist Group also presented one, perhaps with a much broader character in the sense of opening the debate and, since the defence of the LOSC, we were, therefore, really defending a public health system, universal, of quality and territorial fairness. We said at that time that we wanted to strengthen the public health system and end those consequences that for five years have pushed the public system and made private sanitation worse. We say, therefore, that we want it with planning, that we want it with the ability to respond to everything that you generate. We also said that we were running away from the great words because, in reality, what we were doing was exclosure of the system as contracts or extensions of the centers that were there were completed. And the Government insists, we speak of planning, transparency and consensus in the territory and in the compliment of this motion we say that an analysis of the needs has been carried out that ensures that integration does not affect the quality of the assistance and that the patients are without increasing the number of lists of hope ensuring the satisfaction, quality and accessibility, and in this sense we say, and take advantage of what the counselor has, that we are certainly talking about a territory very lacking in sanitary equipment, of mayors and mayors who have seen their health map move with the disappearance of the two hospitals and that they do not finish seeing it concretely, of a new territory lacking in health facilities, of mayors and mayors who have seen their health map move with the disappearance of the two hospitals and that they do not finish seeing it realized, of a new urgency in Thailand, of the need to address the future until 2019. Therefore, and I also find it difficult to see in the assumptions of this increase necessary for absorbing both the Tauli and the Terrassa Consortium all that is going on. Anyway, and focusing on the youth, there are some aspects that we may agree with. We would not agree, somehow, with the maintenance, always this kind of preventive maintenance in the sense of maintaining the provision of health services. We believe that we need to do it, that we need to do it right and, therefore, not prolonging it would even serve as a means of establishing good planning. We think we need planning, not keeping you serving third parties. We absolutely do not share the theme of applying the efficiencies that at the time was said, among other things, because the system itself needs 1,000_million more. I find it difficult to think that we will buy efficiently, so I think that in some other way these resources should come out. Nor do we share this massive scheme of economic viability or, in any case, economic criteria when we believe that it is necessary to talk about this, to talk about public health and, above all, to talk about putting the city at the centre of all our policies and, therefore, also of the policies of salvation. We do share that there is an effective social plan for the professionals of the Clinic of Vallès and of the General, that we share that it is endowed with the necessary resources, with infrastructures, economics and human resources the hospital centers. In general, we do share, we would say, everything that refers to strengthening the public health system, to the defense of planning and non-improvisation and, above all, we will defend consensus with the local world, universal and quality care, also, and above all equitable in an area such as the Vallès, east and west, that requires new sanitary equipment and, above all, to see covered their needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.146.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Escarp. Next is the words of Mr. Albano Fachin, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.147.0	Thank you, President. A few weeks ago, we've been talking a lot about the General Hospital in Catalonia about the announcements made by Councillor Comín, but I think it's essential that when we talk about this private hospital, we talk about its unknown and unclear history, a story that 90 percent of Catalans and Catalans surely don't know and that it's essential to explain. To explain this story, I'll read you some fragments of an article published a few weeks ago. Journalist Milagros Pérez Oliva, author of this article about the General Hospital, headlined him In the shadow of public sanitation, and thus began: "The history of the General Hospital of Catalonia illustrates better than any other attempts to parasitize public sanitation on the part of private initiative. Then the journalist explains to us that the project, which had been launched in 1973 by a group of entrepreneurs and builders hooded for Carlos Soler, Leoncio Domènech, and that among its executions were characters like Anton Cañellas, a pro-pujolist deputy, or Mr. Joan Piqué Vidal, lawyer of Jordi Pujol in the case of Banca Catalana. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The idea was to build, with contributions from thousands of partners, a large hospital with 750 beds and the most modern technology. These entrepreneurs owned by Jordi Pujol recapped 7,000_million_de_pessetes and built a mastodontic hospital that was finished... Mr. Turull, please, don't let me in and don't... [[Pause.]] Thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]] These businessmen... ask the president, please, to make a little order. [[Pause.]] These entrepreneurs owned by Jordi Pujol, Mr. Turull, collected 7,000_million_de_pessetes and built a mastodontic hospital that was finished in 1983. The totxo business was already done, and now it's turning the totxo into a hospital. Entrepreneurs expected the government to administer public contracts to their private hospital, but the generality had difficulty, because at that time, like now, public hospitals did not have sufficient resources and it would have been difficult to explain these contracts. The hospital then started operating in half-gas until, the journalist explained, the year 1993 the hospital presented suspension of payments with a debt of 12,800_million_of_persons. The hospital, however, came out of the sotrac thanks – this time, yes – to a endorsement of 2,000_millions_of_peoples of the Generality and to a concert of 1,700_millions_of_peoples annually. But all this was not enough, and in 1999 the hospital failed again. This time the accumulated losses were 34,000_million_of pessets, including 3,600_million_of pessets downstream of the Generality, is to say, money of all of us. So, what happened? There was nothing left but selling or closing. And what happened? It was not closed, because there appeared several bulls of private health willing to stay with the General Hospital – and multi-rescue – of Catalonia, an authentic bargain that attracted acquaintances like that of Sumarroca, that acquaintance related to 3_per_cent, or that of Victor Madera, the brain of Quironsalud, a lord who has made luck, certainly, to the Community of Madrid thanks to Esperanza Aguirre, to the privatizations, to the derivations and other negotiations in the style. Finally, Mr. Madera stayed with the multi-rescue hospital with public money and viable thanks to the millions of public contracts he returned to the year. Now Councillor Comín says he wants to buy the multi-rescat hospital and journalist Milagros Pérez Oliva writes: "Now Councillor Comín has just launched an OPA because public health is left, for 50_million euros, the General Hospital. His hand has a good weapon: without the concert, the hospital is hardly viable. And he has the key to the concert – you. « The logic has changed. Parasites come out of cars. Posats to pay the bill, better than the benefit is I stayed home. We do not know whether Mr. Comín will be able to complete his plan, taking into account that many of his group companies are part of the Convergence that for years and decades have had public money used to benefit these private companies, but, as it happens, this hospital has already cost us a lot of money for Catalans and Catalans, and we cannot afford new adventures. That's why we're asking Mr. Comín to take into account the people affected by this plan, the more he contacts the municipalities, the more information he informs this Parliament and heals with all the hospital workers, who are not to blame for the long and poor history of this private hospital – I end, president. And that's why we're giving support to the point of this young man that they're going in this direction. I just said one thing. It is true: as the deputy of the People's Party said, there are two bad cases, the patients and the workers, but to me, tell me ill thought, it makes me the effect that the People's Party, as always, is defending another case...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.148.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.149.0	...that it's the multinational companies that negotiate with our salvation. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.150.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr. Santi Rodríguez. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.151.0	Thank you, President. If Mr. Dante and Mr. Turull finish their debate, we will position ourselves on the papers. In the first place... – I hope, I don't know quins... [[Pause.]] Now. In the first place, I will be allowed to tell both the CUP and Catalonia Yes, it is Pot: the young man says what he says. So, you're standing on what you interpret or think we mean, well, it's his right, but it's a little surreal. The lady says what she says. And what we're pretending is that it's a position on which you said the motion, nothing more. You can think what you want; just as we do – we do. Let's think, until we do, and we'll keep doing it, freely, even though some in this room don't like to feel things coming out of our corners. I'll keep doing it and I'll keep doing it. [[Greetings.]] In relation to the reviews... [[The applause continues.]] In relation to the issues [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , agrair... - man! –, giving graces to all the groups that have submitted papers, also to the CUP..., even though they have already said that it is to deepen..., our young man is to deepen in a model that they do not share; therefore, they present papers to change the model. As the model changes, we can't accept the items that they present to us to do something different from what we want it to do, and that's why we don't accept them. We have not traded four together for the Yes; we have not traded..., all with Citizens – five –, and therefore this is the result of the motion. With regard to the subject of information, Mrs. Casamitjana, miri, what we want to say, and we have expressed, and the discomfort we have expressed is..., if it seems good to us that the councilman is meeting with the mayors, with the unions, I say, on November 23rd, November 25th..., it seems very good to us. The problem is that the Councillor's lack of discretion in a media outlet is October 21st, a_me and hang out before he has these meetings with the mayors to explain to them what the Councillor's plans are. And, therefore, this is the reason for our complaint, this is the reason we expressed what we expressed in this young man. Thank you, Madam President; ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.152.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Some applause.]] We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.153.0	To ask for separate votes, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.154.0	Yeah, what's the score?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.155.0	Point 1.c, point 2 – sensibly, a and b – and point 3.a; all three can be voted on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.156.0	Mr. Fachin, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.157.0	To ask for a separate vote on '1.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.158.0	One...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.159.0	What.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.160.0	What?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.161.0	What; 1.c. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.162.0	Mrs. Reguant, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.163.0	To ask for a separate vote from..., or go on, apart from what has already been said by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the PSC, from point 3 senter. So you can't... or you can, as Congresswoman Granados said, you can't vote for them... or you can vote for them, all three, four and five. Oh, come on, so... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Or on the 4th and 5th, they can vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.164.0	Mrs. Casamitjana, do you want to ask for a separate vote, too?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.165.0	Yes; to ask for a separate vote, yes: from 1.c, 2.a, 2.b and 4.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.166.0	Separate votes on points were requested: 1.c, 2.a and b. Can the 2nd and b be voted together? 2a and b. Is that what I'm asking? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, Therefore, 1.c, 2.a, 2.b, 3.a, the rest of 3, 4, 4.c and 5. Right? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, we'll start voting for 1.c, continue and finish for the rest of the vote. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, we'll vote on point 1.c. The vote begins. The 1.c_point was rejected by 33 votes in favour, 93 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 2.a. The vote begins. Point 2.a_has been approved by 41 votes to 24, with 61 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 2.b. The vote begins. The 2.b_point was rejected by 40 votes in favour, 86 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the third point. The vote begins. Point 3a_a was approved by 102 votes to 24, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the rest of point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 118 votes to 8, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 4.c. The vote begins. Point 4.c_was rejected by 57 votes to 61, with 8 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 118 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 118 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. And then we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The Health Equipment Planning Committee was approved by 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into youth employment]] [[302-00087/11]] Point 20 is: Motion following the question to the Government on youth occupation, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word the lady Lorena Roldán. [[Widow's remorse.]] Thank you, many thanks to get out of the hurry. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.167.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. Well, I'm not a mother, and a lot less teenage or young children, but I'm sure that those here who are parents or the parents who are seeing us will agree with what I'm going to say. If one day I'm a mother, I'd like to be able to tell my children what my parents told me: that I could be in life where I wanted to be. But, of course, frankly, with the data from the last population to the hand it seems quite difficult that this can be possible if we do nothing about respect. Look, if I'm a mother, I'd like to tell my children that they'll have the same opportunities as the rest, that they can perfectly master the català, the castle and the English, even if they don't go to private classes or private schools. Do you know that the Official School of Idioms in Catalonia is one of the most beloved in Spain? Is that what we want for our children? Is that how we want to promote equal opportunities? Okay. To us, of course, I assure you that it is not our model, and that is why we are betting on a trilingual education model. Look, if I'm a mother someday, I'll come back, too, and advise them and accompany them in a decision as important to life as it is to: what do you want to be when you grow up? A decision that must be taken with criteria of vocation, obviously, but also with pragmatic criteria, that arise from the real knowledge of the labor market. This is why we propose that a specific subject be included in the ESO course aimed at guiding students in relation to existing post-compulsory itineraries. A matter to be counted on with the gathering of the educational community, the businesses, the chambers of commerce, the local entities, and, ultimately, all those agents who wrap around the youth and the labor market so that they can keep the information necessary to sort out what they want to be in the future. Look, if I'm a mother, I'll tell them they can go to college, a public and quality university, and not like now. Because let us remember that studying Catalonia costs three times more than other autonomous communities, such as Galicia or Extremadura. And we're no longer talking about quality, because we're a long way from being well placed in any of the world's races. If I'm a mother, I'd also like to tell them that if they don't want to go to college, they have other options, good options, such as dual FP. We need to enhance dual vocational training, because we know that it is a model of success that is already working in other European countries, because we can train professionals with work experience and that even then we can consolidate this work in this place of work where these practical practices have been carried out. I mean, we have to adjust the job demand to the offer. It can't be that the university is a factory to produce graduates that after the job market can't absorb and that, for another band, we have companies that have to go outside looking for certain professional profiles because they don't find them here. Obviously there's something we're doing wrong. Look, if I'm a mother someday, I'll tell my kids that if they work and work, they'll have opportunities; good opportunities, not give them. We have 32,2_percent of the time between young people from seven to twenty-four years, where more than half of the contracts signed with young people are temporary contracts, they are brush contracts. It's the first time we've passed this 50_per_cent shield. Three times more contracts brush or temporary contracts than the rest of the population. And, please, let no one say that this young person is already well, as we felt here in the last Ple, because, at last, the same report from the Catalan Youth Observer says that this statement is not true. Look, if I'm a mother, I refuse to take the illusion, because precisely, adolescence is that stage of life where all is possible, but for this reason we must reverse the current situation; we must take advantage more of the resources that come from Europe through the Youth Guarantee. It can't be that only twenty thousand young people get work done with this program when we have 150,000 young people in Catalonia. There may be more correlation between the post-compulsory itineraries and the reality of the job market. It can't be that a young person with a high level of format is in jobs that require less training. We need to deploy once and for all the single business window. We need to help those young people who have projects, we don't need to put them through, but we need to encourage them and help them. We need to protect them and strengthen the performance of the job inspection to end the precarious work that particularly affects young people. All that's what we're asking with this young man today. Because we, in Cities, do not comply with the fact that everything is already being done or with the data we have. Because I wouldn't want my children to be from a lost generation, and I'm sure you don't want them either. Our young people have worked hard and done their dues, and now we have to do them to us, to approve those assignments that we have been flushing and pushing note to the rest for years. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.168.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Roldán. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.169.0	Thank you, President. Okay. From the CUP - Crida We are famous to talk about youth occupation. We want to change the focus, we want to talk about the labour market. And we want to change the focus too so that you're not all focused on businesses, that we understand that that's what this whole issue of illusion was about. Miri, data from the Idescat: 30 percent of the population between seven and twenty-four years is at a stand– we're talking about ninety-thousand young people. And of the people who are busy, who are talking about some 190,000 young people, we don't know the quality and the conditions. In fact, one of the criticisms of the Labour Force Survey is that it does not take into account either temporality, wages or precariousness. And talking about young people and the labor market is talking about, above all, precariousness. Yesterday, he told The Newspaper that Barcelona's economic and social adviser three times the month of June that between 2008 and 2013 the wages of the underage of twenty-five years have dropped by 21,7_per_cent, from 13,371_euros per year to 10,400 and fall. In the case of women, this goes down to 8,500, almost. Here I make a parenthesis: it is obvious that the majority of young people in our country are not part of the middle class of Mrs Pascal, but earlier than the 96_per_cent that Mr. Salellas exhibited yesterday. About the young man... I'm telling you, we don't share the focus. Your focus is on facilitating the entry of businesses into the Youth Guarantee network and participating in job diagnosis instead of focusing on the needs of young people in the country. Therefore, all those points relating to this ease of business, from paragraph 1, we would vote against. Furthermore, we have tried to incorporate Resolution 130, which we approved in this Parliament in the general policy debate on social, labour, economic and fiscal responsibilities of businesses, and you did not want to. We understand, they're opposite models. We understand that its is that of the deregulation of the market in favour of capital and ours that of the maximum regulation in favour of life, and to make an economy of life we have incorporated ideas – these have indeed accepted them – relating to the lines..., to the incorporation of lines of solidary and cooperative social economy, because we understand that one of the essential lives in order to end the rock of the dawn is to reorient the fabric of the product and the labor market. For what you do at point 2, which you speak of formation, we will vote against it all. You propose that companies enter ESO's educational centres to expose content on the labour market, occupation and business fabric. We who have been fighting for years because the companies leave the university, have to understand that in no case will we allow them to enter the institutes. What we will vote for is that of the single window and the job inspection. As a final reflection, for us, youth and job insecurity are high-level conflicts, but we understand them as systemic and model conflicts. Before my company, Albert Botran, quoted David Harvey and the transformations of capitalism and the labour market. I want to get the wire back to illustrate what the conflict is for us on the job market and on the job. And it's a conflict that has the means of production; that accumulates benefits, that are the same people and businesses that have these means of production, and how that supposes the dispossession of young people and young people in this country. And, before the depossession, we prefer to talk about breaking the Tableau, and we prefer to get back the Zapatista quote, which has been quoted several times in this Parliament since the CUP arrived, from "restre, pa e trabal". Because, for us to fight for the rights for all, but understand them as right, and as we understand that it is the right to work, and not as goods. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.170.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. The words of Mr Pol Gibert, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.171.0	Thank you, President. I have to admit that at the beginning of the intervention of the proposer I thought I was wrong about the motion, I thought we were talking about something else; trilingualism, these fears that do not go to the motion but that I also understand that it was to give context to the motion and the future of young people in the labor market, which I can hear, right? But, finally, we saw that they were talking about the motion about youth occupation and, therefore, I feel at home. Today is also an opportune day to talk about this issue, because we have known that the European Union will devote 500_million more euros to fighting against youth at European level, with which it is also nice to have more money to fight against this scourge than all of us, and especially at our home, right? As a matter of course, the Youth Guarantee was called, for all, to be the hope of thousands of young people and millions of young people in Europe to solve a social and economic crisis, which we have seen, for many years, as affecting, above all, the south of Europe. And that was so for some countries that applied it correctly. Some of our eyes have seen how the Youth Guarantee did follow a fire of hope, and not others... Spain is not the case of these first ones, where the coverage of the program up just over 10_percent of young people– 10_percent of young people– at the Spanish level. While France or Austria rises to 80_per_cent. And that is not said by Pol Gibert, Member of the PSC, who wants to make a detailed reading of the subject; that is what the analysis of the European Commission says. And what are the original sins of this Youth Guarantee in Spain? So, we have two: for one band, we have the block that sees the Spanish government, known for all, we have commented it many times, Youth Commission, Work Commission. A block that is the original sin of how it was designed the Youth Guarantee in this country; a Youth Guarantee with criteria, many times, inconsistent, in which if a young person one day unloads a truck late they cannot choose that place of work for semblance of weeks. So, it's a system that doesn't respond to what the Spanish youth landscape is like at these times. And the second theme: how it applies then to Catalonia, its deployment here. We have problems with the criteria of insertion into the territory, we have problems with lack of impulses to certain areas and, therefore, we also need to solve these issues. For all this, we believe that we need to evaluate the Youth Guarantee and its outcome at home, because without results and data we cannot know how it is currently applying, and what is failing and what is working to be able to resolve these issues. We have thousands of young people who can see this program as a solution to their day-to-day problem, to a basic problem such as lack of occupation. We cannot afford to fail as Parliament and as Government. That's why we celebrate this young man from Ciutadans, we have to recognize the work done, which is trying to bring solutions to a few points and some problems of these that we quote. As it could not be otherwise, we agree on the first points of the motion, where it is sought to strengthen and increase the network of impulses. It is a subject that has also been discussed in this Parliament and which we firmly believe needs to be developed. We've made papers to incorporate the National Youth Council, a key element in knowing how the young man of this country works; to design the youth guarantee broadcast campaign. We think it's basic to know how young people think so they can get to themselves. Yes, it is true, as the company of the CUP said a few minutes ago, that we note a liberal biax, so to speak, to the young man, always seeking to reach out to the enterprises, in accounts to other sectors that also work in the labor market, until reaching the point that we want to see as chambers of commerce, enterprises and other elements, let us say, from the employer want to make an assignment to the schools, which we do not share in any way. In fact, we have made statements, in this sense, to reduce the importance of this assignment, that it was more a draft than an assignment as such, since we do not believe that the company should enter, as such, to impart knowledge to our choices. So, this point, we can't pull it out of the way. Yes, we will give support to points that try to eliminate crossings and seek to coordinate with the central government the best you need in this program. As we say, there are two blocks: the bloc of the Spanish Government and the bloc of the Catalan Government. So let's celebrate that there's coordination and that it's better all the points that you need, in this sense. Finally, let's celebrate that the young lady insti, one more time, the job inspection. And it's funny because a few weeks ago, at the Labour Commission, the Director of Inspection warned that he had a lot of work to do trying to adapt to what this Parliament was doing with regard to work inspection. And maybe someday we'll have to figure out if what it is to fight against the consequences or the origin of these problems we have on the job market. If that's the second option, we'll have to start thinking hard about acting on the origin and not the consequences. This will mean, companies and companies, Members and Members, starting to think of a new legislation much more different. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.172.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Gibert. Then there is the word, Mr Sergio Santamaría, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.173.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to say that it is a profound reason for satisfaction to be back in the Parliament of Catalonia again, in this house, in this house which must be, right? – or at least I have that intention –, the temple of the peaceful battle of ideas, taking the words of Jefferson that in addition to our parliamentary spokesman, Alejandro Fernández, likes to remember so much. I come to battle, precisely, peacefully, defending our idea, defending our project of freedom, equality and solidarity among Catalans, among Spanish, convinced, deeply convinced that it is the best in front of the rupturist separatism, yes, that it is willing to continue writing the blackest page in the democratic history of Catalonia. But, well, we're on the subject. The motion before us generally deserves the support of our parliamentary group. Basically, because it seeks to gain greater involvement and competence from the Government of the Generalitat in active employment policies for our young people. After discussing the debate between Mrs Roldán and Mrs Bassa, I would like to make a number of comments in order to spell out the words and approaches of both of them. Firstly, I would ask the Member of the European Parliament, Mrs Lorena Roldán, to banish the evil expression 'nini', referring to young people who neither study nor work and who only stigmatise them unjustly and denigrate them. But, well, in the rest of the motion and in the rest of his speech, I must give him reason when he argues that the figure of youth unemployment in the section that goes from sixteen to twenty-four years in Catalonia is unbearable: a 32_per_cent. And some responsibility in that tearing data will have the Government of the Generalitat. The truth also helps him when he criticizes the poor quality of the job offered to them, their precariousness, their temporality, because they are disincentives, and that he will only be able to correct himself with a more competitive economy and an educational system that improves the training of young people in their academic and professional aspects. Hence the importance of enhancing dual vocational training. An example to follow is the Community of Madrid, with very good results, where almost 80_percent of the students who bet on it end up finding employment. It is also a firm commitment from the European Commission, because they understand that this is precisely the way forward in order, as I say, to find a solution to this problem. The Department of Labour must also strive to eliminate administrative duplication and bureaucratic procedures, to implement without further delay the single window, because that facilitates entrepreneurship, and entrepreneurship reflects the talent of a society such as Catalan, such as Spanish, which wants to be truly prosperous. On the other hand, it is inexplicable that the Labour Councillor would only execute 39_percent of the budget allocated in 2015; it involves budget fraud and condemns many young people to lose opportunities of support and promotion to get out of unemployment. It also happens with the poverty fund, with which we have seen that, in fact, when the budget is not implemented, then misfortunes like those that happened in Reus happen. And do you know why these things happen, Counselor? Because they do not know how to face the truth and hide it by lying blatantly, as, for example, when they repeatedly claim that in an independent Catalonia this would not happen. Don't fool people, please; be honest with the citizenry. With regard to the youth guarantee programme, we must say that it is not effective; it is not effective because, above all, statistics show that the figures are clearly better. And they should not blame others, and they should manage with good judgment and review and change programs when they do not work. Look, in Denmark, for example, we are already talking in these days of full employment; and I am not going to take the radish by the leaves: there the state hardly intervenes and the labour market is regulated among the social partners. This, of course, you will not like, because, as you idolize free Cuba – which fortunately is already free from dictator Fidel Castro – then, of course, the only thing that is achieved there is to socialize poverty. In any case, the Danish have managed to coin the term flexicurity, because security – and this is very important – is not achieved by having the same job for life, but by having the necessary qualifications to be able to have a job for life. And it works, thanks to dialogue, consultation, values that we should transfer here and not just to the world of work. That is, I beg you, always within the scrupulous respect for the rule of law, democratic rules, and not from the intrusion, from the challenge, from the disloyalty. I'm done, President. We shall support the motion in its entirety and abstain only in point 1(e). MPs, MPs...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.174.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Applauds]] - No, no, no, Next is the words of Mr Pol Gibert, of the Parliamentary Group..., sorry, Joan Giner, of the Parliamentary Group Catalonia Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.175.0	Good afternoon to everyone. Let us start by talking about context when we talk about youth guarantee, and the context in which we base ourselves on this is the problem of attitude; we can say that attitude is youth, but above all the problem of attitude, that it is a consequence of the crisis or of the stature that we have been living in the last few years, that attitude is not something that will exist for itself, but that it is the consequence of a capitalist system that is crumbling and that the working and popular classes are the first to recover from its hardships. Today's young people are of the most prepared generations and we will not live – we will not live –, not being the generation that will live worse than our parents, because we are already. Already, the guarantee of work, working, does not mean a guarantee of having quality of life; therefore, precarious, temporary, under very low, very flexible hours – now that they were talking about flexibility – show how young people are getting used to culturally, including living in an established precariousness that lowers the standard of living and the quality of our society. And that said, and getting into the subject of this young man, I'm really glad that two different models have been visualized in this young man's debate, that many might consider that he didn't just get to the bottom of the issue, two very different models of how to focus public policies and how to manage..., like, we all have to work on this problem. This is money, a large amount above the European Union as a redistribution of wealth, where the Government of the State takes this half and gives credit to businesses. So, to Catalonia, what we do... we try, say, to redistribute this wealth in a different way in the other 50_per_cent and try to counter..., as well as the hardships that we see here, quite certainly, that they are to the youth, that the State sets itself above. What we find, in reality, in this young man are some points that the one who is giving even more prominence to these enterprises, which, I say, the Spanish State already gives them a bonus; it gives me even more prominence to the point that they are able to mark the formation lines of our schools in certainly matter. Therefore, we find two lines, two models, which may be compassionate. It is not by chance that when the PP's company comes out here it is entirely in agreement with the motion and many of the things that we have come out critical of this young man's key. There are two lines: an ultra-liberal line and a line that wants to socialize the right to live decently. And what we are seeing here is that who caused this earthworm, who caused this problem, which really caused us to live in such a harsh situation in Spain, is not the public administration, that also, but the markets that we have not regulated, the big banks that have been able to intervene in the economy, the economy of all, and that has brought us to a crisis, a crisis of capitalism, that has caused Catalonia, as I say, there are many, many and many young people around. Therefore, let me defend a model where there is not the unregulated private market, the 'economic freedom, and that is the concrete word I have sought, because the experience tells us – and the president said the other day that politics is also experience – that it has not been and has not worked very well. Entering then in the most concrete terms of the motion, we truly believe that it would strengthen the communication line of Youth Guarantee. We have already commented on this to the Youth Policy Committee, which I have the honour of chairing; we have made a monogram on youth guarantee from the past with entities and unions – the Lower Councillor was present. We believe that we should also expand the Youth Guarantee network, but... world pau is important in this world, but it is also important to go to concrete things. And we believe that there is a specific game in the premise, and that is why we have proposed a theme at these points, which has been accepted, and we appreciate the flexibility of the proposed group. We will not vote in favour of even giving entry to businesses, giving more power to this private market that has brought us where it has brought us. And, therefore, both the points and the d, as well as the whole point 2, we would vote in favour. In change, we will vote in favour of the last points. And, well, I'm surprised, say so, that such an economic and liberal liberating logic would strengthen the performance of the job inspection. It's all right; we see that there may be an ideological contradiction here, or it may not be very clear about the objective. What we believe in this point and it's important, and with this we have to finish, is that in public policies the public reversal of wealth redistribution has two very clear models, it has two models: there is the model of economic liberation, the model that the experience tells us that it has led us to a failure and an endemic situation, that it is a very strong social problem to the popular bars – to which I invite them to pass, to see it, especially for the young people – and a model that wants to socialize life, that wants to use these resources from the administration that has been democratically voted – not with the presidents of the big banks – that can allow this evil to end and that, in fact, we live in a more just society.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.176.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Giner. The words "Mrs. Natàlia Figueras", of the Group of Parliamentarians Junts per el Sí, follow.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.177.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, the Youth Guarantee Movement – the company has now commented on this – is a subject that we have already discussed intensively both in the Youth Commission and in the same Treball Commission. It's a program, it's a tool that in this case the Generality, the Government, we have and can work to fight this youthful trek, to fight them to generate opportunities. But I'd like to argue some of the things that have been said here. For a moment he gave me the feeling that he was in Madrid, that he was not in the Parliament of Catalonia, but that he was in the Congress. We spoke, in this case the People's Party, about the work; you were not yet on the first day, but when the Councillor for Work and Social Affairs and Families in her committee explained or wanted to give reference to the work she spoke that freedom began to hold a decent job. And, therefore, it is on the line that we work this government, it is on the line that we work and that we are here the deputies: we want a decent job for our citizens, and in this case the young people, we want to have opportunities, we want to live in a better country, we want to build our society, and this point... we need to manage these resources. And you, Mr. Santamaría, were talking to me about a dual system in Madrid, telling me that in this case the Generalitat is dedicated to establishing, working with its skills and its instruments, talking to us about a single window... But it is that – and I know it is hard, because it will then ask for the word for allusions – that it is you who do not let us do it; it is you who, after you repeat once again the Director General of Youth has asked to flexibilize this window, because you register much younger in these programs, because you come to society, because many of the people who have problems can access there and there is no such request... once, you do not give it. You are the ones who do not allow us to work with work skills, to make it easier for five elements to allow young people to access them, to work with guarantees, to work with rights. You don't allow it. Every time we set out some work topics in some regulations, they send us to the Constitutional Court. You're talking about the dual system in Madrid, but you don't know that your region, Catalonia, is the first region or would be the first in this case, in legal terms, an autonomous community that started with the dual system, that works and amplifies it? This is the line we have to follow. Mrs. Lorena, in this case we thank you, therefore, for your willingness to work, to expose this youth guarantee motion. The truth is that, with all groups, the vast majority or the general aspect, so we share it; but we do have some differences. We quite agree with the Socialist Party in this case... And it's that, above all, where the issue of education is, we don't agree. We consider that our education system already guides, reorients, collaborates, does a personalized follow-up to all young people who, therefore, have to decide and we have to decide our future. And finally, in relation to what is the Youth Guarantee, we work with three objectives, above all specifics, that one is to activate young people who are not occupied or integrated into the education system of training, to strengthen the occupation and all these professional skills, and more so to increase the entrepreneurship of all of these young people so that we can have, and I implore myself, a worthy future, a decent job, and more so, we can live with all the rights, and that this government, and that our government guarantees us. But in order to do this, we need tools, we need skills, and we have the illusion– and since the department we work with this illusion– to be able to build a state that is right to guarantee and to have these skills, to work there, to adapt to the society that we live, to be flexible enough, to be close enough and to really help, not from Madrid, but from here, with proximity, to really help all young people, through these programs, and from all those who come and come, and who believe... and who can apply, that will be so. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.178.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Figueras. Then you have the word Mrs. Roldán to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.179.0	Yes, thank you, President. See, I'll try to be brief because two minutes don't give for sure. I was told by the CUP deputy that this young man was on the run. No, this isn't from the start, this is from what we want to spend our money on. We, in Citizens, want to spend our money on the real problems of Catalans, on the needs we have, and that of young people is a problem, and quite difficult, because we saw the figures in the inquiry the other day. Looks like you don't like it, that. You, please the Government, and you as partners, so, well, 5.8_millions destined to divide Catalans. That's his focus, not ours, that's clear. The deputy of Catalonia also spoke to us Yes, it is Pot of these two models, of this difference, that... So, yes – yes – there are two models..., there are more than two models. Miri, between ultraliberalism and Cuba there are intermediate models. I don't know if the center sounds like it. [[some applause]] We're in the center, I don't know if he just rang. Look, I may be very naive. I came here, so, with a construction, I tried to trade everything we could, because it seemed to me that the young people could not be victims of our disagreements, that they could not be held responsible for not being able to get there, so, in agreement, because it seems that some parties have allergy to the word, so, coordinate, to talk to the State... We see it. Well, from President Puigdemont, who doesn't want to go to the conference of presidents to negotiate a good financing, so far, we'll see what happens to those points that talk about coordinating with the Government of Spain. So, it's a big deal, the truth; it's a big deal because I think that in these aspects, like young people, and with the future as black as we're painting them for the data that we have, that it's real data, we should have all agreed so that we could recover the expectations that young people would never have lost, and less because of us. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.180.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Roldán. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Santamaría, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.181.0	Yes, Madam President, for allusions and contradictions by Mrs Figueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.182.0	All right, let's go. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.183.0	Look, Mrs. Figueras, in the end it was not the Bassa Councillor, but you who took the radish by the leaves. If you know what that expression means, which basically means, then, that: that you don't give a sense that doesn't have many of the things that are said, fundamentally when, above all, you to satiety repeat the mantra of independent Catalonia to divert all kinds of guilt. In any case, I would also like to give you an important nuance. And I must remind you that your Government, at the end of last year, had already provided for contracts with companies for young people who could therefore immediately enter into these jobs. And yet the councilwoman eliminated them. Therefore, do not tell me everything you have told me, because, among other things, I also remind you that your group in the Congress of Deputies supported the Labour Reform of the People's Party. [[You see, "Very well!]] Therefore, history is always good to remember the, because, if not, you can put the pifia, as you have just done in your intervention. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.184.0	Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.185.0	To ask for separate votes, President. From point 1.c and 1.d, which can be voted together, and point 2.a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.186.0	Mrs Vehi, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.187.0	To ask for separate votes, Madam President, from...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.188.0	How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.189.0	It's just that we would need point 1, all the letters to be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.190.0	Point one?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.191.0	All separately, all the subpoints you have.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.192.0	So, God doesn't do it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.193.0	And we could vote the last three together, for ourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.194.0	Or go, the e, the f and the g.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.195.0	No... yes, e, f, g.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.196.0	It's the last three, and, f, g. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, I know, yeah. Mrs. Figueras, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.197.0	Yes, to ask for separate votes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.198.0	Of what?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.199.0	In this case, point 1.c, 1.d, 1.f, 2.a and 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.200.0	In fact, we have been asked to vote separately from all the quarters of point 1. So we'll vote for them one by one. The last three men... all agree that 1.e., 1.f. and 1.g. vote... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? So, so, we'll vote for them, all in point 1, separate; then we'll vote in the second and then we'll vote in the sixth. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's get started. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1.a_has been approved by 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Now we're voting point 1.b. The vote begins. The 1.b_point was approved by 118 votes in favour, against and 8 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1.c. The vote begins. The 1.c_point was rejected by 33 votes to 77, with 16 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1.d. The vote begins. The 1.d_point was rejected by 33 votes to 77, with 16 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1. The vote begins. Point 1.e_was approved by 108 votes in favour, against and 18 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1.f. The vote begins. Point 1.f was rejected by 57 votes to 61, with 8 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1.g. The vote begins. The 1.g_point was approved by 118 votes in favour, against and 8 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 2.a. The vote begins. Point 2.a_has been rejected by 33 votes to 93, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 57 votes in favour, against and 69 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Youth Occupation Movement has been approved by 125 votes in favour, 1 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the transparency of the Government]] [[302-00088/11]] The twenty-first point is: Motion following the question to the Government on the transparency of the Government, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it, has the word Mr. Fernando de Páramo. [[Pause.]] Thank you so much for coming out in a hurry and quiet. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.201.0	Well, thank you, President. Councillor, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, before starting, wanted to thank the work that other parliamentary groups have done to try – to try – that this motion is finally approved. We will see this after the vote, but in any case, the work that has been done both for the deputy Gómez del Moral, the deputy Milián, the deputy Pedret and the rest of the groups that have tried to improve this content. So, thank you for your work. I started this motion by developing..., developing a role – I don't know if you remember it –, a role roll that reached the ground where corruption cases were shown that have plagued Spanish politics, including, of course – a good curriculum, by the way – the Catalan politics by parties that today still sit there on the bench. Those cases of corruption on that list that reached the ground force politicians to take two options in the face of this situation. One is to look elsewhere, as has been done for so long in Catalonia, or the other option is to fight the, but to fight the real, to fight the with arguments, to fight the with proposals, to fight the with reforms, which is how politicians can fight, in short, inequalities or crises. And this is a crisis of confidence. And it is a crisis of confidence because corruption in the end not only affects the public coffers, it is not only an economic issue, it is also a matter that directly affects the democratic system, it directly affects our democratic system, because citizens rightly lose confidence no longer only in politicians, but also in political parties, and they lose confidence, ultimately, in the functioning of the democratic system and parliaments. This motion defends issues that should not need to be defended today in a parliament, because they seem to be of common sense. When I raised this question, I asked Councilman Romeva if he was in favour of a number of issues. I told him about..., if he was in favour of publishing the councillor's agenda, the trips...; if he was in favour of ending the political outbursts and privileges..., ending the revolving doors, ending, in short..., with protecting also the whistleblowers from cases of corruption, those public officials who detect a case of corruption and who often do not dare to tell about the reprisals they may have in their workplace. Mr. Romeva didn't answer me. Then I asked him a question, two days ago, on the same subject, yesterday, and he didn't answer me either. I hope that this motion will come forward today and I will no longer have to answer you..., I will never have to ask you again, because you, as you called me « striped disc, for..., I think it is not a matter of striped disc, it is a question of those who are in the opposition we have to control the government ; what happens is that the one who was before in the opposition is now vice president of the government. But, aside from that, we do our job, which is to be in opposition. So don't get upset, you've been in politics a long time and you know how this works. And the opposition has to control the government. In any event, if this motion continues and comes out with an affirmative vote by this Parliament, I promise you that I will never ask you again about your agenda nor will I ask you again about the outbursts. This motion is ultimately about helping citizens solve one of their problems, in particular the second problem facing the citizens of our country, which is corruption. It only advances him on that scale of problems, it is only overcome by unemployment, by unemployment. It would therefore be bad news, and above all more than bad news would be a complicated message that we would send to the citizens of Catalonia as a whole if this Parliament is not able to agree on such an important issue for the citizens, and also on an issue that is, as I said, a scourge for our democratic system. It would be bad news for this Parliament today to vote against the abolition of the embargoes, it would be bad news for this Parliament to vote against ending the revolving doors, it would be bad news for this Parliament to vote against the fact that whistleblowers for corruption in these public workers do not have special protection, and it would be bad news, especially for its Foreign Affairs and Transparency Councillor, that you continue with impunity in publishing your agenda and your travels. All that would undoubtedly be bad news for this Parliament of Catalonia, but no longer just that, but the message that we would be sending, no doubt, to the citizens of Catalonia, who demand that politicians be the first example of all, among other things because they pay us the salary, it is they who pay us the salary to do our job, and if it can be so that we do not steal, too. I would therefore like to see this parliamentary group, which is one of the major concerns of our political work..., finally this motion will be approved and finally we will not have to talk again in this Parliament about the outbursts, we will not have to talk again in this Parliament, in the end, about political privileges and Mr Romeva's agenda. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.202.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the words of Mr Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.203.0	Thank you, President. We would have liked it, somehow... or, well, we'd like to get into the background of this debate a few weeks from now, when the Commission for the Study of Measures against Corruption can get into more detail at the conclusion stage of which we propose, right? More than anything because we are before a young man who we will practically endorse in his conjunction, but who speaks of questions which are very general and which are questions, moreover, which are not the competence of this Parliament. In any case, how do we already agree that this Parliament deals with questions that are not its competence, so forward, right? But here it is about a question, for example, the Law of Indult, of 1870, so, it's a state competition, which I know, right? Or questions relating to the protection of the complainant, are questions of the Criminal Court, the Court of Administered Procedure; all these are state powers. But we're voting for it, because, like the idea, like the layout, so it seems right to us, doesn't it? A little in the same line, when it comes to fighting against the rotating doors, it is also not a concrete measure that goes in this line. We are aware that, as in the words of the same anti-corruption prosecutor Emilio Sánchez Ulled when he compared to the Commission, it is one of the great permanent structural storms of corruption, the question of rotating doors, right? And the same prosecutor made a very severe criticism of state legislation in this matter. Therefore, he intended to take measures to fight against the rotating doors. Forward, isn't it? But I think that as long as we need a second time from this young man, or a third, or a quarter, that I hope can be in the work of the Commission for the Study of Measures against Corruption where we concretely land much more of this issue. And, therefore, beyond good intentions and good words, and to say that we will support this young man's establishment, remember, right? , as this same prosecutor did, who stated that the main cause of corruption or the main engine of corruption is nothing other than the capitalism of connivance that we have been generating in our economic system, and, therefore, denounce once more that we cannot tackle these problems without attacking the real cause. But I wouldn't want you to keep saying empty words and overly ideological speeches, and taking advantage of the fact that we're already in the..., that the fence has been opened to start talking about assumptions, so I'd really like to, wouldn't I? , to make it clear that dealing with assumptions..., depending on the focus that we give to the assumptions is also fighting or not against corruption. Why? So, why are the same corruption experts and the same... in this sense, right? many of the prosecutors working in this area have denounced that one of the main risks and one of the main focus of corruption is the disruption of the public sector of our administrations. That is to say, when we cease to have public office and begin to have eventual contract, interim contract, labor contract we are generating a risk focus in the matter of corruption. When we are privatizing public services and are, therefore, making awards we are opening a cake of gain, of work and, therefore, of corruption. And when we are generating opaque instruments like foundations, consortia, etc., we are also subscribing to the appearance of more corruption. So I'd say that, wouldn't I? , which, from our perspective, because these assumptions that we will begin to deal with at the end of this month also follow the presuppositions of fighting corruption must, above all, have a will to reverse the retail trade, generation of public work and elimination of private concerts and consortia. This, in our view, will be the real fight against corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.204.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. Next is the words of Mr. Albano Fachin, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.205.0	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing a proposal on transparency presented for Ciutadans, but, I, let me start by speaking a little clearly: this, more than a young person, is propaganda – propaganda. And for us, transparency is a very serious issue, rather important to make it serve as a pamphlet and, therefore, we will always denounce those who, like Ciutadans, fill the mouth with transparency, and only the mouth. I understand that Ciutadans, which is the party that voted in favour of Spain being governed by the most corrupt party in Europe, must go to parliaments to see that they do things for transparency. And it's fine, you can do what you want; now, you don't count on us for these propaganda operations. Because today you come here with a young lady who talks, among other things, about transparency in external action. All right. So, can you explain to me why your party, forty-four hours ago, at the Congress of Deputies, voted against transparency in CETA negotiations, an agreement between Canada and the European Union similar to the TTIP, which is a covert occasion and which is bringing the citizens to an end? You said yes, but..., I will read it, forty-four hours ago, United We can, In the Sea and in Communal We can present a proposal that at its point number 1 asks the Government of Rajoy, read, textually: "To inform the Chamber, with urgency, about the joint declaration developed between the European Commission and the Government of Canada. I Ciutadans, champions of transparency, vote against the PP government informing Congress. Point 2: "To inform the Chamber, as a matter of urgency, of the negotiations that Spain has conducted with regard to the annexes to the CETA concerning services and designations of origin of the impact analyses carried out by the Government with regard to the outcome of these negotiations. And the champions of transparency in foreign policy vote against the People's Party government..., inform me about what's going on. What transparency did you come to talk about? What transparency did you come to talk about, when it comes to making transparency work to unravel the mountains of the big bank and the multinationals, and looking at another gang? I know you don't like me to tell you, but it's just that you prove, another time, that I'm the cross of IBEX 35, because... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] This is not propaganda, this is the reality when you vote in favour of continuing to catch the plans of the multinationals and the big banks, which are perpetrating at this time a wave of scandal in the city. Try to store it by presenting this menu of fun, to grab some press headline, but, I insist, with us you don't count for this operation. Transparency is quite an important issue to leave it in the hands of people who, like you, fill their mouths, but act, day and day too, against transparency. And that's why every time you try to vampireize or remove headlines that I'm the transparent ones, so you're gonna keep us in front of you to remove the disguise. And that's why we won't vote for anything, not this young man, because if we were a young man, we would read it, but that's not a young man, I insist, it's propaganda, because you come to say something here that you don't believe in at the Congress of Deputies; so you can't take it seriously. I ended up with a reflection: in this Parliament Citizens and Junts per el Yes it is a mess every day that if Catalonia, that if Spain, but then go to Madrid together and together vote against transparency in foreign policy, they vote against the government of the People's Party informing me of what they are doing in Europe. And so, we see, and we saw it forty-four hours ago, like Ciutadans, the party of President Puigdemont, the PP, the PSOE, so they voted against transparency. And they voted against transparency, not in a small question, in a phonenal question that puts at risk the democracy of the Spanish State, which puts at risk the sovereignty of Catalans. That's why it's very curious when President Puigdemont's party, which as much as fills its mouth with the sovereign word, goes to Madrid from the hand of Ciutadans to vote against the sovereign. To vote to allow a treaty such as CETA to continue to go forward and continue to commit itself from the point of view of the citizenry. You are not authorized to speak of transparency, as much as you can advertise, but we in the propaganda will not be found. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.206.0	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Ferran Pedret, representing the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.207.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members and also the people who accompany us from the public, we have presented, like the Socialist Parliamentary Group, a couple of modest papers to the government's transparency motion presented by the Ciutadans Group, and we have to thank Mr De Páramo for the fact that he took part in the transaction of one of the two papers that we presented to him. Probably the most modest, which was just a little bit more than a scapolo, that practically what it was going to do was to write a text in which, in general terms, we agreed. But he has legitimately preferred the Ciutadans Group not to assume or not to compromise the idea that he might have had more substance than the two that we had presented to him, that he was also very modest, we already recognize, but that he introduced the question of companies operating in tax havens and the fact that the Government of the Generalitat or the conjunction of the Catalan public sector did not contract them, these companies, that either operate through tax havens or end up deposing the majority of their benefits there. It is expressed as the argument that perhaps it was not just coherent with the conjunction of the motion and that they prefer to deal with it at another time, specifically. We'll find ourselves, with you and with all the groups in Parliament, to talk about these things further. But from the point of view of the coherence of the young man, let's say to him that to us it seems that this is a young man who does not try – perhaps he has no reason to do so – to deal with all the concerns that the government has ever seen with transparency and struggle against corruption, but focuses on three aspects that very legitimately worry them most at this time. At first, a question concerning the transparency of the government's external action, calling for a series of tools to facilitate parliamentary control of government action in this concrete area. I also referred to the majority group, which on other occasions did not have to vote in favour of these types of proposals which were opposed to it, which we believe are also tools for an impulse of government action and for a loyal cooperation with the external action of the Government of Catalonia, sometimes from the discrepancy, but sometimes, perhaps, from strategic coincidences. To me it seems absolutely normal that parliaments want to have a preview of the agendas of people who are dedicated to external action – not strictly the agenda of meetings, as well as the political agenda – so that they can collaborate. In fact, this is common in state parliaments and also sub-states of our most immediate environment. Then there is a second block, which would be the closest fight against corruption. And here I have to agree with Deputy Salellas, in good part he talks about themes that would better fit into the General Courts. We understand that the way in which the Government of the Generalitat is going to do so admits the possibility of voting in favour of it. Because what you are talking about is, in quite generic terms, to recover commitments from the general policy debate, to make a political debate about the need to end political pardons and outlaws. But I would agree... – and, in fact, I think the General Courts have some initiatives at this point in time that they are going in this direction – but I would agree that some of these debates are being moved to the Congress of Deputies, and therefore also to the Senate. Because, in effect, they touch competitions that are state-owned, and, moreover, because, let's say, for the effective taking of some of the rights that you want to confer on the corruption whistleblowers through this comprehensive, effectively hot law that this is produced at state level. And, besides, we'd win that we wouldn't protect only the corruption whistleblowers here, but it would happen. And then they have a third block – and I end up with this – dedicated to transparency issues, to improving the information we have not only Members of Parliament, but also citizens. And, therefore, we will vote in favour. And we have a special interest, moreover, in keeping the information on the recaptancy, the actual recapturing and the planned, in the matter of selling real assets, because this one has been one of the great failures, not only of this government, but of the former. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.208.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. The words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.209.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament..., Squad – I have not found the translation to the català of this word‘Squad': "Let there be a flood of useless things. Finally – finally – thanks to a good journalist – good journalist – who recovers words in disuse, we found the perfect definition, the most accurate definition, of the external action of this Government: jet-bore, the rain of useless things. A lot of expense in false embassies; a lot of expense in other areas without competitions, in trips not to meet anyone– with anyone–, in the best of cases, because we already know that they usually meet with radicals who would make out of their countries the Catalans. A lot of lobby spending working in the pits, and that's all so you don't get any of your targets. Therefore, it is logical that opposition parties demand transparency over this external action which, unlike social parties, have seen their resources multiplied during the worst economic crisis in our history. Recently, the syndic of hardships presented us, to the commission of the same name, his first evaluation report on transparency, access to public information and good governance. And I remember that, among other petitions, he was asking the Generalitat for leadership in what it does to transparency. Because now we have a law, we have a law of transparency, a law of which some assume a lot, but that you have a trap: we have law, but we do not have rules. This law, which was approved two years ago, has no rules to develop it. Therefore, I also take advantage of the occasion to ask the Government to assume that it is less and that it is doing its work, that it is less devoted to jetting and that it approves a regulation that develops the Law of Transparency. Leader, the syndic said, is not suspected of being the People's Party. And I say, like the philosopher Javier Gomá, that best leadership is exemplary. In this sense, and explaining the accepted message – thank you, Mr De Páramo – of the People's Party, I want to denounce a _second trap that the Government of the Generality is carrying out in order not to complete with transparency. The first, as I said, is not to approve the regulation. The other is to keep a hidden agenda. One way to link your agenda, your contacts, your agreements with other agents is to do it through lobbying. They are lobbying for these pressures on other actors in a dark way, without giving any explanation, without this Parliament knowing, and without Catalans knowing what the government is spending our money on. The Independent Diplomat lobby case was very clear. I told you a few months ago, Counselor, that this case could burst into his face if he didn't give an explanation. They stopped hiring this lobby, it's true, after paying more than a million euros a year, but the truth is they haven't given us an explanation yet. We know, yes, that this lobby produced and delivered to the Generality a monthly report of its work, reports that have to store terrible things, because they make a lot of effort to store them. But the truth is that the Members of this Parliament have right to see these reports and the government denies us this right. Besides, now it's not just a question of rights, it's a question of democratic mandate. Is this a democratic warrant? Some talk a lot about this, about democratic mandates, but only when they're interested, of course. But, look, there is a democratic mandate that forces the Generality to deliver Independent Diplomat's reports to parliamentary groups, Resolution 47/XI of the Parliament of Catalonia, on transparency in Independent Diplomat's contract. It was a motion for a resolution put forward by the People's Party and did not get the vote against by the head of parliament. In fact, he just abstained from Junts for the Yes. But the darkness continues: after the approval of the resolution, from the People's Party we have submitted to the councillor a request for information, and the councillor's response has been this, negative: that no, that is of transparency, that they will not show us the reports. Pure Castro transparency. To the democratic opposition, not water. No reports, no explanations, no information. Deleted information, with Cuba. Therefore, with our concern, we ask that the Generality apply the transparency of truth. Not the Castro transparency that pleases your partners and your advisors so much. That transparency that's so, so transparent, it's invisible to the MPs of the democratic opposition. In short, we will vote in favour of the whole motion because we do not want any more corruption or more Castro transparency, but a government than governments and what you do for everyone and with democratic transparency. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.210.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Milián. Next is the words of Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.211.0	Thank you, President. The thanks, the deputies, the deputies. Mr. De Paramo said that, and I appreciate the work, it's true that he hasn't accepted anyone's dream, has he? I guess they think he's pretty good, don't they? Okay. In fact, he accepted the emena of the PP, which still asks for more taxing Independent Diplomat and the foreign pocket, say, of the Government, and he negotiated, yes, only a term, widening a_me, say, for a more technical topic with us, that. But the papers, I say, that were trying to do, that I will now try to explain, yes, it is true, therefore, that they have remained with their initial text. That it's not a criticism – that it's not a criticism. You can be very convinced that your text is much better than any of the better ones we've put in the other groups, it doesn't happen. But I... I did, but I didn't hear you say that, did I? In any case, this..., and the..., sectioned, didn't it? Congressman Pedret just now, he's got three parts, basically, this young man. The first is about outside, actually. And now, Congressman Milián has done, therefore, a great analysis of the Generality's outside pocket, which we know is very concerned about, and that they are disconcerted, I think, more so, because one day we are Castros and..., finally, Chavists, and the other day we are Donald Trump and we are Finns don't know what..., therefore, you really carry a mental, say-so, of important magnitudes, as at least, because we are all. You see we're all out of the day. So, to me, with the least, does not honestly leave me to surprise – to surprise, with the least, no? But in any case, I think it's important to say that the government came to their parliament to explain what their work plan was at the outside level. He explained and published, already translated, and so on, because interest groups can register, and therefore, when we keep meeting with them, inform them..., and effectively publish the agenda and the journeys. Surely, you, say, what you want is, effectively, more antelacency – effectively. Because you want to boycott the Catalan agenda. Effectively. We've seen, as people from the embassy have done as students in Belgium, we've seen how they tried to suppress seminars in Warsaw, we've seen how they boycotted acts and presentations of books in Naples, etc., right? Therefore, we say, there is an interest in boycotting all the capacity that the Government of Catalonia is putting in to explain to us abroad. So, we already understand that you actually want to dynamite, don't you? , the external action of Catalonia, that you want that everything we do passes for the Spanish Embassy. But we are absolutely convinced and determined that Catalonia – in fact, as envisaged, in reality, the Statute of Autonomy – has the capacity to explain itself to the world and to do external action, and therefore we will follow it. And, therefore, this first block, which simply wants to laminate and nullify the generality's external capacity, obviously, we cannot agree, because we are working all the opposite. The second block does make reference, diguessim, to transparency. Let's just say that here City is the fourth law of disconnection, which we, therefore, find interesting, isn't it? Because they actually plant pardons, they plant outages, they plant protection of anonymous whistleblowers, which is very good, and which unfortunately this Parliament does not have the skills to do. Therefore, I am pleased that Ciutadans wants to start making the fourth law of disconnection in the matter of corruption, and therefore to have the tools of a state to be able to pull it forward. It's probably also because they don't have to get out enough to the Spanish Congress, because there, surely, it's where to do it and where there's most capacity in process issues – such as pardons, such as outages – so that I can pull it back. But in any case, welcome. Actually, we coincided with the view made by Congressman Salellas, didn't we? , which are statements of principles; unfortunately, I insist – badly. We would prefer that there were no declarations of principles, which this Parliament, indeed, could legislate in this matter; but in any case, welcome this fourth law of disconnection, we say, and, therefore, to lay these foundations of how we want it to be. Yes, we would have liked it if we had not accepted the slogan of the creation of the law, because we simply – simply – proposed that it was not the government, but that it was the parliament. That is to say, we believe that making a law in the matter of corruption must have such a broad consensus because it was a joint position or because it was the same commission of democratic regeneration study measures, that we have placed ourselves in the next session to talk about all these mechanisms and develop the Movement, which has already been approved, of the republic of zero corruption, is the best element to be able to work on this; all together, seeking the consensus of all political forces. We thought it was better that way. It's not accepted. In any case, it was thought that this was the way; so, forward. Neither will they count on our vote against at this point, but frankly we meant that we would have liked it much more to be able to work with the kind of consensus that it was defending. And the third block, and I finish, is about economics and transparency. We also agree, there is no problem. Yes, it's true, however, that what does actius sells already comes out of the liquidations of the assumptions, for what it does in 2015 and 2016, and the forecasts for 2017 come out in the preliminary project that entered us a couple of days ago, right? But in any case, it is also absolutely agreed to make a specific report if that is required in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.212.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the words of Mr. Fernando de Páramo, to pronounce on the papers. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.213.0	Okay. Thank you, Madam President. Well, today's the upside-down world. Today we can talk about propaganda and Junts pel Yes i the CUP talk about legality and talk about competences, to see if you will have..., that you have no competence to jump over the law or to declare independence, and you will not have competence to fight corruption. I think you have to do that thinking. And then, allow me, I tried to go in a good tone today, I tried to make an intervention in a positive tone, recognizing also the work of other Members throughout this intervention, and I find it regrettable, sincerely, that Mr Albano's intervention. And I would ask you for a little respect, a little respect for the work done by the other parliamentary groups. I would not think of coming here saying that this is a pamphlet, when you also do pamphlets and end-of-course work on some motions, and it is not said from the stand of this Parliament. And then also a little respect for the work of this party, because while Mr. Monedero and Mr. Pablo Iglesias were in Venezuela advising Chaves, this party was already defending the fight against corruption in Catalonia. So a little respect in that sense. [[Some applause.]] What happens to you is that you prefer to vote no to the swivel doors, to vote no to the swivel doors or not to support it or to abstain if– to abstain if, it is the same–, not to vote in favour of the swivel doors or the swivel doors before going out in the picture with Citizens, because you are unable to reach agreements with the other political forces. They have shown this at national level: all they can do is vote no. You voted no to an agreement with Mr Pedro Sánchez and the PSOE, you voted no to an agreement with Mr Mariano Rajoy. You only vote for yourselves. Even on such important issues as the fight against corruption, today the headline will be that Podemos is not in favour of ending the stumbling blocks, ending the revolving doors and ultimately ending the fight against corruption. And Mr. Gómez del Moral: there are no cuts, in corruption. I know you're making cuts in other policies, but there are no cuts. And if I have not accepted some of your amendments, it is because we are not going to decapitate the amendments and ultimately decapitate the anti-corruption proposals. And I also recognize that it must be difficult to get up in this atrium and have to defend Mr Romeva when the majority, not to say almost all the opposition, is telling him that he is not transparent in his management and that he is not transparent in his agenda and his travels. I congratulate you because it must not be an easy job. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.214.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Salellas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.215.0	Separate vote, president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.216.0	How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.217.0	We would like to vote separately points 1, 2, 3 and 3a, but as the feeling of the vote is the same in the four points, we can vote them together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.218.0	Mr. Milián, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.219.0	Yes; also by separate vote from point 6.a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.220.0	Sixth. [[Gerard Gómez del Moral and Fuster asks to speak.]] Mr. Moral Gomez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.221.0	Yes, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.222.0	Do you want a separate vote too?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.223.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.224.0	How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.225.0	Point number four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.226.0	From...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.227.0	Point number four. I, like Mr Salellas, of the 1, 2, 3, 3 bis, who in any case can also vote, as he said, jointly. And, if I may add, it's very easy for me to defend Councilman Romeva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.228.0	Mr. Fachin, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.229.0	For allusions. Fifteen seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.230.0	Yeah. Now I thought...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.231.0	Fifteen seconds. No, it's...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.232.0	No, not fifteen; I'll give you thirty, but it's thirty, Mr. Fachin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.233.0	I'm surprised... no, re. Paramo MP already warned us what the headlines would be, huh? I see that the connection between the IBEX and the great communication media that make you the job continues to work perfectly. Thank you. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-01-2602.234.0	A separate vote has been requested on points 1, 2, 3 and 3a. These four say they can vote together. Can you vote together? Yeah? [[Pause.]] And after 4th and 6th. Okay? [[Pause.]] Therefore, we will vote these first four meetings, after 4, after the 6th and after the whole vote. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, now we're voting points 1, 2, 3, 3 bis. The vote begins. Points 1, 2, 3 and 3a were rejected by 47 votes in favour, 69 against and 7 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 55 votes to 66. Then we'll vote point number 6.a. The vote begins. Point 6.a_has been approved by 107 votes to 16, with 16 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Ministry of Transparency of the Government was approved by 116 votes in favour, against and 7 abstentions. Too late for everyone. Thank you all very much. And the session goes up.
