ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.1.0	The session begins. Good morning. [[Pause.]] At the request of the Government, and as the parliamentary groups are already aware, the alteration of the order of the day has been demanded so that today, in the first place, the draft law of assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for 2016 is replaced and then the draft law of fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures; and that, you said, the oral questions to the Government and the President of the Generality are substantiated and, finally, the debate and vote on the validation of the Decree are not held at all. For this reason, it requires the chamber to comply with what is laid down in Article 81.3 of the Rules. Is it possible to agree to this proposal to alter the agenda by consent? [[Pause.]] All right, then. Before continuing, I remember the delegation of vote which, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules, made the deputy Àngels Martínez, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is possible, in the spokesman of his parliamentary group, Mr Joan Coscubiela. [[Project of the Law of Presuppositions of the Generalitat of Catalonia for 2016 (expressions to the totality)]] [[200-00006/11]] We open this plenary with the debate and vote of the papers to the totality of the draft law of assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for the year 2016. The debate and voting of the items to the totality will be substantiated in accordance with the establishment of Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. The order of defence of the documents is from major to minor, for a maximum of thirty minutes for each parliamentary group. In the first place, for the presentation of the bill, has the words of Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.2.0	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, MPs, MPs, President of the Government, Councillors and Councillors. Let's start this discussion about assumptions knowing that the assumptions probably won't push forward because the reviews to the full so they'll stop it. Even so, it is also obvious that this is an opportunity, if not by convincing different groups that allow for presuppositional processing, that it is a good opportunity to go to the citizenry, to go to the city council and also to address, allow me, many of the voters of some of the groups that today will not allow the processing, that we are sure that they share with the government's proposal..., the bonds of this proposal. I started my presentation by making some reflections about the general situation, the economic situation, the macroeconomic situation, which is instrumental in helping to understand what is the reality of the presupposition proposal that we are bringing to this Parliament today. They are also concerned with a reflection that seems to us to be absolutely appropriate and that, in the end, the assumptions, especially in this case, especially in the case of this presuppositionary proposal, that it is a proposal in many senses, expansive... – remember that the proposal includes an increase in the presuppositionary endowment by departments of 5.3_percent and, therefore, it is a much more important growth than, for example, the growth of GDP – therefore, before some presuppositions expansive in these magnitudes, the first presuppositions expansive, the first presuppositions really expansive, the first presuppositions really expansive than, for example, the growth of GDP – therefore, before some presuppositions expansive in these dimensions, the first presuppositions actually expansive, the first presuppositions actually expansive from many years agos, from the years of the deeper crisis, therefore, this presuppositionary proposal, these countries, the presuppositions of our countries, the presuppositions, the presuppositions, the presuppositions of our countries. Because, in the end, the assumptions are to a great extent... especially because of what it does to the total available, they are the result of the tax effort, of the taxes that pay the conjunction of our citizens throughout the tax system. From VAT to the IRPF, from tax on companies to special companies, etc.; from taxes that are appropriate to us, to taxes that we have, or taxes that are not suitable for us or tax that we have at these times. Therefore, the assumptions are the presuppositional availability, the increase in the presuppositional availability, these 1,100_million more in the presuppositional availability that we can approve today, are the result of the effort of the conjunction of our citizens. And therefore, it is clear that who should not be the recipient of the benefits that come from this effort, expressed in these 1,100_million plus, 873_million of which, destined for the conjunction of social policies..., the recipients, the beneficiaries of this premise, of this presuppositional expansion, must necessarily be, in this proposal, the same citizens, who are the origin of these resources. It is precisely for this reason that the assumptions are based on citizenship, on two great concepts, on two great powers, on two great spheres: one, on social policies, on these 873 million more, destined for social policies, and also on the whole, aimed at the impulse of the growth of the economy, at the impulse of the continuity of the growth of the economy, because the objective of any parliament and of any government, at least from our point of view, of any responsible government is and must be necessary, not only to put in place good assumptions for the current exercise, but to do everything that is available to ensure that future assumptions also continue without good assumptions. And since the future presuppositional availability depends enormously on the behaviour of our economy, it is also very important that, at the expense of very high social parties..., in fact, this increase in the presuppositional availability, of this increase of more than 1,100_million in the presuppositional availability – that it is obvious that if these assumptions are not processed today and we continue with the foresight, we will not tend to dispose of our fellow citizens–, 78,5_percent of this increase was intended for these social policies, and this raises the total of the social policy budget to 73.6_percent. Therefore, a twofold objective: to solve shortcomings, to solve problems, to solve the sufferings suffered by the citizens in social terms, especially those in a situation of greater vulnerability, those in a situation of greater patience; but also to ensure that it has continued in the process of economic growth to ensure that the future recovery, to ensure that future fiscal provisions continue to feed good assumptions that will continue to guarantee social services that are the best possible for our citizens. That's why we're also addressing each other, in a practical way today, so let's go, in the city, to make them a recognizance of this effort they've made at this time, but also to make them a recognizance of the effort those assumptions wanted them to return. He said, therefore – and it seems to me that it is logical that this, linked to what I have just said – is that the first reflections are reflections around the square of the general economic context, of the macroeconomic context of our country. In part, because they explain the presuppositional availabilities that today we can also process because they are the hope of good presuppositions for the future. The Catalan economy, as you know, grew the past year, the year 2015, a 3.4_per_cent. It is more than twice as much as the euro area average and it is more than twice as much as the European Union average. Therefore, it is more than twice the average of our economic environment. It is, therefore, a rising growth, it is a robust growth. A robust growth that has some of its fundamental explanations in a certain recovery of household consumption, family consumption, thanks to the process of deleveraging family economies and the deleveraging of our businesses. And, sadly, it's still not so good, it's the result of the increments in the per capita income and in the middle entrances of our people, which you know are still one of the folds pending and of the folds that any government – this, obviously, in the face – would want to face. So, what is the purpose of this growth? First element, the recovery of family consumption, the result of this process of deleveraging, and above all – above all – the result of the external sector. Ours is, fortunately, an open economy; fortunately, a very open economy. And this open economy shows its forts, shows the best symptoms, for example, in the fact that, for a few years now, we have been exercising, breaking the export record and, therefore, we have never exported as much as in these years of crisis; we have never exported as much as in 2015; we have never exported as much as in 2016. The same good behavior in this external sector we see in the case of tourism, or we see, for example, in the case of foreign investment. Last year, he also remembered history in foreign investment, more than 5,000_million in foreign investment. And, in general terms, Europeans, even non-EUs, fourth economy receiving foreign investment, returning to the metropolitan areas of London, Moscow and the joint venture of Scotland. The fourth was Catalonia. And for what it does to tourism, not only good data respects 2015, but also good data, as in exports, respects the first quarter of 2016, and good advanced data respects the behavior of this summer and, therefore, of the behavior of the second i, functionally, of the third trimester. In fact, these assumptions are based on the conviction that the growth of the economy will continue to feel a robust growth. And foresight is a prediction that seems realistic to us, they understand that realism is the highest expression of ambition, because there is nothing more ambitious than trying to be as realistic as possible. And, therefore, the growth forecast is a 2.9_per_cent forecast. It is a prediction that the growth of the first quarter seems to be insoluble, not only taking into account the behaviour of the economy in the previous fiscal year – an increase of 3,4 – but also that the growth of the first quarter was 0,8 and, therefore, on an annual basis of 3,7, but also relevant – so, 3,7 are eight tenths higher than the 2.9 forecast by the end of the fiscal year – that, usually – the second and third quarters are always better than the first, and therefore, despite the uncertainties that inevitably exist in the horizons when they are long and, therefore, the uncertainties that may arise from the fourth quarter, it is clear that an objective of 2,9 in the first seems realistic. If we overcome it – if we overcome it –, so good it is..., if we overcome it is obvious that this will involve more resources, more capacity also in our presuppositional availabilities for the future. Here, one thought that seems to me particularly relevant, not in percentage terms, but in absolute terms. And it's also good to face economic and presuppositional debates with absolute figures, then we'll do it with concrete parts of the presupposition, now we've also done some reflections around the global behavior of our economy. It meant that absolute figures were extraordinarily significant at these times. And here's an example that seems to me especially pedagogical, especially clear. For a few years, for many years, unfortunately, we have become accustomed to saying and we have become accustomed to feeling – because it was so – that Catalonia's gross domestic product was 200,000_million euros. Fortunately, the behaviour of year 15, the behaviour of year 16 and our forecasts respect the behavior of year 17 will place us at the end of this year in a gross domestic product of 223,000_million euros, and at the end of the year it sees in a gross domestic product of 232,000_million euros. They are not trivial figures, it is not enough to explain them and remind them, because an increase in absolute terms of our gross domestic product of 32,000_million euros also implies a greater tax base for the future, and therefore also a greater capacity to make our social services sustainable. Without the growth of our economy, without a robust and diversified growth of our economy, and to a large extent robust because it is diversified, it would certainly be impossible to hold expectations about the future sustainability of our public services. And fortunately, the behaviour of our economy allows us to have this hope and conviction. Therefore, the growth of the economy is, fortunately, positive, and our prediction is that I continue to feel this way in this exercise and in the exercise of 2017, and that I situate it, for example– and here I link it with a reflection of more social character – for the first time in many years, under the 15_per_cent of the time in issues of active population inquiry. A figure that will continue to be far removed from that which all of us would certainly want and will continue to feel, therefore, a reason for our efforts – I am sure of our efforts – but, in any case, much better than the figures we have experienced in the past few years and with a better than extraordinary positive behavior, despite the way it is to go. In this sense, expressed in terms of GDP, I would also like to make a reflection: these days we have felt various times – and I understand that it is certain, reflection, and, therefore, that I can reproduce it without fear of mistaken me – that the economic representatives of the Spanish Government state that, roughly, one third of all the growth of the euro area is growth of Spanish GDP. If that's true, and I don't have a reason to doubt it, you will also accept that, expressed in these terms, 9_percent of the euro area's growth conjunction is growth of Catalan GDP. And since this growth of our GDP at these times, fortunately, is translated to a great extent..., there is a strong propensity to reduce the weather, so it's a given, a sense of doubt, a positive one. It is true that behavior... – and this is, obviously, a challenge that we should strive to overcome – it is true that these positive data, from a macroeconomic perspective, are not adequately translated into the welfare of our citizens. Precisely because it is certain that they are not adequately translated into the welfare of our citizens, this presuppositional proposal is a presuppositional proposal that to a large extent concentrates its efforts precisely to solve the social problems that our citizens have raised in so many areas. Precisely for this reason, of this increase in the presuppositional availability, which in terms of availability for departments represents an increment of 5.3_per_cent, of all this increment, 78.5_per_cent is destined for these social policies. Because we are convinced that the social cohesion of our country, that the behaviour of our educational system, of our health system, of our social benefits, that this social cohesion, that this guarantee around social justice and equal opportunities, that the 500_millions of resources we have in the field of research, innovation and universities are also, together, a guarantee of the future well-being of our society. Therefore, a positive behaviour in global terms of our economy that is not adequately reflected in the welfare of our citizens, and that is why the presuppositional proposal is very much focused, precisely, on solving these social problems. Why is there this gap? Why is there this temporal and quantitative difference between the behaviour of the economy and the fiscal effort made by our citizens, our businesses, our workers and the presuppositional availability in social terms, in terms of social policies? You are a good connoisseurs, because we have had occasion to debate it extensively in this chamber and it is a debate, fortunately... – I am not convinced that ‘fortunately' – it is also a general debate in our society many years ago. I will limit myself to this question, which could obviously be the subject of a lengthy treatment and which has merited, to the point of doubt, many hours of debate in this Parliament and in the joint venture of our society..., I will limit myself to remembering some elements around which I am convinced that there is a huge consensus. And, in fact, I will try to express it in such a way that this consensus is maximum and, if it can be unanimous, better. From the outset, it is clear that the fiscal effort made by the citizens of Catalonia does not impact on the benefits of the citizens of Catalonia adequately, surely. In other words, among many others? For example, in a question around which I'm sure there can be no discussion and it is that, systematically, the beasts are calculated at the bottom. There can be no discussion about this fact because, effectively, all the years, without exception, have been calculated at the bottom. They can discuss why they were calculated at the lower level, whether or not they were proposed – an exciting discussion – but what is unquestionable is that, no matter what, the beasts have been calculated at the lower level. Not only that, but the liquidation of these beasts, in the current system, should be done at the end of two years, and you know that, in general, it is done at the end of two years and seven months. It is clear that this creates a very significant gap between the fiscal effort of the citizens and the reception that these citizens receive in the form of impulses to the economy and also in the form, also, of social services. In this sense, in the form of parentheses in the speech – and this is not the first time I hear myself say it, it seems to me that it will be the third time I hear myself say it since this Faristol – in honor of the truth, to which we always and without exception always serve, this year is the first year in which part of the liquidation did not occur at the end of two years and seven months, but part of the liquidation occurred at the end of two years and three months. Better, it's better. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Therefore, I see Mr. García Albiol who sits with his head, certainly, he is fine – he is fine – explain it, let's say it. Still, our phone argument continues to be absolutely valid – valid –: the beasts are calculated systemically at low and are liquid, in general, at the end of two years and set_months. This, for example, explains why in this financial year 2016 there is a positive liquidation of the financial year 2014 worth 1,400_million euros, which, in doubt sense, helps to present assumptions that are better – in doubt sense. But exactly the same argument – exactly the same argument – serves to explain that the beasts of this year 2016 are continuing to calculate downwards and thus erode the possibility that this is a assumption with better arguments – exactly the same argument. On the distribution of the floor, we also had intense and lengthy and repeated debates. And it seems to me that there is also a huge consensus here: practically everyone– except, to me, one of the agents who intervene in these types of negotiations–, all of them agree that the ground of deficiency is unjust, it is arbitrary– meaning doubt is arbitrary, because the arbitrator of one of the agents who intervene in it, let's say it; therefore, sure that it is arbitrary, by definition– it is unjust – it is unjust–, because that's what everyone says– everyone–, starting with the Air Force and continuing with the Presuppositional and Finance Act, which, as you know, is not completely complete on the part of the Spanish Government. Therefore, these sure elements do not help in any way to dispose of the resources that we would like at these times. And here is another reflection around the floor of the deficiency, which you know we do not share in absolute terms for these arguments that I have just explained. I've tried to be brief, I've tried to be succinct in this argumentary, because I seem to have treated it enough. If necessary, please enter it with as many details as possible in the subsequent debate or in the subsequent parliamentary debates which are produced, which, in the sense of doubt, will be produced in this Parliament. Therefore, a reflection, now, on this remedy of deficiency which, as you know, we do not share, that it is unjust, that there is a huge consensus that it is unjust and that, beyond our conviction that it is arbitrary and that it is unjust, there is also another conviction that it is clearly counterproductive. It is clearly counterproductive because it softens the fonaments, weakens the engines of our economic growth. Therefore, from a very pragmatic point of view, it also enhances our capacity for future recapitation, and, therefore, it enhances our presuppositional readiness to face the basic services of our citizens. And then, another question around that, and it's that neither the deficit nor the debt are trivial realities, they're not trivial. Debt is not a trivial economic data, absolutely. It's a given phone economic; it's so phone-friendly from the economic point of view that it's also phone-friendly from the political point of view. It has been so immense, so big, not for our economy in particular, but for the conjunction of the economies of our environment, in many cases very much above – in terms of relation to ours; it has been so fundamental, so central, that it has been a political element of first order. The deficit, therefore, and the debt that was going on, is not less sustainable in absolute – it is not less sustainable in absolute – because, in the end, it represents present consumption that will not be available in the form of consumption in the future, because we have spent it in the present, and, therefore, in the future it will have to return. It is therefore unquestionable that the deficit should be used, and it is used to a great extent, and to a large extent seems to us to be clearly insufficient to solve the problems that we have raised at the present time in order to boost our economic activity and to guarantee our social services, but it is also obvious – it is also obvious – that we do not have to manage as responsibly as possible in order to avoid passing on to future generations an intergenerational debt from which they will not benefit, and in turn will be paying. And, therefore, it seems to me that trivializing the deficit or the debt is a huge mistake and a huge irresponsibility insisting – insisting – that, from our point of view, it is obvious that at this point in time it is a tool that is used insufficiently to deal with many of the needs, not only social, but also economic; but that, in any case, the guarantee of the goodness of the assumptions present and future also passes through a management responsible for a reality that at these times, unfortunately, we are not yet in a position to change as deeply as we would like, although we prepare ourselves to do so. This reflection, which can also be complemented in the turn-ups or in future debates and which seems to us to be absolutely fundamental, I explain this distribution, these two great pots, these two great ambits on which this presuppositional proposal walks – it walks at these moments, perhaps some hours ago –; a presuppositional proposal based on two great ambits. I will start with the smaller field, from the impulse to economic activity, and I will end with the larger field, which is that of social policies. These assumptions, in order to guarantee the continuity of this economic growth, in order to guarantee the impulse of economic activity and, therefore, in order to guarantee, also, our future recaptancy and our future availability, previews almost 500_million euros in the field of research, innovation, as well as the fundamental motors of our future economy: 500_million euros. It also provides for the deployment of technology innovation core programs, the promotion of technological cooperation between companies and research centres, and the consolidation of new technology centres integrated into Technology and Eurecat. You foresee all the support for entrepreneurship, among other things through the deployment of the RIS3CAT strategy framework. An increase – an increase – in the reversal of the growth of the occupation of almost 100_million euros, 98,7_million euros. Provide for an increase – provide for an increase – in the resources earmarked for the promotion of almost 100_million euros occupation. The continuity of the role of the Catalan Institute of Finance, which, as you know, has strengthened deeply in the past, which forms part of the partnership of the European public bank, which forms part of the board of directors of the European public bank and which has obtained the necessary banking modules to act as a bank, with the sole exception of the collection of private deposits. An entity, therefore, a promotional bank, a bank intended for the promotion of productive activity that is playing a very responsive role, each time more responsive, and that we are convinced that it can continue to play in the future if circumstances so permit. Also in the promotion of the tourism sector, with the deployment of twenty-four brands and product segments, and the consolidation, also, of the marketing platform of the Experience Catalunya, with 118_million euros. The promotion of trade and also the promotion of agriculture, in this case with an increase... – if this is done by approving these assumptions, at the end of July – with an increase, also of 170_million euros in the impulse of agricultural activities, of agricultural distribution, etc. I am now going to explain the phonenal data in areas of social character. The record, as I explained a while ago, that the increase in departmental presuppositional availability, is to say, the conjunction of departments, is a 5.3_per_cent. To avoid any doubt, much over – much over – growth expressed in terms of GDP. An increase that is concentrated – we say a moment ago and it seems to me that it is good to remember it as many times as ever and as many times as possible – in a 78.5_per_cent in social policies that bring to the conjunct of the presupposition a 73.6_per_cent in social policies, that means phoneically greeting, education, social matters, etc. And I give some examples, some of these linked to the shock plan that was compromised and that to a large extent it is obvious that it is linked to the presuppositional availability. It is good to bear in mind – it is good to bear in mind – that the difference between a new presumption and a extension may be a smaller difference in the case of the proposed new presumption, and perhaps approved, is very much in line with the previous presumption. Adopting a presupposition that is very much in the past or extending the previous one may be a minor difference in character, but it is clear that if what is at stake is the adoption of a strongly expanding presupposition in these areas, the alternative of staying on the sidelines has extremely severe consequences for the impulse of economic activity and, above all, extremely difficult in guaranteeing social services. They are not assumptions that meet the previous assumptions; they pose on the table 1,100_million more euros, of which 873_million in social areas, of which I will now set some example and, therefore, their non-approval has very serious consequences on the availability of these resources in the form of social services. I have some of the examples that were planned, which are provided for in these assumptions. Increase of the endowment for fooder scholarships that will allow to reach the 22,430 aids worth 12_million euros; call of fooder scholarships from zero to three years, llars of public infants that benefit 7,600 more infants, worth 10,000_million euros; contract of doccent personnel for centres of maximum complexity, 142 endowments, worth 1,7_million euros. The reminders that the extension gives a room for manoeuvre on staff issues equal to zero. And I repeat, because I interpret his silence as an exhibition of interest for this given that I have just explained: the memory that the extension implies a margin of manoeuvre in the field of staff of zero. I keep going. Reduction of 50_percent of the time in the first visit waiting lists to specialist and diagnostic tests, by 96_million euros; reduction of 10_percent of the surgical waiting lists; re-opening and recovery of CAP and CUAP times by 1.2_million euros; increase of the minimum insertion income by 35,5_million euros; minimum insertion income, subsidies to the insertion for a thousand more people, apart from what we have previously said, 34,5; increase of residential places of care to large people and to people with disabilities, 37_million euros; emergence of housing and prevention policy and disclaimer by poor economic and social causes, 10_milions of subdivisions; mestration of social contexts; restoration of social contexts; restoration of social contexts; restoration of social contexts 10 And all this is only a share linked to the shoal, which has an estimated value of about 285_million euros, but remember that the combination of social proposals brings us to 873_million euros. It is clear that the extension makes it very difficult to allocate this estalvi, this estalvi in interests – in interests – destined for the payment of the debt service, a reduction, approximately, of 50_per_cent, of some 850_million, which we can allocate to these social policies. And therefore, who will pay for the consequences are the citizens, they are the users of these social services. It will not pay the consequences of this Parliament, in abstract and impersonal terms, it will pay the consequences of the users of these social services. Presumables which, as we say, are not only intended to guarantee social services and the betterment of social services and endowments in the present field, but are also intended to guarantee, from a band, the impulse of economic activity in order to allow our economy to continue to grow in the terms relating to and also in the absolute terms to which I referred earlier, but also in the availability of tools to make effect and to maximize the availability of resources resulting from this economic growth and, therefore, in this sense, the deployment of tax agency. Why, if we have to fight the tax fraud, we have to have the necessary tools to fight it; if we have to fight it, we have to take responsibility for the tax figures, because if we don't have it and we're not the ones who charge it, who handles it, and who has the knowledge, how can we fight where we simply don't have information because these taxes are not taxes that we can manage? And therefore, the deployment of this tax agency with the objective of maximizing the quality of the knowledge we have, of the management we have, note that at these times we manage 5_percent of the fiscal effort of our citizens– 5_percent, 5_percent– and, therefore, it is clear that if we want to be responsible for it, a higher percentage, so much so that this higher percentage is 6_percent as cent, in all cases what is obvious is that we have to assume the responsibilities and we have to have the necessary tools to do so, especially if this endowment can still be used to save resources. Or, for example, in the field of deployment of our external, substantive projection from all points of view, from the point of view, obviously, politically, cultural, economic, etc., among other things, because those things that we want to look at from the most pragmatic and more immediate and more numerical view, it is worth remembering that this country has exports worth EUR 64,000_million and, therefore, everything we do in this sense is, surely, positive, and there is no money that makes more than the money we have in this projection, that allows us to get a return of this magnitude absolutely extraordinary. And beyond that, obviously, with all the political ambition that corresponds to us and that the citizens of Catalonia legitimize us, how we train that they legitimized us in the elections of 27 September. Some of the reflections were fond. It is obvious that I cannot process and therefore may approve these assumptions will deprive us of many of these tools, of these instruments and of these resources which I have just explained and which I will like to have occasion to re-explain when you give me occasion on the return of the reply that I am approaching. It is obvious that if we do not train and, therefore, ultimately do not approve, we will have fewer tools and fewer resources. It is also clear that our duty, our responsibility is always to act, precisely, with the greatest possible responsibility, trying to manage the reality that we have in front of us, reality that, to a good extent, we try to change and that, to a good extent, we, the Government, in this case, do not have sufficient tools to change the sun, because it is obvious that there is no absolute parliamentary majority of the parliamentary group that make up this Government – it is obvious. But it is also obvious that we have all the will and we have all the sense of responsibility to manage contexts for the following complex; in fact, we have faced extraordinary difficult contexts, much harder than not this, however difficult this may be or may seem at this time and, therefore, we are convinced that we are perfectly capable of getting out. And yes – and yes – many of us agree, I'm sure it is, that we agree, and, if not, let me express myself in hypothetical terms. And yes, it is clear that many of us would agree – at least, in time, we have agreed in the past – to say that it is necessary that the institutions have the necessary tools to deal with their commitments, their policies, their plans of government action; the institutions, of the type that follow, the Barcelona Assembly, so many cities and towns in our country, so many institutions in so many moments of our recent and most remote history, and, consequently, we have acted to promote the availability of these tools and the availability of these instruments, perhaps it would also be good for this reflection to take place today. Because, I insist, it is obvious that to approve assumptions that are very different in total assumptions, okay, I can, no problem, hear – hear – that there are legitimate differences around whether it should be a little bit more or a little less, or even if it should be two little differences. But probably – probably – those who oppose parliamentary processing will do so with clearly counterposed arguments. Some, because they think it should be a little more like this, and others because they think it should be a little more like this. And all the difference is legitimate – all the difference is legitimate – but it is obvious that if it is not processed and cannot be negotiated in parliamentary proceedings, the end result will be that it is not a little more like this or a little more like this, it is that they will be far removed from that which supposedly argues that the processing is not born. The result will be that we'll be in a much longer scene from that scene that's used to argue that processing isn't going to happen. And, therefore, from my point of view and from the point of view of the Government – and I fully understand that perhaps you will not share it or say that you do not share it – but it is obvious that it is much better to face the processing and to face the possibility of negotiation than not, with clearly opposed arguments from each other and from beyond, all legitimate ones, it is not possible to prevent the processing. Because he's gonna put us in a much longer scene than the one he's supposed to justify today's not allowed, if it's finally not allowed, processing. [[Perlongats applause.]] And, finally, listen'm, all our compromises to face the difficulties. It's obvious that we didn't come here to just do things that were simple, maybe we didn't come here to make it simple. We were all perfectly aware, when we took on the responsibility to form this government, to form these major parliaments, that the scenes are serious complicated, sense of doubt, because the reality that surrounds us is complicated and because the daily reality of many of our fellow citizens is extremely complicated. And, therefore, he demands from all of us the maximum compromise. And no doubt – no doubt – that this compromise is and will be there. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.3.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. First talk to the totality, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To defend it, has the word Mr. Antonio Espinosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.4.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Vice-President, Vice-Presidents, Members and citizens who are accompanying us in the rostrum, as you know, the Parliamentary Group of Citizens has tabled an amendment to the whole of which, of course, we are not just going to maintain, but we are going to defend. Allow me, however, to initiate this intervention with a temporary and political contextualization of the draft budgets that have brought us from the Government. From a temporary point of view, it is clear that from 2012 onwards the governments of the Generalitat have repeatedly, year after year, delayed the presentation of budgets. And that wasn't by chance, it wasn't because. It has its explanation in the fact that after embracing Convergence the independentist ideology, political instability has been increasing and has been dividing the chamber and society, too. This division limits, limits the government in its possibilities of pact and agreement, and limits the government to pact only with independentists, and this, of course and irremediably, results in increasing difficulty in approving budgets, to the extent that we seem to be engaged in a definitive extension of the 2016 ones from 2015. Since 2012 the governments of the Generalitat have settled in a fiction called « sovereignist and independenceist process ; a fiction that has allowed the governments of Mr. Mas, with the complicity of Esquerra, to make cuts of 6,000_million that have worsened and damaged the well-being of Catalans. That's right, always transferring responsibility from it to perfidious Spain, huh? , to the oppressor Spain, and hiding the poor management of the governments of the Generalitat. But that sacrifice we've had for five years, is there any point? Not at all. At the same time – at the same time – during the same years the debt of the Generalitat has increased from 35,000 to 72,000. We find, therefore, that, today, we have the honor that the Autonomous Community of Catalonia is the most indebted in Spain and that the Catalans are on the podium of the most indebted citizens of Spain. It is not necessary to know much economy to be able to conclude that the management of a government that cuts services, while increasing our debts, is bad; let me say: "It is bad of solemnity. In the current government of Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras they want to continue with comedy, with the theatrical representation covering their mismanagement. That is why they have been praying and entrusting themselves to the CUPs for days, to continue feeding the farce. But, as we all know, prayers to the devil – and let me, it's just a metaphor, it's an allegory, no..., huh? – they don't usually give good results, they don't usually have good effects. But, well, every comedy, ladies and gentlemen, is coming to an end, and today we are witnessing one of the last acts of a theatrical performance that already lasts too long, which unfortunately is already exaggerated, which is beginning to bore and even to tire, the citizens. Today we are witnessing the inability of the government, of the parliamentary group that supports them, too, to find alliances and agreements with other groups in the chamber, and it is that, as I said before: "Independence, far from being the redemptive liberation that some sell, is proving to be the corset that stifles us, as many of us have already anticipated. Independentist ideology, far from enabling the agreement and the pact for Catalonia to emerge from the crisis, to recover the path of economic growth and well-being, is a loser. Yes, a clear slab, a clear obstacle to reaching consensus in Parliament and in Catalan society, and it is putting Catalonia at the feet of horses. Well, it is putting Catalonia in the hands of the CUP and its strategy: a strategy of disobedience and continuous confrontation, a strategy that would only bring back and harm to the people of Catalonia, to Catalan society. It's a good thing – it's a good thing – that our CUP colleagues are consistent. Ladies and gentlemen, it is curious and a scandalous point that the Government of the Generalitat considers that the financing model is exhausted when it represents 83_percent of the revenue for Catalonia, and when, according to the budgets themselves, non-financial revenue increases, above all, as a result of the increase of the 1,407_million_euro corresponding to the liquidation of 2014. Let me mention here a few..., referring to the words of the former vice president and economic adviser, he said, that the advances are always, year after year, calculated downwards. Well, I have to correct it, because precisely if we read precisely the budget advances, revenue from advances, we see that we have to be returning – we have to be returning – 124_million_euros in this year – they are budgeted for this year – precisely because of the oversettling that took place for..., in relation to the years 2008 and 2009. Therefore, "always, always, never, eh? Well, I go..., I also want to refer to the words of Mr Junqueras who says: "No, we can only manage 5_per_cent of our taxes, of our taxes. Another falsity – another falsity. Look, we collect 5_per_cent of the taxes, some taxes given and own, that's 3,300_million, but we manage – we manage – 17,200_million more, which come from VAT, IRPF, corporate tax and so on. We therefore manage much more and we mismanage, Mr Junqueras. Let us continue: ladies and gentlemen, I was saying that it is curious and a scandalous point that we are being told that the economic situation is improving, but that it is not reflected in the finances of the Generalitat. And it is scandalous because, at the same time, we are told that the Government renounces the financing system, the modification of the financing system. Instead of the Government of the Generalitat putting its efforts into negotiating a new model and implementing it to improve funding, we are told that the funding model is exhausted. Good. Instead of seeking support and complicity with other autonomous communities to change that, there is an incomprehensible neglect on the part of the Government and one of its main functions: to improve the current funding system; to improve precisely so that the contributions are much more proportional to the fiscal capacity of the people and are received proportionally to the needs of the population. That is the way, negotiating in that direction, negotiating in that..., seeking that fairness of the whole system, not of a particular benefit. It seems that you have renounced this and say that you have passed the screen, that the goal, now, is independence, the separation of Spain, and the exit of Europe. Well, well – they don't say that, but it's the logical corollary. We find it surprising that they tell us that getting a new financing agreement is more difficult, it is impossible and, instead, they believe it is possible to create a new state outside Spain and outside the European Union. It's really amazing. They want to get, ladies and gentlemen – they want to get some – to disconnect themselves from the rest of the Spaniards, but what they have achieved is to disconnect themselves from reality. That's how I see it, that's how we see it in Citizens. No one with climbing knowledge intends to climb an eight_th mile, if he is not able to climb a two_th mile, it is evident. Look, in Citizens we want to change the funding system. We think there is room for this, but for..., and precisely, we do so so that the Spaniards – whether Catalan, Andalusian, Galician – contribute according to their fiscal capacity and receive according to their needs. This is how Catalonia and other communities will have more money, more resources to apply where they need to: education, health, social policies, justice, and boosting our economy and creating jobs. And we will do it – and we will do it, because every day we will have more capacity for it – with the support or without the support of the Government of the Generalitat. We hope, at least, that we do not have those against us. Naturally these budgets could not leave the independence factory without referring to the fiscal deficit in Catalonia and suffering from the topics and deceptions that characterize independence. Mr. Junqueras continues to confuse, rather, he continues – do you allow me? – to some extent by deceiving the Catalans with the fiscal deficit figures set out in the budgets and that, again, we are in the, already tired, 15,000, 16,000_million. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, please ask them to exercise intellectual honesty and offer the data, the data calculated by the different calculation systems. The former economic adviser already did so and was able to show us how Catalonia's deficit turned out to be, in 2015, 1.6_per_cent of Catalan GDP. Nothing of 16,000_million, nothing of 8.5 of GDP, but, I insist, 1,6_per_cent of GDP, and of course calculated by the method of burden/benefit, the most logical, the most sensible, unless one logically wants to victimize himself. If you were ignorant, I would recommend the book The Tales and Tales, by Josep Borrell. But at this point I think that yours is more serious, I'm afraid it's bad faith. But we Citizens have not tabled an amendment to the whole of these budgets nor are we opposed to them only because they are at the service of independence, no. We have tabled an amendment in its entirety because they are bad budgets for Catalans. Naturally, in Citizens we share his will to... Naturally in Citizens we do not share his will to waste, to squander money and resources in the construction of an impossible Catalan republic. We prefer to build schools and hospitals, and to combat poverty and inequalities. Look, in Citizens, unlike what you intend to create a Catalan republic that reduces the perimeter... [[Funnel veils]] , yes, yes, listen to me well: you intend to reduce the perimeter of justice and distributive and solidarity. That's what you're trying to do. And exclude the rest of the Spaniards from that perimeter. Yes, yes, to say: "They are there to pick them up – they are there to pick them up. We, this way; you, there you are. The perimeter of solidarity and justice, huh? We'll load it up. Well, look, in front of that, Citizens isn't about that job. Citizens want to extend this perimeter to all of Europe – to all of Europe. We want to build an area, the European, at least, of justice, equality and greater freedom, not smaller. At this point, after what I have said, I suppose it is not very difficult for them to understand that we do not want a euro to be wasted on programmes whose aim is to sell the separatist process abroad. And, logically, we do not agree that the departure of outsiders, in the matter of selling the separatist project, will experience an increase of 50_per_cent in these budgets, and, moreover, it has already been fivefold since 2012. Ladies and gentlemen, the waste is so obvious that they have even had to change the indicator that measures the efficiency of the programme. Yes, yes..., they have had to replace the number of visits by government members with representatives of institutional bodies of the European Union. I mean, they've had to change that, because, since no one gets them, the program would be a failure, it would be a stupendous failure. Of course, that is a test of the sad and obvious waste you do. Nor do we share the budget of 12,6_million for a tax agency serving independence. We want a tax agency at the service of taxpayers, at the service of better collection, at the service of a more effective collection that fights tax fraud. We could agree with a resized tax agency, in that we could agree. But logically, to make tax fraud more effective, but you don't really want that. What they seek is to supplant the state agency and create one of its so-called state structures. You are willing to do even by sacrificing effectiveness. And that will surely happen – it will certainly happen – if they hastefully and improperly withdraw the management and settlement of the taxes to the current liquidating offices dependent on the property records. Look, we are committed to close collaboration and coordination with the state agency and the state agency – and the state agency – with the rest of the states, especially, logically, those of the European Union. That is the only effective way to combat tax fraud; a fraud of thousands and billions that, in addition to being unfair, prevents that money from being used to improve the lives of millions and millions of people. Therefore, it is not a matter of replacing one agency with another, but of coordinating agencies and efforts, and collecting more. Look, Mr. Junqueras' presentation seemed to have not found out that the fight against tax fraud and tax havens is transnational – transnational. The fact that we donate a little bit to the Tax Agency is not going to be more effective in the fight against fraud; it is not going to be if it is not perfectly coordinated, and it should already be, huh? – it should already be – with the Spanish agency and with those of the rest of Europe. Good. But we understand that we want to raise more, indeed. That's why we put the accent where we think we have to do it: on the tax bases, not on the guys. That is why we emphasize employment, because we consider that the main fiscal problem in Catalonia and Spain is employment. If in Spain and Catalonia we had the unemployment rate at levels equivalent to the rest of Europe..., look, it turns out..., that is, you know, around 10_per_cent, the result would be that we would have a continued structural surplus; that is, we wouldn't have to worry about the collection, we wouldn't have to worry about raising guys, we wouldn't have to worry about... Well, ladies and gentlemen, let us continue with the budget analysis. What does this budget tell us about the public media in Catalonia? As we continue with the most expensive television in Spain, we continue with the highest average salaries of all the televisions in Spain. We, believe me, agree that the workers recover their rights, but it turns out that there is a rise in salaries of 7.63 in the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. That in the public entity, because in the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, SA, is 10.87. And we certainly know that it responds to an update of previously frozen wages, but let me tell you that other public workers see how this budget does not collect a euro, eh? , for the refund of the 2012 extra payment. I guess the differences in treatment are due to the will to give priority to information plurality, right? Surely that's where the reward goes. Although, honestly, you'll understand that if you're a little misunderstanding – just a little, huh? Not much, just a little bit, huh? – we will..., there are plenty of reasons to suspect that the services provided to independence are also being paid for. But I told them that we didn't oppose these budgets just because of independence, because of the independence they contain, we also do it because they're bad budgets. [[Pause.]] Budgets that will not give hope back to the vast majority of the 660,000 Catalan unemployed and especially to the 94,000 under 25, or to the 101,000 older than 50, according to the latest Labour Force Survey. These budgets are also not going to return the illusion and hope to the vast majority of the million and a half people at risk of social exclusion, nor to the 110,000 children in Catalonia who suffer severe material deprivation. From a social point of view, budgets can be described as very inadequate. They have certainly put an end to cuts and represent a slight advance, we recognize it; but, after years and years of cuts, increasing social spending is that it becomes a demand, an unreplaceable requirement for any government with a minimum of social sensitivity. But, nevertheless, let me – let me – tell you that the amounts of social spending are very far from the amounts of 2010. And strikingly it turns out that in these budgets, in education and health, huh? , the budget grows below the average that it does in all departments. And especially considering that since 2010 the health budget has been cut and cut and cut, as has education or social protection. Naturally, when we hear him... – today he has not pronounced it, because, of course [[the timer riu]] ..., but the day he presented them in Parliament he did say them – he said: "Man, we are facing the most social budgets of history. Paraphrasing Minister Montoro, then, the truth is that what his partymate told Montoro himself comes to our head, who said to him: "Go and tell the people who are going around the containers, the people who no longer charge anything, because they have lost the job, they have lost the unemployment, they have lost everything. Well, go – go, go –, huh? Mr. Junqueras. Unfortunately, Mr Junqueras, there are many of these people in the rest of Spain, but there are also many in Catalonia, and you should have been more cautious, you should have been much more prudent. It is curious that there are so many social needs to be covered, in the budget that we are discussing there are no important savings and rationalisation measures for administrations, public enterprises or public bodies; no, there is no such measure. Do you know how many public entities dependent on the Generalitat would be suppressed according to these budgets? One. Yes, yes, they have heard well: one; it must be so that it is not said. Look, the politicians have..., and this is a reflection I want to share with you. Politicians have an obligation to do something that is absolutely in our hands, which is entirely up to us: to make an administration and a public sector more efficient, not by whim, precisely to ensure its quality and continuity. We must work to establish an administration and a public sector that ensures the provision of the best services but at the lowest possible cost. We must eliminate bureaucracy, eliminate administrative duplication. We must therefore make administration more agile and flexible. Only an efficient and muscular public sector will remove the reasons for those who intend to dismantle it, and among those who intend to dismantle what is not Citizens. Politicians have an obligation to carry out a genuine comprehensive audit of the activities of the autonomous administrations, at the economic, organic and functional level, precisely to merge or eliminate inoperative public entities. Why not – why – establish that the management congresses of all public enterprises should be no more than five members? Why not close all those advisory councils and observatories that have not met more than twice a year in the past five years? Is there better evidence that they serve nothing than that? What need do we have for five levels of administration? What need do we have for so many public entities? None. Eliminate................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Members of Parliament, we should get to work, because, if we do, the citizenry will thank us and we will have given an example of doing what is in our hands and it is necessary to do so. On the other hand, we politicians have a responsibility to restore the quality of the Catalan institutions and the action of the Government, which have certainly deteriorated considerably, and this is reflected in the suspension given us in these and other aspects of the European index of social progress. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is an index drawn up by the European Commission, and we are suspended, we are clearly suspended in many respects. But we're not on the right track for that prestige recovery. Let me tell you that in order to regain the prestige of institutions and government action, nothing contributes to the vodka to which we are subjected every year to approve the budgets. But let us continue with the analysis of budgets, now from the point of view of the economy and employment. Here, they also suspend, but the government does not talk to us about green shoots; it has gone directly to talk to us about flowering trees. It must be because they bring us the budgets in spring; it must be because of that, because not for another reason. The reality is that they are fragile budgets, but he, the Councillor, has told us about..., and the budgets themselves establish it, they tell us about robust growth – robust –, continuous and robust growth. And nothing further from reality: it is fragile and with mud feet. Look, the macroeconomic improvements, which are observable, and which we recognize, are mainly due to the internal devaluation that we have suffered by adjusting, even in some cases in a painful, very strong and very painful way, in the wages, that we have suffered from Catalans in the form of wages. They are also due to a favourable international situation: we have very low rates of the European Central Bank, the very controlled risk premium, we have seen a depreciation of the euro and particularly low fuel prices. Of course, that has favored a better macroeconomic situation than we had, but not one of these mediates is due to the work or action of the Government of the Generalitat. The Government should not seek to put in place measures that do not correspond to it, and, above all, it should be more cautious, more cautious and more respectful of citizens, and should avoid exaggerating the soundness of the macroeconomic situation, precisely because it does not even reach the citizens who need it most. If in the future they want to make merit, because they make the structural changes that Catalonia needs, and they decrease..., for example, they help to improve the gap that it maintains in employment and productivity issues with the most advanced economies. In order for Catalonia to have robust and sustainable growth we must be able to produce more and more new goods and services with more added value; we must improve the way in which they are produced and distributed; we must introduce changes in the factors involved in production and changes in the organisation and management of companies. None of this – none of this –, no measures related to this, we find in the budgets. Nothing. It tells us that we are in a situation with large exports. It is true – it is true – that we have large exports, but, look, things are not going well, the first warning gives us the fact that GDP is going to grow in 2006 less than in 2005. It's already a first warning sign. And the second, Mr. Counsellor, will come from the hands of the descent—unloved by me, but I probably already foretell it—of the exports themselves. Exports that allow us, it is true, to have balanced the balance of payments quite well, but I must tell you that this balance of payments is balanced, precisely it is balanced, precisely, by the trade relations that we maintain, by the trade exchanges that we maintain with the rest of Spain. Not so much for exports properly to other countries as – let's call them this – exports to the rest of Spain. Well, then... It has, therefore, Catalonia in front of it a margin of improvement, but that depends on improving human capital and institutional quality. And both – both – also resuspended according to the European Social Progress Index. After hearing the Vice-President and Counsellor of Economics, you surely think that these budgets are strongly committed to improving human capital, the quality of institutions, supporting industry, entrepreneurs and providing credit to self-employed people and SMEs. Well, if you've read them thoroughly, you know that's not true, and if I'm not going to tell you. Let me tell you that these budgets go in the opposite direction to some extent, and I will give you several examples. Support to industry is reduced by 4_million, 11_percent less. Support for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship development declines 9_million – 9,200,000 –, a 19.51_per_cent. The appropriations for economic promotion and SMEs represent a decrease of 102_million, 19.74_percent. And that, I hope not, contradicts the idyllic image you have given of the Catalan Institute of Finance as a bank for the promotion of the economy and SMEs. In short. The Citizens' Group has tabled an amendment to the whole...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.5.0	Mr. Spiny, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.6.0	Allow me to conclude, Madam President. I conclude: the Citizens' Group has tabled an amendment to the whole, firstly, because we do not share the political project of breaking up and separating the rest of Spain in which they rest; secondly, it is not the budgets that Catalonia and Catalans need to promote equal opportunities, combat poverty and inequalities and have an economic and employment growth that favors the prosperity and well-being of Catalans. And I finish, ladies and gentlemen, I end with a wish: how much we want and hope in Citizens that the Catalan Government will devote itself to governing, to managing, to managing in Catalonia all the tools and competences it has thanks to self-government. He does not know how much we want the Government of the Generalitat to forget and let go of the continuous spectacle and the continuous gesticulation that they offer, lately, along with their companions and travel allies. A journey, Mr Lluís Llach, which does not take Ithaca, is a journey that does not take us anywhere. Thank you, thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.7.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. According to the totality presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To defend her, has the word the lady Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.8.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President, Councillors, Councillors. So, well, today the Government of the Generality, through its vice president, has presented us with the proposal of assumptions for 2016. And the truth is that, frankly, and after the announcement he made yesterday night the CUP – his negative, therefore, to these assumptions–, it is strange to analyze some assumptions that will not be, some assumptions that we could say "nothing," right? But we also have to say that in this Parliament there are so many times that until there is a vote we are careful. For the time being, at eleven o'clock today, you don't seem to approve of them. The truth is that we were somewhat surprised by the Vice President's intervention, which he ignored, he quite ignored that. He's focused a lot on the presupposition, and it seems to us, so, that's exactly what this element is, so, it's probably the most important thing that we can say today. In any case, Mr. Junqueras, your responsibility is to present assumptions today, and your irresponsibility is to present them without guarantee of approval. To us, this seems to be a very important irresponsibility, and therefore, as we do not share these assumptions, we do not share their country model, nor the present or the one they want to set up in a future, so we keep the goal to the totality and we want to explain it. It is our responsibility and therefore this is our intervention. Look, we'll tell you the day they presented the assumptions to Parliament that these assumptions were continuous. They're some assumptions that you've continued to present to us and approved the government but with Councilman Mas-Colell. They maintain an ideological model of the same, conservative, of the Drets, both for what it does to fiscal policy, very little courage with the rics, both for what it does, therefore, to the insufficient resources in social policies, and, obviously, with a clear lack of leadership for what it does, therefore, at the impulse of economic activity. They're resigned assumptions, we also said, very little ambitious, despite their full route, so they're not ambitious or so alone with this. This is probably ours, so it's good enough, but it's not even ours. And they're disobedient. They're disobedient to Parliament. Probably some would be happier if they were disobedient to the Constitutional Court or to the State, but not really, what they are disobedient to the Parliament. And we have seen how you, in these assumptions that also present us, therefore, disobey some motions, some approved points, such as the closure of the lines of P3, which here is approved that you are not a tanker and you have closed; or that we would incorporate resources, for example, for the schools of Bressol, and not incorporate them into this assumption. We still have a zero-euro game, the same game that was eliminated by Councillor Mas-Colell and President Mas. Therefore, continuous, resigned, disobedient assumptions, but for us the hardest is that they are irresponsible assumptions. Irresponsible, Mr Junqueras, because you bring here assumptions that you do not know if you will approve. At the moment it seems we won't approve of them. You bring here some assumptions without knowing if you will have the clear recovery of your partner, in this case the CUP. Looks like he won't have it for now. But it's that you introduced them..., and that's what they told you from yesterday night, that you presented assumptions that you didn't have to guarantee their support. He didn't work them hard enough. Probably what I should have done was not to introduce them, if I had not guaranteed their support, because today we are living, so, a certain theater that really does a lot of harm not only to its government, but also to Catalonia. And you, in addition, have some assumptions that, beyond having the support of the CUP..., you have not generated a bridge with any other parliamentary groups either. Look, I can't talk about the rest, but he didn't call us, he didn't sit down with us, he didn't try to keep a window to try, so he agreed on some assumptions. I, miri, Constellera Munté..., was listening to her this morning to a very insistent question from the journalist, from Pepa Bueno, who would give her if beyond the CUP they thought to listen to other groups, and she insisted that today they would listen to the arguments of the CUP. I hope they're also listening to us, to know who our arguments are, because, obviously, there are other groups here, in the chamber, despite not knowing. The vice president has already said: "Those who do not share the full route, we do not expect them. So, enchanted, we are here, with our obligation to explain why we present a statement to the totality. In any case, it seems irresponsible to us that without having guaranteed the approval of certain assumptions, the gathering of his partner, you bring them here today. And I'm also surprised that some are surprised that the CUP doesn't support these assumptions, because, listen, since the start of the legislature, we've had some, some votes lost to the government, some votes lost to Junts for the Yes. The CUP in many cases has not supported them and lost the vote, and I will give some examples: the elimination of the P3 lines, which it had previously done; ensuring urgent health transport because it is not used for transfers of private mutuals or private health centres; reducing the Government's high trust rates, or revising the criteria for awarding grants to communication media. These four points, for example, you lost them because the UPC voted with opposition. That's to say, it's not the first time either, this one, I'm sure, that we'll find ourselves where the CUP, so don't give them back up. It is already, therefore, certainly a normalized element in this Parliament. It is clear, therefore, that you, together for the Yes and the CUP, do not share a political project, it seems to me that this is quite obvious. But what we weren't so clear about, and I think that in this scenario that's been going on these days, it's pretty obvious that they don't share political strategy either. Miri, the CUP has asked them to remove Montoro with the deficit, not to supplement the Law of Presuppositional Enabling, to incorporate in the presumption those taxes cancelled or suspected by the Constitutional Court, and the vice president has said – and to us it seems good – that this will not do, that they will be and that these are, he says – repeatedly said – strict and serious assumptions, and therefore will not incorporate what the CUP says. And we, therefore, of course, find it difficult to marry this. Probably, this is one of the reasons for which the CUP, so, today, probably, you confirm this announcement denied these Junts for the Yes assumptions, these government assumptions. Therefore, they do not share a political strategy either. But it's that from Juntes per el Si, between Convergence and Esquerra you don't share the whole political project, and we've also seen it in the picabarals that we've had before the premise, before presenting it, for example with the IRPF's debate, in which some group, then, would want to push the taxes to which they most have and some other government group, so it wouldn't want that, would it? But, in addition, we have also seen it in some votes in this Parliament, we have seen votes in which Together for the Yes has broken down. And here they also show you their difference in political project. For example, they voted different from the repeal of labour reform, or the elimination of the concert to sex-secretive schools, or, as I said, in the IRPF debate that you have made outside the parliamentary chamber. Therefore, it seems that, ultimately, the difficulties are not only with the CUP, but also with the difficulties in their own homes. So, of course, it's hard, I mean, these assumptions can see the light, because the situation is a little complex. The truth is that, before this situation of continuous uncertainty in which he saw this country, pending territorial assemblies, pressing wheels and talking to three, it is inevitable for me to remember how some accused Dragon Khan's tripartite. After that, I would like to say that we can all put a name in the current situation, but there..., my God, how much it has been and how much it has been, that tripartite and that situation that many called "Dragon Khan". [[Some applause.]] Finally, in order to finish this first introductory part, I would like to repeat his irresponsibility to bring here some assumptions that he will not be able to approve with his partner, nor with anyone else because he did not raise the phone to have an open dialogue with other parliamentary groups, with our certainty that he did not. And then you see my question, Mr. Junqueras, which is: Are you sure you want to approve these assumptions? Are you sure you have that interest? Because it seemed obvious that the CUP could say no, they see a little, so, their trajectory, right? And, as the Member who preceded me said, his consistency. I do not know if it is that you have already started the campaign for June 26th or for the own Catalan elections, which seems to be very soon; but I think we should be a little more serious among all of us and think that the assumptions, the Law of Presumptions, are the most important law that a Parliament approves and it is the law that should give answers to so many needs and longings that this country has, that are not only nationals. Start the second part of my intervention. Why are they supposed to be? What are some assumptions to answer to? Listen, we think they have to respond, basically, to two aspects: one, the most social, right? That is to say, they should respond to clear problems that the country has: inequality, attitude, social cohesion, loss of social cohesion, a certain loss of quality of public services... It has also been discussed before, in the previous intervention, about the reform of the Administration, which should also help to improve this; but it is certain that with the detail it is difficult for it to marry quality with less pressure; but, in any case, what it is that this assumption gives a response to these social needs, to these social elements that, for us, and not for us alone, is difficult to marry quality with less pressure; but, in any case, it is necessary that this assumption should be given in response to these social needs, to these social elements that, for us, and not for us alone, but also for many entities, therefore, require a quick and urgent response from the Government. But, in addition, we believe that these assumptions should also be responsive to a new impetus to economic activity. I mean, there should be proactive policies for what it does to economic recovery, and we honestly don't see it. Then I'll come in, I'll talk about it, and I'll put some detail down. In any case, we should respond to this and it's true that we also find ourselves in a presuppositional framework that makes things difficult, we don't want to run away from studying, we know that it's not easy – and I see now the secretary of economics, here, listening to us, and I understand that his difficulties must have been met, and many, to make this assumption. But we think it's possible to make another assumption too. It's true that GDP is growing, and that's good news because, among other things, we could have more revenue for the increase, so tax collection, but that's probably the only good news we have for what it does to the budget market, because the deficit target is very tight, a 0.7, the air says a 1, but a 0.7 is very tight. You know, Mr. Junqueras, because we have said here, more than once, that we are at your side and we are also at the side of Councillor Mas-Colell to gather him in the negotiation of a more flexible deficit target, more suited to reality, because, obviously, therefore, the State here, therefore, ends up taking a better for what he does, therefore, to his fiscal effort, and therefore, here, will have us. But I also have to say that the year 2015, the deficit target was 0.7 and we ended up doing it 2.7. I mean, there was a very important deviation. We are talking about a lot of millions of euros. And that, therefore, probably also has to do with a bad management and be a little strict with the assumptions. Let's remember that in 2015, we already denounced it, it was 2,300_million euros that had to come from a negotiation with the State that was not done, that money did not arrive and that, therefore, caused the deficit to increase. The debt continues to grow at a rate of one-hundred per cent, that is to say, of course, this, in the end, is a last that has our presupposition, and, therefore, this is an important element. Our debt qualification is worse every day– and now a few days ago, so Moody's already decreed it as a piece of shit–, and the weather, though it improves, very little, remains very important: 470,000 people at the time. And, more than that, the jobs they think they are, precarious. Today, at the expense, therefore, of the news of the breach of the agreement of the CUP, there was an article in La Vanguardia that talked about the drama of the youth attura. And you say: "Of course, it's that we don't approve of assumptions or not being aware of the situation in which we are in the door that we can't solve problems like this, as hard as youth, right? For example. Okay. Vice-President Junqueras told us, with this presuppositional mark, that they had laid down or that they presented us with the most social assumptions of history. We can't share this sentence, basically, because you're the only one who contradicted it; 2014 said the same thing, it said that 2014 was also the most social of history. I don't know if it's that every year you want to make history, but the case is that every year we're saying the same thing. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, every two years must be the most social of history. What's going on is that like the hemerotheque, the data and the assumptions are published, so one is going to see 2010 and you see as the sum of the social parties in the year 2010, the last tripartite government that the Republican Left was part of, so, add, these parties, 19,050_million euros. Today, in the presupposition of 2016, add 16,423. That's a few million less, 2,627 million euros less. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, with many more social needs today than in 2010. Listen, the numbers aren't arbitrary, the numbers are objective. We stay and stay, that's what everybody can do. 2010 was higher. But, listen, it's not the PSC, which was part of this tripartite, that, surprisingly for us, the CUP made a press wheel in which it said that "a lot of people would be surprised if they said that they would like the social expenditure of 2016 to be the same as that of the tripartite. So, you don't say the PSC anymore, you say the CUP, which seems to you to have more legitimacy. Therefore, we do not share this assertion that they are the most social of history, and I will now enter into some details. Some examples: Program of care for people with disabilities, they dedicate you less money in 2016 than in 2015. A little? Yeah, well, let's move from $5 million to $4.4 million. But, listen to me, this isn't the most social thing in history. The minimum income: the government has committed 'to put in 70_million euros for the guaranteed minimum income and you have not put in 23,5; more than they are disobedient to what even you promise, it turns out they have put in less than the country needs. One thing..., we could say to her "fun not to say anything else, because it's dramatic: you say that 1,147 residential places are increasing, but these are only 140 for large people, which is where there really is the important need of this country. That is to say, of 1,147 there are 140 for the great people. But do they know what the need for residence places is for the great people in Catalonia? It's 17,567 and you're increasing it to 140. These are the dice, they're not makeup, huh? - These are the dice. Listen to me, there's a three-year midfielder waiting to go to a public residence. Private is another thing, but not everyone has money to pay private, counselor, and so you do that. And this, therefore, leaves the phrase "the most social of history" very far behind. Equally, this issue, which is a subject that we are very concerned about and that we have done a lot of work..., man, you dedicate to it, maybe the amount is ridiculous, but 100,000_euros less than the year 2015, in policies of equality, just when we have to develop a law of equality, which we approved in this Parliament a few months ago. Well, then, I don't know... the most social of history? He spends in salvation. I'm now in the position of Counsellor Comín. 2010, per capita expenditure on health: 2010, 1,297; 2015, 1.120; 2016, 1.153. It's true, we've increased €33 per capita the expenditure on health, but that's not the most social of the story because 2010 was much higher. Therefore, we also follow strict when we make statements so as not to confuse, say, the staff. Listen, they were also talking about active employment policies; that is to say, active employment parties are increasing because they are increasing the resources of the State, but there is an incredible lack of ambition in the generality's bid for active employment policies, when really the effort that would have to be made is very great, as it did with a very – much – youthful trek – so to speak, but mostly with a dramatic situation for a lot of people who already carry more than two years in a trek. And while, therefore, we are surprised that you are returning the staff of the SOC; but, in change, you are increasing the departure of external services to companies that need to develop Tasks of the Occupational Service of Catalonia. And the truth is, I'd like to ask the Republican Left Members directly, because, of course, this is the model that you defend, privatizing the Occupational Service of Catalonia? When it seems to us that one of the lines that they have always defended here..., I remember, therefore, the deputy Amoros speaking on this subject..., when what should be done is to strengthen the public service to give, therefore, attention to so many people who are going through it badly and who, moreover, are doing under a public and not private prism, in which we only serve those that we can really place. No, here what should be reinforced is precisely the public service, which is not what it is. I have said this before, but I repeat: zero euros for schools in Bressol. The part that surrounds you the Generalitat continues to zero, Mr Junqueras. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, you say no to me, but that's it. And that there is a compromise voted in this Parliament about this. Therefore, we do not see by place, therefore, this more social assumption, these social policies that you say arise reinforced in this assumption. And, well, if we're talking economic recovery, then, still less. To us, it seems to us that there is no plan to mark a clear leadership of the Administration for which it does, therefore, to economic policy. In industrial policy, you are reducing the contribution of 36 million, which was little in 2015, by 34; and, moreover, in this Parliament you too have lost, but it was approved, a point in which "a presuppositionary game would be incorporated to develop the national plan for industry, which must be completed. Neither have we seen it, this game, and this is something that has been approved here, despite the fact that you lost it – here the CUP also voted against it. In research, development and innovation policies, they increase briefly..., well, briefly, very subtly the game, it is true, increases a little; but, of course, we are very far from what they dedicated in 2010. And I, here, is that I have to stop, and we have to stop, to tell you what model, you, economics fly through the country; a low cost model? A model in which we only compete for pay cuts? A neo-liberal economic model? Who's this model? Because, listen to me, I understand, labor reform has approved Convergence, which is one of Junt's members for Yes, but the truth is that we are very concerned about this. If we don't make a clear bet for innovation, for knowledge, for how we sleep the university to the world of business, the university..., the university knowledge to transfer it... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr Junqueras, there are no clear bets, no; there are – there are – very subtle increases in these parties. And that, for us, is not a model change, it is not a clear model change leadership. And if we talk about energy, I don't even explain it anymore, because the parties relating to the Catalan Institute of Lower Energy, have been reduced for some years now. We don't see any new, bold energy policy, where we could feel like we're going to be, like we've been in a lot of other camps. We are going to the trailer of the State, which is precisely not a model or an example of a new energy policy. And you could say the same at the mid-environmental level, where in the last five years there has been a 60_per_cent breakdown of the premise; or in agriculture, which we also carry from 2010 to the 26_per_cent breakdowns incorporated. So, of course, we often listen to this government that makes appearances, that the counselors appear to say the import of the food sector or the import of environmental and energy policies, but then, when it really comes to demonstrating where its priorities are, we don't see black on white in the assumptions. And now, lastly, to close the expense side: reversal. You have reduced the reversal in Catalonia by 30_per_cent. It's been a few years since this thing went down, but this one's lower than it was in 2015. Nor do we see any significant reversal, no reversal that sets the conditions for a different economic development model, with an added value. We don't see that either. There are a few pieces: the C-17, the C-58, which we do not know if in the end they will solve the problems of mobility that they entail; but, in any case, no brave project and country ambitions for which it does the inversion. Therefore, Mr. Junqueras, it seems to us a little honest to make this statement about the most social assumptions of history; they have not gone too far into the economic sphere, because, obviously, therefore, the assumption is so weak, therefore, that I understand that you do not devote much time to it. But, I repeat, we're not the only ones who say that, are we? The CUP said yesterday, in its press wheel, that there were assumptions that they would not even reverse the details... and, more importantly, that they would maintain the "austericide"; therefore, it seems to me that this we have seen all the less of you, Mr Junqueras. I understand you have to explain another film, but in the end the numbers are the ones that are and give place to little arbitrariness. But to end this expense, I would like to say one thing: you insist that we have 1,100_million euros more to spend; that, of these, 850 or 870 are for social expense..., but we, when we put ourselves to analyze the assumption, that of 2015, the initial, is true, in relation to the initial there are 1,100_million euros more, but when we analyze the liquidation of 2015, it is to say, that the Generalitat of Catalonia actually spent in 2015, here is where we bring our surprise. Because you, the year 2015, spent more than 2,000 million euros more than you planted for this year. In other words, the figures set the following: initial assumption of 2015, 32,000_millions; presuppost executed, settled, 35,000; presuppost proposal for 2016, 33,000. Therefore, what we ask you, Mr Junqueras, is not this 870_million euros to which you dedicate and as you have sought them, but from which you have detailed these 2,000_million euros, because, if you close the 2015 premise with 2,000_million euros more than you proposed to us in 2016, it is that you have detailed 2,000_million euros, and we would appreciate it if you could answer us here: where is the retail. Because you want to spend 2016 less than you spent 2015. [[Some applause.]] And that's an extreme objective of the documents that stick to your web. Where did we go from, Mr. Junqueras? It's a lot of money, isn't it? To analyze their data, because, of course, it's not easy, I'm telling you. But I'll give them one: to memorise you about where to retail or where to retail in relation to 2015. Miri: pharmaceutical expense, Mr Comín. Any 2015: €1,367_million has been spent on pharmaceutical expenditure–1,367. Do you know how much they put in the 2016 pharmaceutical expense game? So, miri, 988 million euros. That is to say – that is to say – 379 million euros less. And our question is – and our question is –: how it's retailing, explain what it'll do. Aren't we going to pay all the pharmaceuticals? Are we going to make it worse? – Are we going to make it more difficult? That's what we'd like to know. [[Funnel veils]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.9.0	Mr. Comin, Mr. Comin...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.10.0	... because 2015 has made a 2,7_per_cent deficit, which is about 5,000_million euros more, there's a major part of it and a part of less tickets that he got – we've already told you – but we'd like to know what's going to happen in this 2016. Is it that you already, somehow, recognize that you're going to make it more difficult, despite the fact that you said you wanted strict assumptions? Or is it that, simply, you won't pay the entire pharmaceutical cost? And so, it's telling and we'd love it if you'd recognize it. We just want you to be honest with us, or honestly with yourself, and tell us exactly that. And for what he does at the ticket office, then, I'd like to tell him a couple of things. The first is that we have to congratulate him, because it is true that there are no fictitious entries in this premise, and in the previous assumptions there were none, and that is why the deficit was greatly increased. Therefore, in this sense, congratulate them. Also congratulate them because part of these entries come and are guaranteed because there has been a dialog, a negotiation and a pact with the State, a pact with Mr Montoro. And we, of that, congratulate ourselves because it is what you should surely have on behalf of any government; it is not that I like to agree with Mr. Montoro, it is that you are an institution and you must defend the interests of Catalans, and if that means making sure that Mr. Montoro's dispatches ask what is just for Catalonia – I would just miss it! – so, ho has to do it. And listen to me, laugh, Mr. Junqueras, but it's been a few years since that happened, huh? It's been a few years since this happened, when the President of the Generalitat, or the Councilor of Economy, was not going to ask what was right for Catalans and what Catalans had to do. Therefore, listen to me, we must congratulate him: you have done so. All right. You, this time, surely in a year of breakup, in a year of disconnection, the year, therefore, that it was necessary to lay the foundations for independence connected with Montoro, right? He's been closer to Montoro. We congratulate each other because this is good for Catalans. I also told you in 2014 that you were the last autonomic assumptions. Well, it's been three years since he said it, huh? – 2014, 2015 and, if these approve, 2016, eh? "That is to say, the last autonomous assumptions; so, well, we already carry three of them. In any case, about the tickets: autonomic financing system, which you have talked about, exhausted, insufficient, with this also knows that we are on its side, we probably do not share the full route, because your wish would be to break and we would certainly want a new agreement, federal, on finance, but in any case, tell it that, if there is no new one, because also the former Government, to which you gave support, did not pretend to speak. And I remember, in 2012, Mr. Mas before seeing Mr. Rajoy said "tax pact yes, tax pact no; Mr. Rajoy told him that they never talked about it again. It's to say that it's true that Mr. Rajoy, so, he didn't come back for it, but neither did we. And the obligation of a government is to make sure that you try to dialogue for the sake of its citizens, and we believe that, this, you have not done. Tax policy: they have not been strong with the richest, they are not asking for an effort from those who have the most, no change in the inheritance tax, in the donation tax, and this surprise us very much because Esquerra Republicana, when she was sore from the government but was not in the government, said that she had obtained a small reform in the inheritance tax because, therefore, she could no more. Home, now would be the time to prove that you are a left-handed party and that you do want to exert more effort on the city than you have, and we haven't seen it. We have not seen fiscal policy, therefore, this margin that we believe we do have in some taxes that we manage. And neither, for example, have we seen an analysis of the tax benefits that have led us to eliminate those that have come back. It is true that it is 10,000_million euros, the sum of the tax benefits, of which we have competitions are a thousand and a thousand, but, listen, here we might be able to analyze something. In fact, another vote you lost is this. The CUP voted with opposition and won, in this Parliament, that the government would analyse the tax benefits, which would depend on the Generality, and eliminate the regressions; neither did we. We have not completed this point which marked, therefore, the Parliament. And we can continue with tax fraud, or with the labor fraud, which we do not see here, therefore, a very clear bet. Therefore, Mr Junqueras, in the area of the tickets: very few brave, very few ambitious, do not plant face to face the richest, the most they have, and we continue to demand efforts – as always – at middle classes and workers. We keep the emena to the totality because it cannot be in any other way; you present assumptions – you say – you continue, resigned, disobedient with this Parliament; they are not the most social of history and it seems to me that we have argued it quite well, they do not plant back from the future to boost the economy, they mark a full road that we do not share; it seems that no one shares it, because no one will vote for them, these assumptions, therefore, you should make some reflection on respect and therefore our emena to the totality is maintained. Now, we'd ask you to do some thinking. We have already told you on 27 September, that they may have read poorly the result, there is no clear majority in Parliament who gave the government away, we have seen it in small votes, but we are seeing it today with the most important law approved by this Parliament. Look, the reality is very rough and it seems to me that... it's not that we rejoice over what's going on, despite what some opinionators say, now we're not happy about what's going on today, but the reality is very rough and in the end we'll give the reason to some that we said they weren't reading well the result on September 27th. So think about it. And let's not give it to ourselves: in an article, Miquel Roca gave it a few days ago too, or so you would have to reflect on her full route, on her travel companions and where they wanted to go. Maybe the speed is different, and this can go a long way in the country. I finish, President, with one sentence: you present assumptions that do not pose a leadership to the country, that do not push economic fabric, that do not stimulate us sectors, with a clear social insufficiency; autonomous assumptions of a councillor who said two years ago that would not make or approve autonomous assumptions; assumptions of tips, of the past, of the moon, very long before the disconnection of Spain, but also, unfortunately, very long after the disconnection of Catalans and Catalans who are still patenting and patenting a lot. Mr. Junqueras, don't take responsibility for who doesn't have it, ask yourself, that you are responsible for bringing some assumptions here today and, above all, for approving them and being able to put them on the march. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.11.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The third issue concerns totality, presented by the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. To defend her, Mr. Joan Coscubiela has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.12.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice President, I want to begin our intervention by recognizing that making assumptions in these circumstances is not an easy task. Above all, it is not, much less, if they want to present some continuous assumptions with the policies, framed within a full route supposedly disruptive. Recognise me, on the other hand, that the management that you and Mr Puigdemont have made – of these assumptions has been of great political fear. To present oneself to Parliament without having guaranteed the necessary votes for its approval, with notable differences within the Government on a key issue in budgetary policy, such as fiscal policy; to refuse to talk repeatedly with the groups we have offered to them, various times, to talk about the assumptions and, above all, to do so in the centre of an electoral debate, towards an electoral debate, an electoral process, has been of total and absolute political fear. Can you explain to us, Mr. Vice President, who are the reasons that led you to systematically reject the plans that we have made from Catalonia? Why didn't he want to talk to us, despite the offers we made him? Why did you deal with our proposal with paternalism, when not with certain degrees of political pre-potency? If I can find it, now I can find it, but as you say, "What you end up paying for is the citizens, and we must try to avoid it. You present us with absolutely continuous assumptions. Of all the ways, it is coherent – it is coherent – with what they come up with every day, consistent with the continuity of holding concerts with the elites that secrete by sex; coherent with the veto to process, to discuss the popular legislative initiative of education; coherent with the continuity of not burying the Barcelona World project and keeping it artificially; coherent with not reversing the policies of privatization of basic services, and I do not say anything, for example, about Aigues Ter Llobregat. In short, it has not surprised us that you have presented some continuistic assumptions, what has surprised us is that you think that it can happen, you and your government, all the legislature deceiving everyone, saying one thing and doing the counter, adopting resolutions and then doing exactly the opposite. It seems that no, this ambivalence, this double language is ending it. Even for a political artist – and I say this with the noblest sense of the word – of pretending, for someone who has been able to present himself throughout the entire previous legislature as the head of the opposition while it was the first support of the government But, even for you, the leader of political pretending, that is the mass. Because, the truth is, he's re-honored simultaneously and subtly to Mr. Montoro and the troika's presuppositional stabilization policies at the same time that he promises his partners disobedience, insubmissiveness and disconnection, even for you, that's too much. We told you the first time we discussed this with you, and you with this smile that you use when you don't want to get into things, so you didn't. So, well, that's it. This unfolding of personality in political terms has been too much, even for you. And as much as they're trying to get pilots out of here, what's happening today is that the government's full route – it's fixed, "the government, I'm limited here," that full route is making water on all sides. It is not anything that a government of an exceptional legislature will not be able to approve either the first assumptions – as it seems – when not even five months of its constitution have passed. God, there's no such thing as this legislature. What happens is that I don't know if you were thinking about this kind of exception. You can continue to see that nothing happens in political terms, but the truth is that what happened today, what can happen today, is very big and meaningful. I've made another recognizance: it's true that these assumptions are less unreal and less fictitious than the ones of 2015 – it didn't cost very much, honestly – but they still feel tricked, and some of the traps have already been unmasked. Trampious in numbers and in his political presentation. And for what it was, you, when you felt upset – the government – did not come up with anything other than coming out in the political defense of your assumptions using lies and trying to emotionally intimidate the citizens and the groups that have submitted papers to you to the totality, making them responsible for their political fear presenting in these conditions these assumptions. Traps, threats, lies to try to cover up his recklessness would fear to show up today like this. Actually, it's how they are, they've presented themselves as the naked king. In fact, it's like this government, it's not completely related to the full path it says it's applying. I recognize that the difficulty of these assumptions has much to do with the economic situation that we have experienced, with the depth of the social details of the girls in recent years – that something you will have contributed to it, supporting the previous government – and with the poor and unjust financing conditions that Catalonia suffers. But don't just..., let me remind you of some of the important responsibilities of your government: on the one hand, the refusal to face the reform of some taxes on which Catalonia has skills that no one is discussing and that could allow us to significantly increase social policies. In the words of Mr Puigdemont, "the Catalans already pay a lot, so in general – the only society that does not have social classes. And it turns out that today we find a Fedea report, that it's not exactly a think tank center of bolxevics, that tells us that Spain and also Catalonia 20_percent of the population with fewer tickets supports the same real fiscal pressure as the 20_percent percentage of Spaniards – of Catalans, too – with more tickets. Do you not agree that you, with this approach, are not defending Catalonia, but are defending the interests of only economic elites who have been feeding them for a long time? This is the problem; the problem is that you have a responsibility not to want to improve the Generality's entries, as you also have a responsibility in the disciplined acceptance of the presuppositional goals and the subtension of the public deficit. You honestly... it's that, of course, it can't be, you can't go on with this double language, this double morality. Fixed yours that they carry throughout the legislature: rupturistic statements while fans of continuous politics; resolutions of disobedience while practicing policies of submissiveness. Someday I'd have to jump in the air. And today is the beginning of this explosion, not interested, but in any case, which you have provoked. These presuppositions are neither disruptive nor the most social of history; they are continuous-minded for where they are aimed, for any space. They are disciplined assumptions with austerity theology, disciplined with European, Spanish and Catalan stability law, and at the same time – as has been said – very disobedient with Parliament, very disobedient, because much of the resolutions approved for this Parliament do not fit in its numbers. With the statements, yes. But the words take away the wind, and in the presuppositional matter what counts are the numbers, and not the presuppositions only the executed, which in this you are also artists. Miri, Mr. Junqueras, you haven't signed up. I don't know who wrote him the ideological part of these assumptions, but he's got to pay homage, because they're so disciplined with the logic of presuppositional stability that he uses the troika that they even use their own language. At the social expense details on this assumption you call it fiscal consolidation. Home, at least you could have hidden a little in time to assume the ideology of the people who brought us to this drama. Presenting these assumptions to us as the most social of history is insulting citizenship, and you know it. Actually, isn't it red when you say these things, Mr. Vice President? Because you know that the social expenditure of 2016–calculated– is very low – very low –, a 13,5_per_cent less than that of 2010, whether it is calculated in terms of initial assumptions as if it is calculated in terms of the budgetary execution of 2010. But it is more, that the social expenditure of these assumptions in terms of per capita, per capita, is 2,329 euros. Do you know what level this is? It is the level of per capita social expenditure in 2004 in nominal terms. After that, can you say that these are the most social assumptions of history when they face a situation of profound increase in inequality and poverty? Look, we're aware – and we've said it, and we've said it many times and you didn't want to listen to us – about the difficulty of addressing this situation. This is not easy, to square these assumptions, it is not easy people, and there are clear responsibilities outside the Catalan Government, there are clear responsibilities in the policies of the Spanish Government, there are clear responsibilities in European policies. Certainly, you can... you, personally, and the party, can say that with this you have nothing to see, but, of course, you are the vice president of a government that voted them all, and enthusiastically, huh? The hemerotec has your predecessor, Mr. Mas, enthusiastically embracing the rigorous austerity policies of the troika. You cannot complain to Catalonia about the consequences of which you vote for Spain and Europe. But the question, the question I ask you, and I ask you, Vice President, and I ask your President, is why do you continue to refuse to increase the tax resources that the Generality has to offer? Why do they not accept our proposals to improve the IRPF's Catalan tram, to address the issue of inheritance and donation tax, to address the issue of heritage? Why don't they address concrete measures because these 2,000_million euros that Councillor Comín and Councillor Bassa have acknowledged is paying at these times the national health system and that they should go to the expense of the private mutuals..., doesn't appear at all in the premise? Why are you refusing to address this issue? Clearly, they refuse to address it, and then their secretary of economy comes out and says: "If the CUP gives in, we are willing to address the issue of inheritance and donation tax. Punyetes, you've been hopping a mike before. They voted against us, together with the PP, to admit it. They won't even accept the discussion of all this. That's the background problem. You have a policy... - I already told you, huh? Forgive me, 'but be so clear'; you have made the statements, but politics has made it Catalonia's Democratic Convergence. And so are they. The usual policies bring the usual results. From another perspective, for these assumptions, you can do all the marketing operations you want, even media poisoning, brutal pressure, pressure everyone, but you have to have a lot of self-deception skills to believe that these are the assumptions that lead us to disconnect, a lot of self-deception skills. The citizenry is no longer willing to do so much. So far, this strategy has worked, but it's not, it's been blown up. From the first word of the preamble to the last xifra of the assumptions, these have a logic of total autonomy. And you can say, "We can't do anything else. So, say it, but don't say one thing and exactly the counter, because, in the end, this unfolding of political personality is what's jumping through the air. They are continuous assumptions, without rupture, without inflexion, or just without discontinuity; they are continuism, even though you know it. From this point of view, this political bipolarity has only one explanation: the Catalan Government has thought that the whole legislature could be thrown away by the demand of two gentlemen; I correct that: a lord and a lady, by the economic demand of Mr Montoro and by the political demand of the CUP. And, of course, that doesn't hold up. It's just... it's just that everyone, anyone who's minimally sensible knows that this can stand in a short, two-day, two-week, two-month relationship, but not a whole legislature. And you continue to insist on this strategy. You could have appeared in this Parliament saying, "Look, these are the only possible assumptions, they cannot be in any other way. Which, in fact, is a little something he came to say today. He could have explained to us that when a government has a public debt of EUR 74,000 million, all in all, of which 40,000 are with the Spanish State, it can't do many vices. He could have told us that, perfectly. In fact, that's what they told the commission of the debt; with the little blowjob it's what they came to tell us, in the commission of the debt, to all groups. And, of course, some would have criticized him for that explanation, and others would have applauded his realism. But, of course, you have decided to continue with this political situation in which your government is set up and you claim that all Catalan policy is set up. He chose to present himself with disciplined assumptions with the policies of "austericides of the troika and try to present them in the framework of a political strategy of disobedience, insubmission and disconnection. In short, you see us dry water. And, I don't know, maybe there's some physicist who's telling me that this is possible, and possibly yes, I'm from letters, but actually, in political terms, this is absolutely impossible. And every time they have it harder; to say one thing and do exactly the counter. Carry, you, Together for the Yes, voting and approving week after week all kinds of motions and resolutions, committing to all kinds of disobedience and disconnection, which after incomplete; carry eight_months adopting things and doing exactly the counters. It may be very, very capable of self-deception to believe that this debate could bring out a few assumptions, no longer discouraging, but discontinuous with the retail policies of these years, which are ambitious social policy. And a lot less... you have to have a lot of self-deception to think that from these assumptions and from this debate they can come out some numbers, some presuppositional accounts that lie on the front of the disconnection. The Government... – and this is the hardest, and I think that you have not measured it well, and possibly we are here, in this situation, among other things – the Government has wanted to save its political fear by placing many lies in the public debate and by placing intimidation, threats and intimidation, in an emotional way, to which we defend them to the totality, and especially to some parliamentary group. And no, it didn't work. And it didn't work because the truth is another. And you know that you are addressing this statement that if you have assumed the situation will be radically different that if there are no, you are addressing it from a double lie. First, Mr. Junqueras, you know that tickets will be the same as presuppositions or not, huh? , from that perspective. And you know that the expenses that have not been incurred will no longer be done. When these assumptions come, in the best of cases, they have passed seven_months, they will remain five_months before. At least you don't continue with the presuppositional traps your predecessors have made. You know perfectly well – you know perfectly well – that the problems of the feeding alleys that have not been donated, the lines of P3 that have been closed, the emergency centers of primary care that have been left unserved for twenty-four hours, the thousands of concerted places of assisted residences that are closed while the waiting lists do not stop growing, this does not solve with their assumptions; it does not have it in global terms, although you have done us today with a hint of small things that do not solve the problem pointing us - as a great merit. You know you could have done things another way, different. Catalunya Yes, it's Pot, of course I want some assumptions, but not these. And you cannot subdue us, with a contract of adherence: "Whether you sign this or there is nothing else, and, more importantly, we hold you accountable that there are no presuppositions. You didn't want to talk a second. It is that neither here, nor little; nor little have they tried to stop talking about the assumptions. You're much more concerned about protecting a small part of the taxpayers, so you don't want to address the fiscal responsibilities you have, which are yours and nobody else's. Miri, I make a point: if the government, in truth – in truth, in truth – is concerned about the social situation of the people with whom they have stayed, well, we are prepared another time to keep talking. Miri, the first one we have to do: approve once and for all the guaranteed income of citizenship. Where are the resources coming from? We have already told him: from these three reforms we want to plant. Yes, it would be from the 1st generation of 2017, yes, of course; it wouldn't be now, but it would be much more important to resolve these issues not conjuncturally for a few months but strategically. Why? Because all the care policies that are being made are making water, they are pieces, and what we need is a strategy to address the problem of inequality and poverty. And this strategy is said to be guaranteed by citizenship, and you said yes – and especially you for a long time – but it turns out that at the time of truth the warmest, at the water; you were spreading this situation. You've tried another time today to store that what's at stake is not just people's interests – of course it is –; what's at stake here today is the permanence of their government, today is the situation there. For a lot of you to see that this isn't like that. You're a government with a full road that makes all sides of the way. I insist, what makes it the full path of the Government – I do not generalize it –, its, this, ambivalent, of unfolding personality, of saying one thing and doing exactly the counter. This can't stand. And you have to think like the government. These assumptions are not only politically false, they are also economically and socially fictitious. The government has lost sight of what it means to debate assumptions in June of the year in which they are approving. There are set traps that can be done when the assumption is discussed the October of the previous year. There is no liquidation, and therefore one can do things like what the company and friend Alicia Romero just denounced, of course, can do, but at this time, no, because we have the execution of the 2015 liquidation, and we have the state of execution of 2016 until March, and we know that everything you have told us does not hold, that many of your predictions that are making are smoke. For example, in the field of entrances. You put forward a forecast of entries with the tax on assets transfers and documented legal acts of 24,7, an increase, almost nothing. What does the 2016 execution say? Yes, yes; but what does the implementation of the first quarter of 2016 say? They don't even reach the 2015 levels. If we can get you, with the rest that's left of the year, to push to a growth of 24.7? Yeah, yeah, trilling, coming out, so, the numbers, over here, side by side... assumptions do that. And the same goes with the inheritance and donation tax. Miri, I'm telling you, I think you have overvalued the tickets for 430_million euros; I think you have overvalued them, in tickets. I may be wrong, and if that's the way I'll recognize him. But the same thing happens in the matter of expense. The 2016 budget, for example, in sanitation, says you bid 316_million, say you bid, you bid. Yes, yes, but you are oblivious to say that the initial assumption is 8.650, that of 2015, and that we will close the year 2015 with a settled expenditure of 10.250; that is to say, 1,600_millions less. And when they were saying it, I hear a voice here, coming out of the ultra-tomb, saying, "The same one that made the tripartite. Yes, the same one that made the tripartite that collected the Lord Comin. Maybe the window is you. And then, maybe, from this point of view, it's better that I'm not in any government, because then... it's bad luck for us, you know? He's got bad luck with some of us from this point of view. These assumptions continue to punish the gatherings. And you know it, from this point of view. Resources are increased, but they are not enough to recover everything they give to the joints. And the most social of history. Look, the most social thing in history is to make policies of job creation, and I'm sure that's what you and I absolutely agree with. And what do these assumptions say? So, the public investment is falling; it doesn't seem like it's fallen long enough since the year 2010 until now, and it's over your fan this year a 14,4_per_cent. Can anyone imagine how, in the face of public investment, they can reactivate the economy from the responsibility of the public sector? And, in addition, the territorial imbalance of this reversal, and sectoral, is to be made to stand up to. For example, can you explain to us, for example, this obsession with undermining industry, for example in the area of investment? We don't need tourism! But a Catalonia without a strong industry will not be Catalonia, it will be another thing. And you in industry topics re-create the premise in an 11_per_cent; in support programs finance the peppers, the retail another time. They're talking about designing a new sustainable energy model for Catalonia, but then redoubling resources into a 1.2_per_cent. And so on. Words, for one side; numbers, money and fets, for another. But, of course, this scarce investment in favor of industry is also consistent with you, it is consistent with the inhibition of the Catalan government in relation to the processes of disinvestment that are taking place at this time: Valeo, Delphi, Innovit, Covestro, General Electrica ; yesterday the people of General Electrica were saying: "But where is the government? Under whose rock is the government bewitched that it is not able to intervene in a process of deindustrialization of a leading company, which has been pointed, made for the same people? The people, the technicians, the best technicians in this country have built something and you are allowing it now..., because, clearly, how you considered it opportune for companies to unilaterally decide, Mr Puigdemont..., unilaterally decide whether or not to close the facilities, from that labor reform voted for you, to have these consequences. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Not you, your party. Clear, well; clear, if you have nothing to do with Convergence, then I'll get out of here, huh? Okay. And the good news that you give us in terms of employment is the very significant boost, indeed, with regard to resources in terms of employment promotion. If you were to be told that this is not a government decision, it is a decision that derives from the Sectoral Employment Conference and from European social foundations, mainly from this point of view. From the point of view of social protection, these assumptions do not serve to address the situation that exists at this time. They haven't... if he's said it before. Listen, depending on you, you've told us before... I don't know how many new places you can create with this differential. Do you know that in the first four pesos of the year the waiting list in dependency has risen to 8,481 people? You know that at these times there are thousands of places available that are not being used, because people do not have money to pay themselves - privately, but it is not up there nor to be able to pay the confiscation system of public prices that you have imposed and do not change with these assumptions? Look, the list of things in antisocial terms of these assumptions is very long. Don't give me time, then, if I call, I'll expand it. For example, can you explain to us why they continue to freeze since 2010 Catalonia's performance indicator? You claim that the Spanish government supports the minimum wage. It's cheese. And in what is its responsibility to keep it frozen – frozen – in €669 since 2010; an indicator that serves to measure access to social benefits and serves to measure the amount of these social benefits. It's also the Spanish State's fault, is it? It's his responsibility. Was it so impossible to address this situation? From this perspective, therefore, I already insist that these assumptions do not hold up at all. Nor in the medium-environmental themes. The assumptions are absolutely continuous in environmental issues. It produces an important fall for the conservation of the natural environment and biodiversity; it produces an important fall for prevention and environmental control in relation to 2010; it does not serve to fulfill the government's commitments to the air quality plan; it improves a small part of the ACA's programme, but, in the context of water policy, you dedicate the half of 2010 to it, and this is absolutely insufficient to address the compliment of the Water Sanitation Plan. Councillor Rull is not here, but obviously this is one of the consequences of not having an environmental department that defends environmental interests before other more aggressive approaches by the government. These are the consequences. From the gender perspective, did you, Mr. Vice President, notice that you haven't told us anything about this? These assumptions imply a significant reduction in the parties of the Català de la Dona Institute. These assumptions do not address the issue of genere rape. Here we fill our mouth with statements all day long, but then, at the time of enabling assumptions, there is no way... You seem to be willing to show us that this is not a country for women, for women or for children, and that is why they do not devote enough effort to these two collections. I'm done, Mr. Vice President, because I insist that the list is absolutely long. You have not addressed the rationalization of spending, details that may have been made, details that have been made with chainsaws until now. You had the opportunity to apply the microsurgery scalpel. They didn't. You continue to subsidize private communication media, your media courtiers, while lowering the premise of the Catalan Broadcasting Corporation. You have not addressed the issue of tax benefits: 1,200_million of the tax benefits that are given to Catalonia to certain sectors are solely the responsibility of the Government of Catalonia, and do not address it. And you are addressing the issue of international expansion. Miri, we agree – agree – with the international presence of Catalonia, very much in agreement, for many reasons, but not in anything. The other day, Mr. Romeva told us that if we did not want these assumptions, then we would not have delegations in some places, and among these delegations there were those of the Vatican. The truth is, he gave us a good move, another one, not to vote for them. Do you really think we need a delegation to the Vatican in accounts to do some other things? I'm done. These are some of the many reasons that have brought us to Catalonia Yes, it is possible to present the message to the totality and to ask the Government that it is withdrawn, that it is possible to think, that it does its dues and becomes aware of the situation there. We can't vote on assumptions that would imply endorsement of policies that we don't share, among other things because we approve of these assumptions – and this is the trap that I'm afraid you have prepared for – I would like to say that I approve the assumptions of the whole legislature, because an approved date could be extended throughout 2016. Now the situation is that we will most likely not have assumptions and have a government that is in the UVI, that only survives with assisted life. Mr. Puigdemont, you are a president who, in order to survive politically, needs to be embroiled in two artificial assisted systems: on the one hand, you are economically embroiled in an artificial color that pumps blood, which is the FLA, which manages Mr. Montoro; on the other hand, you have an assisted breath with an artificial lung that is called the CUP. And, of course, the two things at the same time cause you an internal political disruption that you can't bear. How long do you think you can take this? End when? Do you think this is going to take a long time? As long as they think they can endure a country with a political government, the result of the unfolding personality in which they have installed their full route? Look, I'm no one..., we're no one to give advice to you, but I think – I think – if there's any teachers around here – I don't know if there's Mrs. Rigau – I'd say to her, "Look, you know what? Now vagina to the thinker and there's a stonette thinking what's happened – what's happened. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Maybe that's... - maybe that's... [[remorse of the voice]] I said Mrs. Rigau, huh? , not another master – perhaps so – perhaps so – when he has come out of this state of shock in which he is now found, you may understand that he needs to recompose the situation with another full road, which passes inexorably through the right to decide through the referendum. If you think, if you are able to think and hear what has happened after the June 26 elections, that I hope that for all of you there will be a great opportunity, you will know that we will, as always, be willing to return to this situation and rebuild another full road to this country; another full road that will be uprooted, but not from the denial of reality; a full road that will recognize the right to decide in reference; a full road of social and environmental policies. Of the assumptions of 2017 and of the referendum, we would be willing to talk if you, after June 26th, recap a little. Clearly, before, perhaps, before all this, it will be necessary to give the view to the citizenry, because it is the citizenry that, with its vote, passes us from the bottom of the bag to what you have brought us and from which you do not know how to get us out. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.13.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Fourth speech to the totality, presented by the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To defend her, Mr. Enric Millo has the word. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.14.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an African fault that says that there was a scorpion passing at the edge of a river and wanted to cross the other side, and asks a grain: "What would you carry to the other side of the river? And she said, "No, what do you think I'm stupid? That in picaries, in kills and insuffers. He says, "No, I'm not stupid either, if you do that, we'll both be in love, I won't do it. The conviction and the door on the other side, however, halfway through, the scorpion bites the grain and sinks, and when the grain sinks, he says: "What have you done? He said: "I couldn't help it, it's my natural one. [[Some applause.]] Reminds me a lot of what it looks like today will inevitably happen. I haven't been able to avoid referring to this fault, it must be my natural one, but if something is so clear, you can't avoid referring to it. A few times a presuppositional debate has generated as much expectation as today's. I remember debates about how practically neither the communication media spoke, and they passed as if there was no king here, right? But here there is a debate, today, that generates expectation, precisely, because it is produced, as I say, this fault that I have just explained. Why do we present a statement to the whole under this assumption? Basically for seven motius– seven motius–: this is a assumption that up late and poorly, without the support needed to pull forward. It is a presupposition that takes advantage of the wind in favor of the Government of Spain, but it does not make any effort, contrary to which the Lord Counselor defends. They're the presuppositions of the process. You want them to be in the process, but they're not, and they're not in the economic recovery either. They want to consolidate structures of the State, it's what you seem to want, but they don't let them do it, and what happens is that it generates social disability. Sacrifice institutional stability to try to satisfy the anti-systems. Put your hand to the catalan butxaca and practice the authentic tax policy, and it does not serve for economic recovery or to create occupation. These are the seven reasons for which we are presenting a statement to the totality, but I want to develop it a little. Let me make some preconceived considerations of general character. First, the economic environment. And you, Mr. Junqueras, had it very easy: you have the wind on your face, or better said, "Which one, no? That's what the planes say, in favor. The presupposition of a crisis that had to be led by Councilman Mas-Colell, we still remember, didn't have easy people, it's just recognizing it today, it's just justice. But you have a macroeconomic quad that your predecessor would have wanted to have for him. You have a very different square. And you recognize it in the same motley display, don't you? « Robust growth of the economy, net creation of work places and reduction of the weather. Fantastic. Remember how Catalonia was five years ago? And how is he now? I don't want to upset them, huh? But there are some numbers I like to remember. Only some data that can illustrate how the situation is changing. The number of young people joining our community here in Catalonia was reduced by 16,000 last month, and we have succeeded in having 107,000 Catalans and Catalans find work in the past year. At the national level, we have lowered the psychological barrier of the 4_millions of crops for the first time since the year 2004. The year 2015 the Catalan economy grew a 3.4_per_cent, an increase that returns us to growth taxes that we did not register since the year 2007. In fact, the improvement of our economy can be seen in a progressive improvement throughout the year 2015, from a 2.8_per_cent in the first quarter to 3.9 in the third quarter. Tax reductions on the IRPF state tram have allowed Catalans to save more than 300_million euros on the state tram of the tax. Fixed 'just virtuoso circle, counselor: political reforms, economic growth, creation of occupation and lowering of taxes to middle working classes and to pimes. Exactly the opposite of what you defend. You intend to spend more and after the cycle goes backwards until it generates more trouble. This is the macroeconomic mark that has been found, the best mark in business since 2010, and the best mark in economic growth since 2007 – that's what it was. But, fix's, Mr. Junqueras, that, of all the things that I've done right now, of the positive news that they can give to Catalans, that they can give among all today to Catalans and that are positive, the influence of the Government of the Generality has been very small. The Government of the Generality has had very little responsibility for this merit. Actually, I'd say practically no. It's more, really, what you, from the rupturist government, have done is try to put all the sticks in the wheels that have been able to recover. All this has one responsible, this better to the economy, if today Catalonia grows more, more Catalans are working and Catalan families pay less IRPF, it is because there is a loyal government with Catalans, a government that fulfills its commitments, a government that does things well; this is the Government of the People's Party, the Government of President Rajoy, even though they don't like them – even though they don't like them. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] A government that has made reforms, while you are doing counter-reforms; that has reduced taxes, while you are pushing them; that has guaranteed stability, while you are playing and still playing, still today, with this assumption, to permanent destabilization. A government of President Rajoy who has been more loyal to the Catalans than you yourselves, than President Puigdemont, than all his advisors and all the deputies who support this government today. It is more, a government that has been more loyal to the same Government of the Generality, to the benefit of Catalans, than its own members of the CUP. If not, say'm, Mr Junqueras, a reform alone – a reform alone – which your Government has called for economic recovery – and can ask you the same question as any Catalan who is listening to us – it will find it very difficult to explain a reform alone – a reform alone. There are other elements of this environment that also condition this assumption. The ones I call the mantras independence, right? ; these mantras that repeat to us every day without fatigue, which are based on a repetition – as I say – of a lie a thousand times repeated: « Guilt the tea Madrid, the guilt the Spanish tea..., continue in the day, follow in the night: « Guilt the tea Madrid. Always with this mantra, right? And the deficiencies don't explain themselves that way. The assumed fiscal deficit with the State Administration that you amount to 15,000_million euros and around 7.5_percent of GDP could perfectly be 3,000_million dollars and be at 1.6 of GDP, depending on how you calculate it, you cheat when you calculate it. The data is relevant, because we're tired of feeling that with independence we'll get rid of this tax deficit and tie the kids to long-term. The financing system... the other one, right? : it is painful and can reform it. Of course I do! We haven't talked more than once in this room. Miri, you will find us – as I have already said – in order to improve the bail system, but not in the speech to attribute the reduction of the tickets to the same system – which you certainly did. The bulk of the Generality's revenues has occurred in the collection of the taxes that are favourable and are effectively transferred; it has gone from 5,500_millions in 2007 to 2,600_millions in 2013. You know: the fault, therefore, of the reduction of entrances, is neither of Spain, nor of the system of financing, is of the crisis. And that's to say, because if we don't explain it, we're lying. Third element: the problem of public debt and deficit. You talked about it... in your intervention, you talked about it, and it seemed that you had discovered the importance of the debt and the..., that's what we've been saying for a while, didn't you? It's been a while, isn't it? We also care, and very much, about public debt, in all its breadth. But the following aspects need to be taken into account: first, that the debt has its origin in the flawed successes and that is precisely why we insist on the need to control the flaws, unlike what you preach, which have turned a negative thing into positive, and when they do not let them be flawed, they complain that they do not let them be flawed. It's the upside-down world. The dynamic – second – of deficits began with the tripartite, so you, friends of the Republican Left of Catalonia, have a very important responsibility over the debt that we are taking over today. Few people already remember that before the year 2007 the annual deficits were around 400, 500_million euros. And in the 2008 budget we went from EUR 470_million in deficit to EUR 5,200_million in deficit. A small increment of 1.000_per_cent, more than 1.000_per_cent; a slight increment, right? From there we begin to accumulate these deficiencies that have been in this line every year. Structured financing systems also worry us. You didn't talk about it today. We didn't have to talk, but we couldn't have time. This year there are 1,070 million euros, and here the tripartite, and therefore the Republican Left, also have an important responsibility, which you did not talk about. I per last: to wear mites. In the assumption – which we do not share – that we stop paying the debt, that some now preach that what they should do is stop paying the debt. Listen, we don't pay the debt, and it's gone, right? So, we wouldn't solve anything, we wouldn't fix it, either. And to explain it, the Catalans have a right to know. Because we will continue to need loans to meet the planned expenses. I mean, the government is still spending more than it has, and so the problem is still feeling the same. I fourth element: the miratge deceived you of social spending. You wanted us to believe that this assumption is the great panacea of social spending. And it's not true. As long as they look at the right as if they look at the other way around, in these assumptions social spending does not increase their pes relatiu, but rather the decrease. The opposite, exactly, of what you explain. According to the government's accounts, if they get public transportation, that the past year wasn't there, they see the difference. If you look at the size of social programmes in relation to the rest of the programmes, excluding final and financial expenditure, you see what the difference is, and if you compare it to the 2015 budget, implemented, the social expenditure forecast for 2016 is much lower. Five element: a misguided fiscal policy, which is what you defend. Lowering taxes, which is what the People's Party defends, which we have already stayed alone in this chamber by doing so, is not an ideological whim. It's a need to strengthen economic recovery, but the most worrying thing about everything is that the Economics and History Advisor doesn't seem to know exactly what he wants to do. First he came out publicly saying that he wanted to push the IRPF, then the president rectified him; still after the councilman says that he will do what the Parliament does... It is to say that: congratulations. You must be the only Economics and History advisor who doesn't know exactly what to do with taxes, right? It does not have a defined criteria on fiscal policy to follow, and it would be necessary. Well, I come to the second chapter of this intervention: let's go to the premise. The background, the context that conditions this assumption I have just explained. I'll prove it's not true what you wanted us to believe. He wants to make a difference to us for the big beast, and it's not the same; it's different things. First, the entrances of this pressupost come conditioned for some important facts that worth having present: a estalvi of 850_million euros in the interests of the debt. He referred to it today, but very slightly, and in any case, he didn't make the slightest reference to who is the origin of this. Pretty easy, thanks to the damn FLA, huh? – the evil FLA –, that autonomous liquidity fund, which we paid 0_per_cent last year, that this year we pay 0.8 and that, therefore, supposes..., the year passed an estalvi of 1,500_million euros and this 2016, so – you have already said it before – 863_million euros. That is to say, mirin, 2011 the debt was 37,500_million euros, of the Generality, and cost us 1,400 of interests. Today's debt is 76,600 and it's 863. Now, the counselor held the bar to say that the government made a great effort to reduce the interest of the debtor. Home, no; it must be the Government of Spain that thanks to its credibility achieves barred funding and allows it to donate to autonomous communities at 0_per_cent. This is reality; it can explain how it is common, but this is reality. I know what's bothering you, huh? But the truth is, from time to time, it's appropriate to say it. According to the item: the deficit target, which was initially set at 0.3_per_cent, but thanks to the negotiation of the Government of Spain with the European Commission, has risen to 0.7_per_cent. And this, to you, allows you to dispose of the little less than xifra of 850_million euros more than you thought until April, when you asked to get to the '1.07_percent deficit. All that's the same because, ultimately, if you give it 1 or 0 and Mig or Mig, you don't complete it and so it's the same, right? You knew 2015 was 0.7 and you did 2.7. Third element: the effects of economic recovery. Of course, the one you wanted to put up with, remember? Huh? He threatened one day to put an end to the Catalan economy. So, well, it allows this economic recovery – not thanks to the Government of the Generality – to recover or dispose, better said, of 1,968 additional_millions, the result of the liquidation of the financing model of the exercise 2014, which you did not talk about, and of the major contributions during 2016, the corresponding beast. Certainly, it's not true what he said before the beasts are always calculated by the bottom. 2008 and 2009 the beast was positive in favor of the Generalitat, huh? And on this year's assumption you've put 124 million euros in it to pay for what needs to be returned to the State and doesn't return it, but it's a two-year delay. No, it's worth saying things for his name, huh? Fourth element: between higher revenue and increases in taxes and taxes and transfers, you have an additional 525_million euros. And that's because of a better behavior of the economy, but also to a greater fiscal effort that the Catalans will do, and that too should be said. And it's not true that they don't pay any more; yes, they will also pay more. This is the mark that allows you to have an additional 3,343_million euros to your predecessor. I would have liked Mr. Mas-Colell – I would have liked him already. You've got this. And how do they distribute them? Here's the question. How do they distribute this available increment of inputs? So, mir, roughly: 2,200_millions to cover the hole that left it, precisely, [[the timer riu]] Mr. Mas-Colell with those inflated tickets that you didn't make, you also have to recognize yourself, but you have to cover that hole. 2,200 to cover the remaining 1,100 per borehole, at major expense – the 1,100_million you say we have – all right. And this is the main reason why we also present this goal to the totality, because the objective of this premise, the real objective that it cherishes, is not people; it is not to dedicate these 1,100_million additional euros to improving the quality of life of people, Catalans, which is what the People's Party government would do to Catalonia if possible. No, no, The objective is the process of independence and seek to satisfy the UPC, that is the objective. I have talked about the situation that conditions the tickets, and why you can face a better assumption than that of your predecessor. Now I want to talk about the erratic policies of spending and the mistakes and traps that exist in this premise, which also, of course, justify our political position. First. It's the presupposition of the state structures. That's what you said. Actually, on the premise, you see a little. I don't know if it's gonna be any good for them, because that's what I think it was to satisfy the UPC, or it's just because you think it is – try it. You live in a parallel world, a world that is not true; it is an authentic disconnection with the real world, which you have; not a disconnection with Spain; you have disconnected from the real world. He gave them the principle that their assumptions, like his government, are not the assumptions we need the Catalans. They're the assumptions that the process needs. You have made a presupposition to the measurement of the process, not to the measurement of the Catalans. Don't confuse one thing with the other, which is very different things. This, Mr. Junqueras, is the premise that requires disconnection, division, confrontation; it is not the premise of occupation, economic growth, recovery. It is the premise that consolidates the structures of the state. Almenys, you pretend. We can't share this object, it's not people's. They've converted the Suspicious Trees... Forgive me, from Outside Trees, haven't they? They have converted it into the most expensive travel agency of history: 50,9_million euros because the Romeva advisor wanders around the world explaining stories and vague creating stone cart embassies to make videoconferencing of crisis cabinets. Home, that's raising money – 50,9_million euros. Let's continue with the deployment of absolutely useless state structures. Now they want a tax administration of their own with a presupposition of 50_millions, that is to say, five times more than it is destined for the poor energy. And then he'll say they can't fight the poor energy because the state won't let them have the tools to do it. But with these 50_millions, they solve the problem of energy poverty. Now, it's a priority issue: you prefer to spend money on other things. Third element. You will again convert into Spain's best-paid political elite. Home, it's also a priority, that, for you, but it's not Catalan. They're going to push the subs back to the councillors and to the top. They recover the two foreign payments while the Generalitat's officials are still not aware of the 2012 and they still do not know when they will recover the 2013 and 2014 payments. By the way, the deputies of this chamber don't get it back either. But the government does, it looks like it does. In the end they were right – in the end they were right – they got the government of the best, what happens is that the sentence had to be finished: it is the government of the best paid of all Spain; this is the reality. [[Voice remorse and some applause.]] And a last element, another element, still. The Catalan public television, the television of all the independenceists continue to feel the jewel of the crown and the most expensive television of all Spain, with a financing that exceeds those of Andalusian television and that of the Basque Country together. We don't need any more state structures, ladies and gentlemen – we don't need any more state structures – which we need are more social structures, more economic reforms and more tax reductions; that's what we need, not what you're putting in your premise. Second. I've been talking about the structures. The assumption here is that of the social deficit, it's not that of the fiscal deficit. There's a trick in this premise. Mr Junqueras, your process, your government has a social deficit that we pay among all Catalans. Miri, when you presented this premise, qualified as the best of social history, you spoke to us about an increase of 874 million social expenditure. But he had a trap, which he didn't explain to us is what the real situation of the generality's social spending is; he didn't explain it to us. In order to see it, we will have to analyze it in comparison to the rest of years and in comparison, too, to the rest of autonomous communities, which should do so. Because when I am ready, let us compare; now when I am not ready, then I am not. Encany, among the programs of social protection, social promotion, health and education we will have a total reversal of 16,155_million euros. It's a lot or a little bit, isn't it? Depén. If we compare it to other years we will see that these 16,155 are far below the 18,425 of the year 2010– when Convergence arrived at the Government, certainly. You haven't prioritized social policies, and that means we haven't recovered the level of reversal before. Neither the absolute level nor the per capita level, which someone could say: "No, but per capita. No, if in 2010 the social expenditure was 2,469 euros per català, today it is 2,184 euros, almost three hundred euros less. So let's go back. But if the comparison of the rest of the autonomous communities – comparisons already know that they are hateful and, in this case, very much – we are the thirty autonomous community at social expense. The tretzena of dissected autonomous communities. Do you remember where we are the second community in per capita assumptions? Yeah? So, on a per capita social expense, no. That's the assumption you're putting us through. I mean, do we have the capacity to invest? Yeah. In social policy? Yeah. Is that supposed to be the case? No, no, That's the truth. Third element, the understatement of education. Here some fill the mouth of the import of teaching. It creates the premise because it creates the conjunct of the premise, but not because we see it as a priority, but we will continue much under the middle of the expense for students respect most communities, too. And what is worse, is continuing to give an insufficient response to the need to replace barracks in schools. It's more, we'll go past course and we'll go from having 996 barracks the previous course to 1.011 the next course. Where's the commitment to get rid of the barracks? They've already forgotten. Another element, the abandonment of sanitation. Look, an important point we find in the department that presumably grows the most from the premise – I see that the counselor has left, that he has seen himself come. From the outset, tell him that we value positively the increase of the presumption in the matter of salvation, but it is insufficient and, moreover, not credible. The deviation of the past exercise, basically to the CatSalut, was of 1,850_million euros, but the increase of the assumption is of little more than 300, this is the reality. That is to say, of the 302_millions that increase the assumption of the department, 271 go directly to health policies of the CatSalut, of which 156 go to the most important policies. But what's left of it, up to 271 million? Shall we go? Did you look at that? I'm sure the other groups have looked into it, too. A small part, 4.7_millions, go to the Administration, but the most important part is 97.9_millions. You know where they're going? You don't know, it's the ghost game of Salut's presupposition. It was well damaged, but we found it: "Miscellaneous expenses. This import is roughly the same as the forecast in the 96-million shoc plan to reduce the waiting lists, agreed with the UPC, that they certainly don't know what to do with it, because if they knew what to do with the parties, and said, "We'll do this, we'll do this, we'll do this to fight the waiting lists. But they don't, surely, because they don't know. They haven't made it clear. Home, what you could have done with this game is set it up as the "Free CUP" title. It would be more honest and more transparent. What do we give them, to 926,000 Catalans who are in these moments on waiting lists? They don't know what to do? That we've put in a miscellaneous expense item to see what in fact? Don't you give them a little bit of shame? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Five element, the retalada of the inversions. The councilman didn't talk about it. The last month of February was the opening of the tram from line 9 to the airport of Barcelona, and while the president was complaining, as always, of the scarce investments of the State – it was not the case – the councilman Rull filled his mouth saying that they would make an effort to put in service the maximum number of stations of the branch of the Free Zone. We can see that this effort that the councilman announced must have been left in a bluff, because the premise is not meant for anything. Almenys, we haven't found it. He's either so surprised he's not seen, or he's simply not destined for anything. And if it's different, then they'll explain it to us. Moreover, the investments, in this assumption, are reduced from 1,200_million to 950_million in relation to 2015, and thus, no metro, no schools, no hospitals, no res. Nor does our vote in favour, of course. Only the embassies and offices of the Catalan tax agency grow. In short, this is not the assumption that we would make; this is not the assumption that the Catalans would have a government in Catalonia of the People's Party, because it is not what the Catalans need. It's not the government of Catalans, it's the government of Junts for the Yes, of his dreams, and it had to be the government of the CUP, but it doesn't seem to be at last. These may be the assumptions that you need, as I say, for your internal balances. We don't know if they're interested in their partners either, but what we know for sure is that they're not the assumptions that Catalans need, because Catalans don't need any more assumptions that consolidate the social deficit we suffer. We need a government that breaks down the structures of the State and prioritizes social structures. That's what we need. Because Catalans don't need any more assumptions than to consolidate the tax policy of the Generality. We need a tax reform that allows us to consolidate economic recovery and job creation; there's enough to get our hands on Catalans' buttocks. But, above all, what we don't deserve from Catalans is a government that lives in permanent instability, in daily confrontation, a government that doesn't know what it wants for itself, and what is worse, Mr. Junqueras, that doesn't know what it wants for Catalonia or for Catalans, because it's going for the worst company, if what it wants to be disabled. The CUP will never give a government, either its own or its own, an off-set. It's logical, it's coherent, it's about an anti-system party that can't and can't criticize, which, obviously, will do nothing to consolidate the system; in any case, it will want another one or there isn't, but it doesn't blame the situation on the CUP, as it did after his speech today. It is not the fault of the members of the CUP, it is the fault of you, the members and deputies of Convergence and Esquerra, who only want to accompany the CUP. We, as many of you have done before and have ceased to do so, believe in a cohabitational, united Catalonia. Also attached to the rest of Espanya. A Catalonia of values, values like that representing families more than not tribes. ; families who have been able to temper the effects of the crisis, from which we have not yet come out of everything, but that we are on the way out. Values like now respect for diversity and plurality, which you have abandoned. Values like the traditional entrepreneur who has always characterized the Catalan society at the length of history. Values so little discussed now as the right to own property and that its travel companies now want to put themselves in crisis. Conclusion – and I finish – counselor: don't see in our position a not because no; I don't know if it's a quiet no, but I can tell you that it's a sincere and argued no. And he also sees an offering. We in the People's Party are convinced that it is not good for the Catalans that the government takes advantage of the most extremist and indecisive of the chamber, and that is much more popular in Catalonia. That's why we're holding our hands, to start, if you want, talking about the assumptions of 2017. For this way to avoid the blockade that they suffer from their members of the CUP and that Catalonia does not deserve. I have to tell you one thing, today it may seem that everything is lost; some are already talking about possible early elections; surely you will not do it and try to pull forward with an extended assumption. That in fact, you, even though you have painted it very tragically, know that with an extended assumption you can do many things. Finally it can bring to the chamber proposals for modification of the premise. And if you need our votes to solve staff problems, you can count on them, huh? That's to say, don't come here saying that there are things that if we have an extended assumption it can't be solved. Yes, they can solve it. Some, of course, will be harder to solve, but you can count on this chamber if you want to meet the needs of Catalans and here you will find us. For other wars, no, I say no. When the People's Party ruled Spain, Catalans were better off. When the People's Party was decided in Catalonia, taxes went down and Catalans came out winning. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, that might sound weird to someone, 'cause it's not part of the official report, is it? And you know why? Because counting on the People's Party is counting on compromise and loyalty, which others don't do, because we're counting on stability and the guarantee of the future, and the Government of Spain is showing it. I say to them – and with this I finish –: I put an end to this meaningless process, this process of division, of division, of division, of separation. Put the end, publicly, to this process. Put the end to this race that doesn't take place, and tomorrow we can take the table to talk, to talk about things that maybe unite us, to talk about how to solve the real problems that Catalans have instead of wasting time talking about problems between parties that only think about breaking, separating and dividing. That's how they don't do grain and stop trusting the scorpion. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.15.0	Thank you, Mr. Millo. Five talks to the totality, presented for the Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. To defend her, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.16.0	Good morning. I would ask Mr. Millo if he also remembers the fault of the deaf grain, which might come more with some reality that you know better. Today, for the CUP - Constituent Creed we do not discuss a simple debate of assumptions. We have come from day one to say that the numbers accompany the policies. Mathematicians may feel that they are neutral, but the economy is never neutral. And we do not deceive ourselves or want to deceive anyone: today we are not happy, today the CUP - Creed Constituent would have wanted to do another thing, but we must have been present, too, that we did not present ourselves to the elections together for the Yes. So, it's important to make it clear that the CUP - Call Constituent and Together for the Yes represent two different political projects and that we have one thing in common, important and cabdal, such as the will to advance towards independence. But, among other things, what differs or differs from Junts for the Yes is that the social and economic policy approaches we defend are often radically opposed to what Junts for the Yes poses. But today we also want to remind some of us and remind everyone that we have a shared work plan, that we have the statement of November 9, despite the fact that someone continues to deny it. That we have the break with the Spanish State as a common objective and here we are, convinced that the most important law – and this, yes, will be the most important law – that this Parliament will have to approve and approve this legislature, will be the Law of Legal Transition. This is the important and important law that marks our way through this legislature. And speaking clearly and entering a bit of a presupposition, are these assumptions better than the previous ones? Yes, but they are manifestly insufficient to deal with some of the problems that we could face from now on, and also insufficient to extend – in our opinion – the independence support. They are simply assumptions that accept the FLA mark, that they do not question the intervention of the accounts by the Spanish State, or the priorityization of the debt. And that's why today we keep the message to the full, because the marches with which these assumptions are made remain subject to Montoro and the troika, because the marches of these assumptions remain without putting at the center obedience to the Parliament of Catalonia and, therefore, disobedience to all those institutions that go against the will of the people of Catalonia. Moreover, today we must insist once again that the process of restructuring capitalism established in the past few years is designing societies where social emergence is chronic and becomes a reality of misery for millions of people in our home. Austerity as received for the outflow of the crisis is a lot of bad news for the assembly of popular classes, who see how social rights are reduced and working and living conditions are pre-characterized. Faced with this reality, the instruments of economic policy with which public institutions today rely – the Generality too – become part of the problem more than elements that allow us to face the social reality that we are living. In a model of capitalism that ensures its benefits on the basis of increasing poverty and inequality geometrically, we have, in the best of cases, instruments of economic policy that enable them to take on an arithmetical proportion. Geometric ratio versus arithmetic ratio; obviously, numbers don't come out. As a result, we have to ensure that every year that goes by, social reality takes root, despite some of the more recent triumphalist speeches, and that the resources we have to deal with it are more migrated in relation to it and not even higher in absolute terms. So, public policy, today, has become the policy of the management of misery, and leaves, every time, the growing majority of the population in the background, in the background, in the hands of charity. So, while the different political formations, all of them or the vast majority of this chamber, which are now in government, are resigned to becoming the managers of the misery, we, from the CUP - Crida Constituent, in line with the cry that at the length of the years has emerged many outraged and rebellious reasons of our society, we understand that the time has come to say enough, that the time has come to demand all the changes that are necessary and to the level that you need to start building a society where the rights of people are ahead of the rights and interests of banks, speculators and corrupt people. And we believe it, and here we understand that we can find and we can find bridges with a lot more people; we believe it for reasons of social justice and collective dignity, because at some point it is necessary to put up with the wisdom, at some point to say enough to the rescue of the powerful, that, long to pay the consequences of the outcome that has been caused for years, they have managed to respond to the weakest of them. We believe, indeed – and we give it with total sincerity and conviction – that we are living a historic moment and that this is an extraordinary legislature. At a time of change as important as this, we believe that we have a fundamental responsibility: either we are able to give out to all the hopes of political and social regeneration, of transparency and respect to all the public, as citizenship requires, or we will have to suffer the consequences that are the result of the frustration that many people will experience with the incompletion of expectations they hold in these promises of change. These consequences – the fruit of disenchantment and frustration, too, and we must bear in mind – can take the form of the monster of the extreme right, as we see many countries around us and we live with great concern what is happening in many European countries. After the elections of 27 September, an extraordinary period opened up in our country: a 48_percent of the city was and is the starting point that allows us to start the journey towards the new Catalan republic. As we have said before, with the statement of 9 November, it was clear that the way to travel during these days was settled, with a very clear objective: to get all those people who for various reasons were still not fully convinced at the time of independence. Thus, from the CUP - Constituent Creed, to cover successfully the undertaking that started on 27 September, we were and are clear that during these divides it is necessary to give clear and unambiguous signs that will be social policies, participation and democracy, as well as the firm commitment acquired before a vast majority of citizens, the food that must be fed until the day of its birth, this collective daughter that will be converted or that will take the form of a republican society. And it is obvious that the assumptions are for us an important moment in the course, a key moment in the legislature where, through what represents this instrument of economic policy, it is possible to give credibility or not to the relation we are building. The assumptions can be a clear realization of which is social quality, redistributive and coherence with firmness towards independence. Or quite the contrary, to give a clear signal of continuity, of the follow-up of austerity and impotence before the central government's impositions. From this perspective, we have to recognize that from the CUP - Creed They constitute these decibuds, both for what the recourse or the way used until now with the assumptions as for the final result that today we are debating in this plenary. The assumptions presented to us today by the Government, for us, are unsatisfactory at the social level: they become the obedience of public policies to the interests of the powerful; they see the impotence of these policies to fight against the poor, precariousness and inequality, and they also imply an acceptance of the chronification of the poor and inequality as structural elements of our society. And yes, there is a shoal valued at 285_million euros. What is EUR 285_million before EUR 5,300_million in retail since 2010? We cannot talk about the more social assumptions of history in the mark of one of the most unequal societies in Europe and we cannot have the will to improve the progress of fiscal policy by involving the most powerful supporters of public support. Throughout this process, a debate that is central to us has been denied or adjourned: the debate on taxation and the economic model. In this sense, once more they have covered themselves with shame, with a porta attitude before the State and the Austerity table we have not addressed or we have not entered into a policy debate for it. What's not good is putting the debate ahead of which country model we want in electoral strategies and what ends up feeling unentitled is cheating and shielding ourselves in the post-debate or addressing certain debates. One thing is clear: all the time we take and use to speculate and not to give face before the citizenry to solve the central issues is a precious time that we lose for the construction of the republic. All these months we've been clear and transparent, or we've wanted to be. To reduce inequality and to obtain more resources, to make social policy, such as a reform of the IRPF and of the inheritance tax and assets; imposed, for another group, on which autonomy has many skills to turn them into a tool of struggle against inequality, a tool to complement and deepen into assumptions that wanted to be eminently expanded. And we ask ourselves: is it really possible to talk about building a new country without knowing what we really think of all the political forces here in Parliament or all the political forces within independence? Is this debate really about postponing you taking into account the social reality that is ailing? For us, these assumptions have to send a very clear signal of firmness, of decision; they have to show to the assembly of the citizenry and before the rest of the state and European institutions that the process of independence is indeed going on. But before that, we'll find some assumptions that will settle before Montoro. In a Catalan economy that is already involved for the central government – and in this we share diagnosis, criticism, complaint – the acceptance of 0.7 of the public deficit topall is to accept political harassment. With the Law of Enabling in hand, the Law of Enabling Spain, we could solve a major deficit, even with the Airef, as the Vice President said before; and even the Airef that enables us to have a deficit level above 0.7. But we accept 0.7. And, therefore, what we do accepting 0.7 is accept defeat before the authoritarianism of the Spanish State and here is where we, the CUP - Constituent Creed, cannot accept it. We believe that the assumptions are, and may be and must be, an opportune moment to explain to us, to show with facts and no words, no gestures, what is our country bet and how to move forward to fulfill it. A wonderful moment... that the steps towards independence are irreversible and that precisely the exercise of our right to decide goes so as not to admit the blackmail of facing the social reality of our society with castrated resources for austerity. For us, what can be expressed with the assumptions is that the Catalan society is not prepared to see any more people, neither will it be cold nor lack of housing or school, anyone. And this is the reason not to accept today some imposed assumptions that, precisely, condemn the Catalan society to all these sufferings and only offer us the wreaths to deal with them. We understand that the later days and the later weeks we have advanced in points of finding, we have advanced in lines to be sufficient, we have advanced with political proposals to respond to the assumptions, and that is why today we say that it does not end for ourselves, for ourselves, for the rest of the world... We believe that today we have the opportunity to learn from the later weeks, and, as we have always said, to lay the foundations for working for break-up and for the process they constitute, to work forward in a shared framework of how we understand the pre-republican, post-republican, or the assumptions that must lead us to break-up. If we understand each other in the framework that these assumptions are to be defined, we will advance collectively and together. If we use the collective intelligence we will tend to touch what we marked in the statement of November 9. And here, we also wanted to remember the 10th generation – here. We said: "They will find us in everything I want to see with the construction of the republic. Yesterday, the Bureau of this Parliament accepted the Law of the Catalan Agency of Social Protection, a piece of a tool that has to be used to build the social security of the Catalan Republic. And here we found each other, we found each other and we found each other. Let us use the assumptions as a political tool; let us use the assumptions as the one that must hold on to the republic; let us use the assumptions not as the way to continue politics of the past years, but to really lay the foundations of the new society that we build, to really lay the foundations of this process of confrontation with the democratic state as well. And from here we'll keep moving. Just to finish, remember, and that everyone remembers, statements that have been made, statements that have been made. It's not a political deal today. [[Widow's remorse.]] You have a political agreement that changes. We remember statements in communication media, where someone said: "The assumptions are not assured, and if we go for the extension, things can be done. We work to build the assumptions of 2017, which are the assumptions of the breakup, the ones that unite us and the ones that lay the foundations of the Catalan Republic. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. MPs, MPs, many thanks to everyone. We suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.18.0	It's part of the session. Very nice late. Then, in order to position himself on the totality items, he has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si, Mr. Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.19.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselor, deputies, deputies, I begin by the end of my intervention, and in fact by the conclusion. Basically, to avoid misunderstandings in this chamber, but above all to avoid misunderstandings outside this chamber, to the people who are listening to us. I begin by saying that today we don't give up any way – today we don't give up any way; today we don't give up anything; today we don't stop moving; today, more than ever, we are committed to moving forward to achieve the democratic mandate of 27 September, which is a treasure around which we never resign. Today, therefore, do not stop walking. Because we have a compromise with the citizenry and a parliamentary settlement in this Parliament. And we try to be consistent with what we give and what we do. Therefore, we are fulfilling our commitments, our agreements. Now, it would be naive, and even fearless, that we don't recognize today that I send it to the totality, to the totality, are an important interbank in this journey. Very important. They are a very important obstacle in the course that we have recommended to us to start this legislature. They are an obstacle not only for all the people who expected us to approve these assumptions, but also for the full route, for the execution of this full route. So, today, the same way we do with strength that we keep walking, we also have to say that the chord hangs with a thread. We're still walking, but the chord hangs on a wire. We're not tired, we're not giving up, we're not giving up. Because we are compromised with the work of this legislature, specifically with the assumptions, but above all we are compromised with the democratic mandate that held us to the citizenship of Catalonia on 27 September. Therefore, we have an objective in this legislature. We have come to lead the country to its own state, to the proclamation of the republic. And that's what we're gonna do. That's what we're going to do because we've bought into this country's city. In politics, it's basic, trust. You know perfectly well. And more for basing changes of great descent, of great depth. And since we live in an exceptional legislature, trust must also be exceptional. And trust means loyalty, and loyalty means rigour, rigour, and rigour in relation to others. And today, yesterday night and today this morning, we have heard claims that they do not respond to this rigour, that they are directly false. We heard that there were not enough meetings to talk about these assumptions, as if there was a desire on the part of the government to approve them. Absolutely. There have been all the meetings and all the finds that have been much more. It was also said that these assumptions had been raised directly in the chamber without having been granted them before. And, in fact, it had been raised and granted with the CUP Group that precisely the modification of the assumptions, the enrichment of the assumptions, would be done because of the considerations. So, after this debate, it's a totality. So it was granted to the group that today kept the message to the totality, with the CUP Group. Therefore, there is a lack of rigour, some falsehoods that we have felt between yesterday and today, but that in any case they are simply functional, simply methodology, and the important thing today is that we focus on the content of the assumptions. We understand assumptions not only as a day-to-day management tool, a management tool of the Administration of the Generality. It's that, too, but it's not just that. Some assumptions, obviously, are to do politics. Some assumptions, therefore, must contribute to changing the immediate reality in which they fit in, but they must also be a lever of change, they must have a vocation of transformation. Sometimes with a limited recourse. Sometimes, certainly, with a small recurrence. But, in any case, the assumptions must be a lever of change and must show transformative will. And that's what the government has raised with these assumptions, and that's, in a way, what we recommended to the Group of Joints for Yes and what we were told to the citizens of Catalonia. Therefore, these assumptions were made in a _framework in which there were two basic assumptions at the beginning. The first was to be assumptions that would provide tools to help people, especially the most vulnerable. But here, too, is a tool to prepare this country for the transition process, for the republic. These were the two premises, the two objectives with which the Government and Together for Yes looked at the elaboration of these assumptions. That is to say, to deal urgently with the social needs of a good part of the population, but at the same time, to continue to deploy, to continue to develop, the full road that we have marked a clear social and parliamentary majority of this country. And it is in relation to these objectives, to these initial premises, that we should value these assumptions, regardless of other considerations, regardless of other debates, regardless of other issues. If we have to value these assumptions, if we have to analyze these assumptions, we have to do it with these assumptions. And we do that, and we try to get these assumptions to basically answer three questions. The first: are they assumptions that improve the dignity of the people who suffer from the country? Second question: are they assumptions that help strengthen the middle classes of this country? And the third and last question: are they assumptions that prepare the country to take on a propitious state? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Radically yes to all three questions. These assumptions respond positively to these three questions, which we seem to be synthesizing about what was to be around this project that we are debating today. And let's not, obviously, ask rhetorical questions. Because if a grace has the presuppositions, it can be contrasted. If a grace has the presuppositions, it is that they do not demand acts of faith. Simply, what they ask is that it is contrasting figures, that it is looking at the parties, that it is seen if, effectively, there are resources behind the speeches, if behind the proclamations there are actual parties that make these proclamations obvious and palpable. So let us not ask for acts of faith. What we asked for was a thorough analysis of the numbers. And what these figures tell us is that it's a 74.6_percent of all social expense assumptions. More than ever. Percentage, more than ever. And they also tell us, these assumptions, that the 1,113 million euros of increase in relation to 2015..., of these 1,113 million euros, a 78,5_per_cent, is to say, 874 million euros, is destined for social policies. Completing the rock plan, I'm sure. But to go further there. A plate of rock that was valued at 280_million euros. So we're talking about 874 million euros in social parties. How is it distributed? EUR 316_million in sanitation, EUR 252_million in education and EUR 173_million in work and social affairs. The three pillars..., if we add culture to the four pillars of a welfare state, of the welfare state that these assumptions contribute to strengthening. Therefore, they are eminently social assumptions, the most social ones in relation to the later assumptions of the last years. But we dared to say that the most social in relation to all the assumptions that have been discussed in this chamber. Certainly, there are those who analyze it in absolute figures and, therefore, escape from analyzing the assumptions based on the contexts in which they are inserted, socioeconomic contexts. If we review it relatively, and therefore percentage, these are the most social assumptions. And they're the most social assumptions, not because they say the numbers, not because they say the numbers, but because these numbers and these figures have, in the end, names and surnames. They mean concrete programs, specific initiations. They mean, in the end, help the men and women, the families, of this country. And among other things, there is, for example, reducing waiting lists to public health, both surgical and normal; it means more teachers; it means re-opening CAP to the nests; it means more minimal insertion income. He wants to say a follow-up of things, a package of measures, that go to the heart of the country's urgent and social needs. So we're not talking about intentions. Today we are talking about facts, facts brought to us by the government, facts that have to contribute because the families of this country that do not yet notice the best of macroeconomic figures, the best of the economy, can take part in this growth. In fact, this is one of the objectives, it is the great challenge that we have also set ourselves in this Parliament by the Group of Joints for the Yes: to make this gap, this difference between macroeconomic figures and what we say and live in the social services of the municipalities, darken. It's to say that we're going beyond inequalities, it's to say that we're strengthening the pillars, as we say before, of welfare. Help? Yes, we do. And that was the second question that we would have to raise around these assumptions, whether or not they help the middle classes of this country. And, of course, we have to say yes. First, because they help to consolidate this economic improvement, and that means, obviously, wealth and jobs, the best way to help the middle classes of this country, but also because it lays down the reinforcement of the tools that use these families from a social point of view. And helping the lower and middle classes of this country has to do with talking about spending, certainly. But you also have to talk about entrances. And it's true, on the other hand, and it was said this morning, that these assumptions... in fact, had already been said and ensured by the vice president, that they would not contain a proposal for fiscal policy. Because, obviously, when we talk about admissions we have to talk about fiscal policy. But it's no less certain that we, together for the Yes, are forced by an electoral program that says that there will be a reduction, a better, of some taxes on the middle classes and lowers of this country. And it is no less true that this was a compromise that we had acquired with the CUP Group and that we had acquired in this Parliament. A compromise to talk, effectively, about fiscal structure; a compromise that, obviously, after this debate we cannot materialise. We can't talk about fiscal policy anymore, we can't talk about spending, we can't talk about the social policies that this expenditure envisaged. Are they assumptions, as the third element of the analysis of the accounts, that bring us closer to the national transition? Are they assumptions that lead the country to the absolutation of a state close to and from the republic? And we said that the answer was obviously yes, that radically yes, because they are assumptions that, among others, for example, include resources for the Catalonia Tax Agency, which is essential, not only to collect all the taxes generated by the citizens of Catalonia, but also to be able to fight, for example, against tax fraud. Therefore, those who claim to fight the tax fraud are committing an act of inconsistency opposing that it is possible to strengthen the Tax Agency of Catalonia. According to an element that reinforces this idea that these assumptions are assumptions of national transition: foreign policy is strengthened. This morning, there was a bit of a mockery of foreign policy. So, well, just take the export data and the foreign investments to Catalonia and compare them with the foreign investment. And man, with no will and no politics, he'll see that he's cheated on what's got to do with all the investment we're doing in foreign policy. So, well, we reinforce it; we also strengthen foreign policy with these assumptions. And we also reinforce the process by which we have committed ourselves: we complete the full route, we complete the 9-N declaration. And we would also like some of Montoro's presuppositions; Montoro's libres and any Spanish minister of Hisenda. But what's more of Montoro's presuppositions? The ones we are debating today or the extension of 2015? What brings us further away from the arbitrary and unjust guardianship of the Ministry of Hisenda, of the ministers of Hisenda to return? The assumptions that were presented today by the government or the presuppositional extension? You're obvious. I ended – I ended – with the beginning, as I started with the end. You said no to the assumption. They can kill it, they can see how it is planted, but today they say 'no' to the assumptions. I say no to EUR 874 million for social investment. All these groups... – and now I'm talking especially to those with whom we share social sensitivities – all those groups, like Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the PSC, that they are already laughing, because I suppose they understand what I'm going to say, that after the commissions, yes, they also ask for expanded assumptions, ask for reverse, ask for government actions, from today, before they do-it think they're voting today. [[Greetings.]] And they think that they are effectively preventing us from investing €874 million in social policies. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's his responsibility. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] They said no to the assumptions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.20.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.21.0	...and they say it the worst way, aborting them in the debate to the totality. And now a message to the company of the CUP: do it yourself – do it yourself. [[Widow's remorse.]] They are tired of saying that this Parliament cannot coerce a democratic debate. So, what are they doing today? What are they doing today? They are currently coercing the debate of certain assumptions with which there was a compromise to work on them in the way of the papers, but this cannot be – this cannot be – because you are now limiting... not limiting, eliminating the parliamentary debate from these assumptions. I understand that responsibility weighs – responsibility weighs – and is not comfortable and sometimes creates problems, but responsibility...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.22.0	Mr. Torrent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.23.0	I'm done, 20 seconds...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.24.0	It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.25.0	...political responsibility, such as sovereignty, is exercised, and exercised without. Responsibility is exercised without per. And his responsibility will be to explain why they do not collect social assumptions, the more social and the more sovereign they will have to face this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.26.0	To respond to the interventions of the parliamentary groups, Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.27.0	Good afternoon to everyone; thank you, Madam President. Councillors and Councillors of the Government, Members of Parliament and the public who follow us live and through all possible versions of media, I use my reply, basically, in general terms, which seems to me to be useful with reference to the interventions of the group group group and, perhaps, with some examples that help to illustrate them and make them easier to understand, and in any case, that they are demonstrable of our position. I start... – beyond some generic considerations of some group – I start with some reflections around the first of the interventions, in this case, of the Citizens' Group, when I said that the lack of consensus is the result of independence. It must be because of this that the People's Party, Citizens and the PSOE have been unable to agree in this past legislature, which has certainly been short, we do not know what the rest of the legislature will be like, but this past, in the case of the Spanish Congress, has been very short. Maybe because they're independent parties and, if they are, surely, they're all the legitimacy of the world, because it means they're Spanish independents, and it's pretty normal to be like that, huh? The same way we are related to our country. You were trying, I understand, to correct me around the positive liquidation of the years 2008 and 2009. Let's understand: all the beasts are calculated downwards by the PP government, systematically, every year, I repeat, without any mania. So I'm going back to saying exactly what I'm saying: all the years of the PP government the beasts have been calculated systematically at the bottom, without exception. And if – and if – on the part of the PSOE government, the year 2008 and the year 2009 were calculated at the height it was not to do us any favor – because, in fact, all the joint administration, those moneys of more than those beasts, well that we are returning them –, but they were calculated at the height, precisely, to justify a deficit, at that moment important, because they faced the entry of the crisis and sought solutions that, certainly, did not end up working, but they wanted to take that risk, that deficit, etcetera, and, therefore, they calculated the entrances very high in order to justify the deficit that they were generating and that, if not, of another gang, they could not justify it in any way. So, listen, what I said is clear, it's clear, and, anyway, I myself, if you allow me, in my experience as mayor, because we found ourselves returning to 2011 and 2012 or demanding, on the part of the Spanish government, the return of those positive beasts of 2008 and 2009, poorly calculated. Therefore, we are perfectly conscious. You also make a reference to the fact that they want to spend more on schools and hospitals; we, too. And in fact, that's why we spend 873 million more on these social policies. Yes, it is clear, in general, that all the groups say: "Listen, you have to reduce the deficit, well, very small – very small – the deficit, and the need to cut it down very, very, and, if it can be, very quickly. Above all, do not support the fiscal pressure in any way; yes, I do spend much more. And all at the time, I'm sorry, but it can't be. Impossible. And it's not a question that the government is independent, that it's not, that it's the government of Catalonia or that it's not; it's simply that it's impossible to do it instead of the world. It's here. It is impossible, at the same time, to do all these things at once. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Go on, there is no previous one, that I know, on the part of a government of the party, of Ciutadans, no one, that has had a percentage of social expenditure of 73,6_per_cent nor an increment of 78,5_per_cent in social parties of the presuppositional increment, no one. If there is, listen, please listen to him. He said that they would vote against the assumptions because they are against the 12_millions destined for the Tax Agency and the money destined for the deployment of foreign policy and some..., one part, I understand, of the resources put to the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. All folded in what amount? 60, 70, 80 million? And for 60, 70, or 80 million that you haven't just agreed to, we'll go over the edge of 1,100 million more? He told us that « more Europe. Listen, it's very legitimate, it would just be missing, and we obviously welcome Europeanism to a party that was presented to the European elections of the hand of Libertas and, therefore, of the extreme right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But, listen, we don't need a lesson in Europeanism. [[some applause]] Why, in fact, of Europeanists, of us..., listen, it's a fact, isn't it? If it's not true – if it's not true – you'll correct it, and if it's true, then it's true, it's already there. [[Rialles.]] It's all right. Each is presented with whomever you fly. [[Widow's remorse.]] In this case, there have been..., and it seems to me that there are enough witnesses and the Chamber is very clear in this sense– and the Chamber is very clear... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Listen, it's not a dialect, which, if they want to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.28.0	Please, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.29.0	If they want to have all the debates they want face to face...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.30.0	Respect the word tower.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.31.0	... in the format you want, but this is a parliamentary debate and it would be good if your attitude was as respectful as mys has always been – always. Therefore, Europeanism, of everything – of everything, of everything. In fact, which more than we have always defended a single monetary policy and which precisely to sustain it we need a single threesome, and which to sustain a single threesome we need a fiscal system, if not only, with important elements that make it common to the joint economies and the joint states that conform to the European Union. Therefore, this conviction of everything, absolute, total..., in fact, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs of this Government is the secretary general of a European political formation, and many of us have experience, we have been Members of the European Parliament, etc. So, listen, totally agree that we need more Europe and much more. You were asking for more work. Totally fine. Actually, if there's anyone who doesn't want it anymore, he'll let us know, let's just say it, huh? Therefore, the question is: how many resources are we putting in these assumptions of more in employment policies? So, almost 100: 98_million euros more in employment policies. You said: "Not one euro to get back the extra pay from you will work. It's not true, we've explained it sometimes and it's always a pleasure to have the opportunity to explain it again. In fact, there is an expansion of the Contingency Fund, precisely, to face a game that at these times in absolute terms does not know exactly what it will be, because we are in a negotiation process of these three exercises for which the extra pay of the employees is returned. So, yes, it is. Then you said to us: "What you have to do is reduce administrations, levels of administration. Miri, there's one we'd like to suppress honestly, which is that of the Spanish State. [[Some applause.]] Second – second, second – you, as you left at that time, were not yet there, but the sisena I approved for this Parliament, if I am not mistaken, was a law which I demanded was the suppression of the parliaments. And now I'm gonna put them all to the test, see if anyone can help me. Do you know why that sisena read that..., approved in this Parliament in the year 80, the sisena read the history of the Parliament recovered... – because, in fact, the Parliament came from much farther away – do you know why that sisena read that it called for the suppression of the deputies was not able to apply? Who's gonna stop him? [[Pause.]] Yes, the Constitutional Court. [[Widow's remorse.]] So, listen, there are traditions coming from the moon. I understand that some people are good at keeping them, and that is why traditionalism has had a certain success, but others that we might be able to renew. You said to us, too, and Mr. Millo told us, with an ever more thorough mind, to say it in a way, you said to us: "It is all that you say there is a better economy, all this is the fruit of the international context. So, listen, if all this is the result of the international context, how do we grow more than double the euro area average? And then someone said: "No, well, it is the result of the international context, but of the many merits that the People's Party government accumulates. So, listen, then explain why we're growing much more than most of the middle of the state. Therefore, it will not all be the result of the international context, something will tend to see this society and it will tend to see this economy, and it will tend to see institutions, and there will be..., no? Why, if not, how does the difference explain it? If the conditions are the same for everyone, the differential behavior must have some explanation. And in this explanation, sense of doubt, the role of the institutions, listened to, may be very modest and perhaps we should be especially modest, and if you say so in this sense, I especially appreciate it, and so now even know I would be hard to recreate myself overly, but some – some – paper have these institutions. [[Widow's remorse.]] The same way...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.32.0	Please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.33.0	Okay, you think it's too small.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.34.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.35.0	But we've already accepted that someone does. I'm glad, because you know that... you know that I'm always very willing to look for the points that we have in common, all folds, huh? So, listen, as long as you recognize me, I'm right, I value it very much. And tell us, too, to improve human capital. Totally fine. I, it seems to me..., if anyone thinks that what we have to do is stuff it, it will also let us know, and it will surely generate a certain surprise in the room and between the audience. For this 500_million, or almost 500_million, put in the university package, innovation, research, etc.; for this reason the resources devoted to training themes; for this reason the creation of these integrated search centers that they seek is a growing relationship between our search centers and our productive economy. And, if not, how would it be understood that among the programmes financed for the ECR, the European Research Council, we have at these moments..., behind Switzerland and Holland, we follow the third country of Europe – I refer to Catalonia – in absolute volume of aid. So, listen, we're doing something good here. And precisely what these assumptions want is to raise even more resources. The compañeros... in this case, Congresswoman Alicia Romero, an ugly reference – Joan Coscubiela also did this – who seems to be short of the 0.7_per_cent deficit relief, and say: « And the fem cost. Okay. I'm glad they seem insufficient, and I'm very happy that we're looking at each other, so let's just say, huh? And so am I. Now, once we've done a lot of things – we've already told ourselves many times, that we've done it on this issue – the result is: listen, do we have the resources or don't we have them? And that's it. Why can emotional accompaniment be very important, but apart from emotional accompaniment, anything else? – anything else? The money, the resources, can we mobilize them, yes or no? And can we mobilize them without generating false expectations that we can't complete later? And the answer is: badly, no – badly, no. And unfortunately, it does not seem to us that at this time we should be able to mobilize it and simultaneously reiterate that the compromise at the time of facing the challenge of disability and debt is absolutely important. It's all right. Hard? Yeah. Too hard? A lot. But it's important. Precisely because of the fact that the intergenerational debt that we leave behind is very difficult to absorb, and that we are making decisions for people, for people, for people, for people who are unfortunately not in a position to make decisions at these times, but who will not have to assume the consequences and will have to pay for them. And in this sense, accept the example, that it may seem a little better or a little worse, but it is an example of extreme clarity. There are European economies, there are European states that at these times are issuing debt to a hundred years – to a hundred years – and that, therefore, it is equivalent to saying that the grandchildren of some of the Members of this House will be paying for the decisions that have been taken at a much earlier time. Ostres, it's not a trivial fact. I already know that it is not a trivial fact either, and that is why we repeat it insistently, that we must use these margins that we have in the field of disability, not as a thing... The Lord Millo said: "This, which is denied, you have converted it into a positive one. It's just that it's neither negative nor positive, depending on the use that we actually do, but in very patient situations it's obvious that we don't have to try to make an uncanny use on the contrary, which is to think it's irrelevant. And here, a reflection for the groups' conjunction. It's settled that these assumptions are probably not allowed to move and are not debated. And they don't argue because some think they're overly independent, breakers, breakers of everything, and some think that maybe they're not enough, independent and breakers and breakers. And some will vote against them or vote against the process because they think they are too social, and others, because they are too small; some because they think we should push all the taxes we have and to have, and some because they think we should exactly do the opposite and lower them all and not leave it as it is. Listen, God save us that you had to agree. That I agree that it seems that it is very difficult, here and at many other places, I already understand, but, go on, I don't want to imagine what would happen if you were to agree with the premises that are required at these times to these assumptions and to this government, that they are totally contradictory to each other. Alícia Romero told us..., because this was a dissertation that was associated with Alicia's intervention, for one band she said to us: "Deficit is very little and..., but for the other I have interpreted that it denied us because the debt continues to grow. Or one thing or another. Because, of course, if we need to make the debt more weak, of course, it will grow more, and if we don't want the debt to grow, we need to make a little less, because, in fact, the debt is the result of the accumulated deficits. And that's it. They also say to us: "We would like the social presupposition to be in absolute terms like 2010– and also to be told by the company Joan Coscubiela. Yes – yes, yes. And me, too. And if by 2010 they were a little bit more, too – too. And it's likely that if you asked everyone, and we only had to decide that and more, everyone, there would be a certain consensus. Listen, look, not like 2010's, 2010's, and, look, a 10-per-cent plus. Yeah? Now, the question is, are we like 2010? 2010: how many years of crisis and how many years are we wearing now? In 2010, what are we managing, what are we managing now? 2010, where were we coming from and where are we now? It's not comparable – it's not comparable. I already understand that all of us would like a lot of things, but I accept that economic data, among them, are not, unreasonably, winged, that they are all interdependent, that any one decided to take on the deficit has consequences on the debt. You're inevitable. I'm so sorry. But that's it, and as much as it weighs from an emotional point of view, but anyway the reality is this, let's just say it. Later, he also made a series of reflections. For example, he said: « Zero_euros for schools in Bressol. It's not true, there's a game, I explained it, in the presupposition. You said to us: "And reverse the reversal. Depends on how you look at her. Clearly, if you tell me: "Renew the investment in structured finance. Yes, but it is that the structured finances, which existed until the past year, until the assumption of the past year, are those that are choking our present abilities. It is that the interests we pay for those structured financings limit our current ability to devote these resources to other areas. Clearly, and someone else would say, "They should never have done it. All right, if we hadn't done it before, we wouldn't have had the ability to stretch the economy. Therefore, they say to us: "Yes, you are opening up the economy, making more inversion, but above all people are not indebted. It can't be another time. And, therefore, it seemed to us that responsibility led us to invest in terms of the possibilities we have, and, therefore, not to make any more commitments about the capacity we have, because these commitments we would take over, and that at other times we have assumed and that perhaps at other times it was good for us to assume, now they are simply very difficult to assume for the costs they represent. And I insist on explaining again what we have explained on many occasions. There are no economic decisions, it's only investment that is good or bad; it's about the costs of this investment; it's about what global levels of investment we have; it's about who the priorities are in the social sphere; it's about many things. We can't take every single one of these side data and say, "No, no, it's that we want a social expense like 2010. Now, that's right, the debt like the one of 2006. Deficit? Like the one from 1981. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No, it doesn't work that way – it doesn't work that way. He said to us: "No, resources for minimum income... I return to explain. There are 35.5 million in benefits, 34.5 million in insertion, minimum income; therefore, the package is just double, let's say, eh? They're two different parties. After that, 2,000_million less respects the settlement. Well, that was more generic, huh? Yeah, another time. Listen to one thing: liquidated with liquidated, assumed with assumed; no presuppositions are compared with liquidated, presuppositions are compared with presuppositions and liquidated with liquidated. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I deixi'm, and I'll see...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.36.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.37.0	I hope to convince them. If I don't get it, listen, I'm sure it'll be partly because I don't explain myself very well. If last year there were those 2,200_million more, it was because they were spending years before they were from last year. It's not like we spent 1,700 million more in salvation last year, because if we spent them, you would have noticed. What do they think goes unnoticed, 1,700 million more in the matter of salvation? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] These are expenses arising from previous years, some of which, for example, are expenses linked to barrel law, compromises and never presupposed for the councillor of any party here. [[Greetings.]] And, therefore, if they're resources... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.38.0	Please, respect the word tower.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.39.0	I'm glad you're getting excited about my interventions, let's just say, and that... Mrs. Esperanza García even makes gestures that I interpret as a big celebration. [[Rialles.]] Okay. I'm celebrating a lot, let's just say. But, listen, it's out-of-pocket expenses. Now you can celebrate it, a lot of you can laugh at it, you can applaud it, or no, but it's out of date, it's not over in 2015. It's a bit of a vulguin hycom. It's here. Therefore, they laugh, applaud, gesticulin, but they are expensed from previous exercises, not from the past year. So, you're not comparing me to the liquidation level of the year passed with the assumptions of this year, for many reasons. First, because there is no comparison of liquidation with assumptions, Mr Coscubiela. And, second, why if they're expensed from previous exercises, what do you see this comparison? It's like when the companies... - now, backwards, let's say it, huh? I'm moving away from the microphone because Mr. Coscubiela always deserves closer attention, let's just say, huh? ; the other way around, now the other way around. Mr. Millo gives us up for the defect deviations from last year. The same: some of these deviations are one-off from previous exercises, from public-private investments that are not recurrent, and therefore do not put them here as if they were a recurring expenditure data; just like you, do not quote these 2,200_millions, because it is not true, because they are not from the previous exercise, they are outcrops from other exercises. All right. Keep going. And at the same time I don't want to be people, because the congratulations have not been very common or generous on their part, at least they haven't seemed to me, maybe you think that even they have been excessive, let's say that several groups have recognized, explained, let's say, that they are strict assumptions [[Funnel veils]] That they're supposed to have no fictitious tickets and that's why... now he's telling me. No, it's that your generosity lasts..., lasts a lot of time, Mr. Coscubiela. [[Rialles.]] Before, a while ago, I congratulated myself more than not now. Listen to one thing, these assumptions actually try to be rigorous, try to ensure that all entry parties are effectively parties that can be implemented; they avoid parties that are subject to political negotiation, because it seems to us that in these parties we have no guarantees that we can then serve them and at this point it seems to us that it is important. I don't want to prejudge what will happen in the future, or what we'll do all the folds the day we find ourselves in need of it, and maybe one day you'll find yourself in this or any other institution; so, no, I don't want to make a general judgment. But at these times when we have the opportunity to do so, it seems to me that it is important to do so so so as not to generate expectations that are not achievable and that, therefore, who should pay for it is the entities that do, for example, a social work and that are subject to a subsidy and that are the last to be paid, precisely because there is a constitutional reform driven by two groups present here, in this case the Socialist Group and the PP Group, which put in place, and last, the subsidies that are destined for the entities that do these social functions; and together, certainly. Therefore, precisely – precisely – in order not to generate expectations that after they are not able to complete, we try – we try – yes, to bring this rigour to it. And that rigor seems to us to be an accurate show of courage, and it's an exhibition of ambition, because it would be a lot easier to make it look like we'd have tickets that we wouldn't have – it would be a lot easier. And you would say, "See, how many more tickets? And they may be happy, and they may congratulate us, because today they deny us because they may find that they are not enough; but if they do, even though this is worth their applause on today's day... it is not worth it that there are entities and citizens that generate expectations that can not be fulfilled, it is not worth it. Mr. Coscubiela – maybe now I'm going to get a little soft again, and now I'm not going to say that he congratulated us on something, but I'm still getting close to it – he also told us that it's not easy to make assumptions in this context. That's right, it's not easy. And if you found yourself, I'd do the same recognizance as at least, let's just say it. He tells us they're continuous. Listen, we could go into a debate about whether they're a little continuous or a little continuous, but in any case the extension is sure – sure – much more continuous, sure. And what's going to happen here today is probably that we're going to go on for a long time; so, if the measure of quality is what you're going to do, we're going to go through the debate, because if we don't go through it, the extension is much more continuous. [[Some applause.]] Actually, it's so continuous... [[Pause.]] Actually, it's so continuous, it's identical. [[relays]] ; it's no longer a matter of adverbial discussion – no, no, a little, two little or three – no, no, it's identical. You gave us away... Well, then, next to that, you congratulated us on some aspects, then, you told me – I don't know if I interpreted it well, but I pointed it out, huh? – I guess you've come to say – if you're not, I'll straighten it out right away, huh? – that I lied, cheated and threatened. Jo? Did I threaten any of you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Whoa, whoa, whoa. Yeah, yeah. Listen to one thing, look – I already know that this may not interest people; and maybe you do, but the rest of the room won't, but I can't be –: I, before I'm a congressman and I'm here, I've been a professor at the university, or I've earned my life explaining things in communication media. I have nothing more – nothing more – than my credibility. Therefore, I assure you that I never lie – never. [[Some applause.]] And then... what I hope is clear, the concept is never clear, huh? No, no, no, it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... Then I understood that I was reneged, for example, on the subject of tax benefits. You think a lot of this stuff is deductions to the logger. Then, the PP has... – all of us intervene very long and blunt, let's say, eh? – the PP told us about this macroeconomic context, etc. I understand I've already answered this question before. He recognized the issue of the importance of the deficit. In a way, he came to say: "To see if you, of the Government of Catalonia, understand from time to time that the deficit is important. Listen, the deficit champions in the European economies are you, huh? The government that makes the whole of the European Union more difficult is you. So, listen, I always appreciate all the lessons because I always think, and I'm convinced, and now it's been that way, too, that I learn from all the interventions and from everyone that I'm headed for, sure I am, but this lesson... And at the same time, I say the same thing again, I recognize it and I want to claim it here that it is clearly not an irrelevant fact and that we must give it all the importance it deserves, that it is a lot, and from the other, I also recognize the enormous difficulty in which many economies are found and the need to make use of this instrument, precisely, to alleviate this disease and to give oxygen to economic activity and growth. And, then, allow me, around this, a reflection that I think is very important: fixed 'that the key to this is comparison..., or one of the possible keys to this is the comparison between the behavior of the deficit, the path of the deficit, and the behavior of the economy. And precisely if any aspect is good, in this sense, the Catalan economy – in this sense that you said, huh? , has many others – in this sense that you said, it is precisely the past year that created a 3.4, with a deficit that, uncounted the one-off that you do not want to decount, was at 1.95. Therefore, the difference, in real terms of growth, is very important, precisely the opposite of that which unfortunately..., and I am not happy in absolute, because I would like it to be just the opposite of the combination of the economies around us, and if it can be the combination of the world economies, the case of the government that you manage was exactly the opposite: the rate of growth of the deficit was monstrously faster than the rate of growth of GDP. Therefore, in real terms, you accept that you have been placed in a real growth negation with respect to the deficit that you generate. You say that the 1,100_millions are destined for conflict, the 1,100_millions more... I don't think I was wrong when I listened to it, huh? I don't think I've been wrong, and if not, listen, we'll go over it and that's why there are acts, fortunately, and communication media, which I'm sure will help us to contrast it. No, they are 1,100_million more laid to the service of the economy and society; 873 more laid to the service of salvation, of teaching, of social services, and the rest laid to the service of the growth of our economy, in matters of agriculture, of industry, thanks to... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, I know it's easier to make it irony and pussy, but, "hostile, it's not an object to make it irony and pussy, because we play a lot, because everybody plays a lot. And, therefore, when you intervened I could also make irony and conyeta, because, little or much – less than you, sure – I too would be doing, but I don't do it. And, therefore, I think it would be good for you not to fessin' – I do. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, it goes for you too, Mr. Coscubala, too. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, when you talk, no. When you talked I was quiet, you can't say the same thing right now. Then he said that we were the thirty-one community on social expense and that we had spent the expense of... [[Funnel veils]] I'm sorry, Mr. Millo told us. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, but listen, Mr. Millor, if we spend more of our assumptions on social policies than anyone else, and even if the whole per capita is lower, where is the problem? Where's the problem? And it's not that we say it, it's that the studies of the foundation of Bilbao Vizcaya, it's that everyone says it, the problem is in a brutal underdottation of our society, of our institutions and of our economy. All of it. And in this room, except for you, everybody says so. And if the issue of disability is important – that is, and it is very, very – and, listen, you and I, in this..., you deny me, but, listen, who has the threat of a fine of 2,000_million euros, oysters, it is the Spanish government and – I insist – I do not say it with any joy – with no joy – because it is a problem for everyone. And who is required to retaliate the assumptions approved in 2015 for 2016 is the Spanish government, and not with small amounts, perhaps with 8,000_million euros. And the same is asked to respect the assumptions of the 17th. And, therefore, it is not a question of putting the word to one another's eyes, etc.; no, because evils are bad generalised – generalized. And we're all aware that 8,000 million plus 2,000, and if we don't get these 2,000, much better, but 8,000 million is a lot of money. And if for the year that goes exactly the same and the set of these shortcuts has to be applied to an exercise, because in this one they are working, "hosty, everyone– everyone– has to make it seem like it's an extremely difficult situation. And, therefore, this storm, which I already know is, perhaps, difficult to overcome, to put the word to one another's eyes and to make yourself and yours more and more...; the question is very hard – very hard. And in this sense too, Mr. Millo, I was tempted to begin the answer that addressed you, explaining to you, precisely, an African fault. An African fault that says there was a scorpion at the edge of a river that wanted to cross and cried out to a grain, and said to him, "Granota, what will you help me to cross the river? And then the grain said to him, "No, because you are a scorpion, and you will probably bite me. And the scorpion said to him, "No, no, because we'd have both of us now. And for that reason, I won't. And the grain accepted. Maybe there was no other remodeling; maybe it's not that accepted, maybe they forced it. Maybe the scorpion forced her to do it – we don't know this detail of the story, we can get him to suspect. And, then, the scorpion stuck to the grain slom, and the grain crossed the river, and when they were in the middle of the river, the scorpion bit it. And the unbelieving grain said, "But what have you done, scorpion? And the scorpion said to him, "Oh! It's my nature. And that scorpio was the PP government. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] Yeah, yeah. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, yeah. No, no, no...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.40.0	Please, please, respect the word tower, huh? Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.41.0	Mr. García Albiol – Mr. García Albiol –, no, no, no... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] No, Mr. García Albiol, I am waiting a moment – a moment –, don't help him, the others; calm down. Mr. García Albiol, listen, the ability... – well, in fact, went to Mr. Millo, but how you made very prominent gestures... –, listen, the debt ability of the Spanish economy – and, this, of course, we would have to agree around this, I know that sometimes it costs more than it would touch – it is a force in the ability to grow GDP, because it is the GDP that supports the debt ability. Listen, recognize 'that part of this growth is obviously growth in catal GDP, because of the argument we give in the morning, and precisely because of that, what they should do is not strangle the growth of this economy and, sadly, you and others, for a long time, have done so and done so far beyond what was convenient and far beyond their real possibilities, let's say, right? And, so, let's pay for it all, unfortunately, the consequences. Finally, in this case, to the company of the CUP – and I am also addressing it with this terminology of « companies because I have done it with everyone, it seems to me –, I can hear the discrepancies, obviously, let's say it, and we have them with all the groups and that, perhaps, we would want a little bit more here, a little more there, a little less here or a little less there. But the question is, are these assumptions much better? The answer is, no doubt, yes – no doubt, yes. Conversations – and other groups have not rectified us – with the CUP have not had many, if I do not misinterpret it, and if so, I would also rectify it, as I have undertaken to do with the rest of the groups, you have explained that up to seven rounds of meetings on this issue. We haven't done many. When we reminded them that this was going to go into government, that it would go into government and that it would go into parliamentary proceedings, they told us that they preferred to talk about it in parliamentary proceedings. So, listen, the question is, are they better? Objectively, yes, obviously, yes and, therefore, it seems to me that it is worth – it seems to me that it is worth – accepting its processing. It seems to me that it is worth discussing them and perhaps discussing them very much, and perhaps discussing them very much at heart, but in any case, it seems to us that it is worth discussing them in any of the areas, in any of them, in expenses or in more tickets. It is not to lose a great opportunity and the costs are very high – very high – because it has costs not only on the issue of assumptions, which in itself is very important, because it is clearly a very important law in the action of any government, but also between other things, because it understands – and if it is not so, sure that they will correct me – that you, for example, voted for the Action Plan of government and this Action Plan of government was linked to certain assumptions, because, if not, it is very difficult to pull out a plan of government if you do not have the assumptions necessary to pull it out and, therefore, understand that from our position it is probably not only very difficult to understand that it is very difficult, but it is not very difficult to understand it. And what we would like is that precisely the commitments that we have are guaranteed and that we draw forward. And this is a reflection for everyone on whom, too, like everyone else, can be more or less agreeable, but, listen, all of you, huh? Tell us, and everyone who listens to us. We have a compromise, a compromise that is the compromise of the result of the elections of 27 September and the formation of a majority parliament that we understand was and should be compromised with independence. The compromise of a project, of a process of bringing our country to the door of giving it the possibility of being a new independent country, of having the possibility of being a new republic; until the doors of constituent elections, this is our compromise. Of this compromise, many of us, perhaps also many of you, perhaps the totality of you, may never resign. I'm sure I'll never resign, and I'm convinced that many of us will never resign. It is not, therefore, a question of principles, only very important that the principles follow, that they are, and very, and at all. And it's not just a question of principles because I understand that we all agree on principles. It is also a question of how it is possible that day-to-day is compatible, coherent and consistent with these objectives, and that day-to-day there may be many discrepancies, but it is also true that it is much better to have these resources precisely to guarantee the social cohesion of our country. Precisely why about this social cohesion, about the conviction that in this social cohesion we find the legitimacy of all the projects that we represent, that we are connected, some of us from many years ago, maybe all of our lives, in this project, and that where we legitimately believe people and that in each of our gestures we esteem people, and that we seek that people are better, and that it is obvious that we can have discrepancies about what exactly is the scenario that ensures that people are better in the future, but it is also clear that there are many decisions that are peremptory and that are to be taken in the present, and that they are urgent in the present, and that I do not believe that people are better in the future, but that there are also many decisions that are not ideal, that I am not at all wise. Because ideals are always legitimate and justified in the decisions we make every day. And I..., let me finish with a Kantian reflection, let's just say. Deia Kant in the Criticism of practical reason... The Criticism of practical reason, against which the title of the book may lead us to think, is not a reflection on the natural sciences, but rather a reflection on morals, while, in change, the Criticism of pure reason is a reflection on the sciences. The Criticism of practical reason, a reflection on morality, told me some phrase that seems to me to be always timely, I think today too: « Let us behave – let us behave – « all folds as if each of our daily actions had to serve as a universal norm for the rest of humanity. I assure you that, even though some of you may not believe it or want to believe it or prefer to see it not believe it, I have always acted that way and I will always act that way. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.42.0	Thank you very much, Vice-President. Thank you very much. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Now we're gonna open a replica turn. The vice president has been talking about forty-six minutes, so we will give eight minutes to each group; six by eight, forty-night, okay? We will start with the majority opposition group, which is Ciutadans, and therefore, has the word Mr. Antonio Espinosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.43.0	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Mr Junqueras, for it is true that the national parties have failed, but it is no less true that you have failed today. And it's not comparable– and it's not comparable– because you yourself haven't clarified it, you... The reasons for the non-agreement of state or national parties are some and the reasons for the non-agreement here are others, including independence; if you said it yesterday or before yesterday, you said: "I don't want to deal with anyone other than the independenceists of the CUP. So, to mean that, well, there's no pact there either, yes, of course, but the reasons are different and you should know it. Well, you know that. He goes on to say that the beasts, the liquidations are done « down, but you yourself in your argument say that in 2008 and 2009 they were calculated up, you have said it textually as follows: « The revenues were calculated up. Then, of course, it's contradicting itself, if it's in the drawer, if it's in the first of logic, come on, it's that there's no other, isn't there? We regret that we maintain that it is possible to increase social spending without raising taxes, well, and that there is no way that if taxes are not raised, social spending can be increased, because it is not true. Look, if you want, we'll meet later and I'll tell you how many discounts and bonuses there are that could be removed and that's why we'll expand the bases, the tax bases, you know? And then I can also tell you that, if the Catalan tax agency really collaborates with the Spanish tax agency and with the agency..., we will recover, after the..., if we also make a good investment there, a lot of tax fraud. We are told by those who understand that for each euro invested, nine can even be recovered; if we have room to recover, then, then, then, then, for social policies. Well, and then there is a theme, if we improve employment, if we improve the economy, I have no doubt that we also get better wages, our companies will pay more corporate taxes and, therefore, we will also collect more. We will not have had to raise taxes and, however, we will get more collection. You said to us: "Look, man, it's that in the field of social policies... If we have already recognized that there is a certain advance, but it is that when it takes so many years to cut, because the truth is that it can be no less than seeing as certainly pyrrhic the advance that it proposes to us on this subject, eh? Therefore, we recognize that there is an advance, but, man, we do not sell it to us as a great success. It is true that our political project and that of you is therefore antagonistic; antagonistic on many issues; mainly on the perimeter, as I told you, on the perimeter of the political community, on the perimeter of solidarity and distributive justice. And of course, that's got a lot to do with it, it's got a lot to do with it, you know? – it has a lot of jundia –; it has a lot of jundia to defend the interests of more people – more people – and not less; it has an effect of a certain selfishness, yours, I think, isn't it? But, look, he was saying to us: "What you pretend to save is little. Look, on the outside 80_million are eight times what the Generalitat came in for the tax on empty floors to buy housing intended for social rent. Well, let's see, we have it clear, 80 million social policies, not a euro for foreign policy, not for foreign policy. [[applause]] ..., not for foreign policy that favours enterprise growth, but for foreign policy to promote independence. Look, he was saying to us: "Man, it's... There's another topic, which you were saying to us a moment ago: "It's that I don't cheat. Man, well, I don't know if you cheat or make fallacious claims, call him whatever you want, but the truth is that you in supporting industry have diminished resources. I mean, no, yeah, man, yeah, if you want me to show you the show, I can show you the show, huh? The specific programme which says 'Industry support and the decrease of approximately 11_per_cent'. Credit to self-employed people is decreasing, they will already explain to me how this is combined with job creation. And as I was saying to you this morning, you're reducing credit to companies, but this morning I haven't told you something that I'm going to tell you now: it turns out that you also invest 300_million less in railway infrastructure, which is curious. Well, anyway, let's keep going, surely that's also contributing to progress. Well, let's see, Mr. Junqueras, correcting is wise. If you do not intend to rectify it is that of wise people it seems to me that you have little, sincerely, it is so, I cannot express it in any other way. Look, the 27-S showed that your political project didn't have the social majority, you got involved in moving forward, taking the adventure forward and looking for complicitys, strange comrades in the UPCs so you could keep saying that the project had a parliamentary majority. It's been days since we've known that that majority is fictitious, that it doesn't exist, but today I think there's been the blast of that majority, come on. If you still think that there is a parliamentary majority here, then, finally, that, now... that's you, isn't it? And his desire to put bandages on his eyes. But, look, if anything is making it clear, therefore, this parliamentary session is that the parliamentary agreement has jumped through the air; that they do not have a social majority, and that has already been shown in the ballot box on 27-S; that they do not have a parliamentary majority, and that is proving today. Then, in the face of this situation, a possibility of reflection is really open, I invite you to reflect, damn it, do not continue to be involved, because, if not, I will end up having to call you "the person who is involved, you know, I will have to call you "Mr. Junqueras, the person who is involved. Do what, rectify, be smart and do not continue on a path of failures – do not continue on a path of failures – for which, basically, you alone will be responsible, even much more than the CUPs, you will be much more responsible than the CUPs. And, of course, there will be so many, so many injured, all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.44.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.45.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, president, councillors, deputies, deputies. Frankly, Vice President, I don't know much about what he came to say to us today in the reply, that's to say, I don't know much about what he came to do here today in his reply, because someone, man, we could all think that after the CUP no he would try to look for other supports. But it didn't seem to us that you're looking for support, but adhering; adhering to a premise that you might hear that you don't like us – you don't like us – because, as you say, "more and more here, less and less there. And, therefore, in any case, it would have been fine or it would have been good to negotiate it. They haven't called us; they haven't called us at any time. Because you've already said, in the media, and you've said it on various occasions, that you don't know, that at least you don't know because we don't share a full route. So I don't know much about what came to tell us here today, especially as opposed to what Mr. Torrent said, who came to ask us for support from these assumptions because it wouldn't be irresponsible. Listen to me, don't look at parliamentary groups that you haven't been in touch with – and, if you want, listen to me, I can pass on my phone – but you didn't want to talk to us because you weren't expecting us, because you weren't looking for our agreement. Therefore, it seems to me that it is too hypocritical to come here now to say at the last moment, at the last second, "they vote for the assumptions, when they do not want us and are not insecure. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes... you and Mr. Torrent, who represent, therefore, the group that supports the government, right? So, honestly, I'm telling you that I didn't finally hear your intervention: that you came to ask us and that you came to tell us. That's right, the wonders of the presupposition, which, as you can imagine, we don't share; some things, yes. You do a little bit of pussy with this, which..., I know hard: "Clearly, you agree with the deficit, emotionally... I don't know... Well, emotionally no, listen'm, we have already said: "Essultine, all our support when we go to Madrid to gather the proposals that are made from Catalonia. I don't know... do you think we need to get together with this? So, it's hard for me. We try not to be naive, among other things, because you know very well that the PSC has governed and governs many institutions in Catalonia and, therefore, you know the responsibility to have at the time of governing, and you know that it is difficult to make assumptions, and I have already told you this morning, I have said that there is a difficulty here that we, therefore, understand perfectly. Now, man, don't tell us naive, in the sense that we believe that for the part of the tickets there is margin – there is margin – to get more. What's going on is that you didn't want to... – because you didn't agree with Juntes for the Yes, and already, obviously, I don't talk about agreeing with the CUP anymore – you didn't want to stand up to it, you didn't want to stand up to the richest, you didn't want to ask for an effort from those who have the most, changing the estate or assets tax or analyzing the tax benefits and eliminating the lowest. They didn't want to do that. So, here's a margin. How much? 500, 800, 1,000? So, look, you're saying that 1,100_millions are a lot, so imagine'summing it 1,000 more. So we think you haven't made enough effort. We don't share it, that, we can't share it in any way. And I think you know that we're right about this when we ask for more effort, and you haven't done that. I understand that it is difficult to agree when certain aspects of fiscal policy within the same government are not ideologically shared; but, in any case, we must say so. And you talked about the tax fraud. And here I want to focus on a moment, because you say that the presuppositions are planting an increase in personnel at the Tax Agency of Catalonia. I honestly don't understand you sometimes, because a lot of time ago you voted in this Parliament, with Junts voting against the Yes, to present in two months a plan of struggle against the tax fraud. So, I didn't just hear it, especially considering that, more than you say, you don't. And, if we look at the latest data from the liquidation of the Tax Agency of Catalonia, each time we enter less for fighting the fraud. And now, it's true, we're bringing in people. See how many – see how many – because it costs us a lot to incorporate people. And I'll tell you another thing: the Lord Savior has announced, I don't know if mass in public, that they want to incorporate the management that the liquidating offices of the tax agency do. That's why we need resources. So good that the people we hire are not still doing the work that the liquidating offices do. We dedicate them to fighting the tax fraud and soon we will incorporate this work done by the liquidating offices. But it's probably much more urgent to fight the fraud. And we believe that you, beyond saying it, have not just shown in the premise this will and this intention. And I don't mean the job fraud anymore, which we have all the skills of – who passed us Zapatero who sometimes cost us to remember him, but he passed us – with resources, and we're not fighting against the job fraud. There are other autonomous communities that without competition and resources are doing so together with the State. So, man, here's the way to run, because there's a lot of precariousness and because obviously regularizing, not just taxing, but laboring, irregular contracts, so, leads to the fact that the Administration also has more tickets. So, on the ticket line, we believe that there was... that there is still a long way to go that you, therefore, have not gone back. And, therefore, a certain postureg, to us seems, some of the comments he has made about our position in relation to the presumption. Listeners, you said, "I don't tell lies and I don't like to tell lies. And, obviously, we haven't said at any time I'm telling you, but you've recognized here, now that you've come out, that they're not the most social assumptions, that so much good can go to the 2010 thrift, or the hardest, he said, after all. And then, I remember, you said you wouldn't approve of autonomous assumptions and we're already in thirds, and that, so, lead for you, right? Therefore, do not tell lies; but, listen to me, do not just fulfill many of your promises or many of the things that you explain to us. Look, honestly, to us what seemed to us today, here, this theatricalization what seemed to us is a string of cycles. A cycle of a full route that you planted after a misreading on September 27th. There is no parliamentary majority that you are talking about in order to move forward. And it's very clear, not just here today, with the vote on the premise, but it's very clear in many of the votes you're making in this Parliament. Honestly, we think we should rethink it. I know they won't wait for us, but they probably should rethink the full route, and also those travel companies that are making Catalonia unable to move forward. I sincerely, Mr Junqueras, would ask those with whom you were married, who are the UPC, not the rest of the parliamentary groups with whom you did not even want to talk about the assumptions. The person responsible for carrying the assumptions is you and the unresponsible for carrying them without guaranteeing us approval is also yours, not of the groups that are at the opposition and that do the work that touches us and, above all, do not take the phone if it does not get in. So let each one of us assume his or her responsibility; we will make our own. But, frankly, we say to them: "Think about your full road, about what the government is left with, about what will happen after this cycle that seems pale that we are watching here today, and, therefore, also, what future awaits you in this country, and above all what future awaits you to Catalans and Catalans with the situation that you have left them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.46.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.47.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice President, I finished my first intervention this morning saying that the government had to think about what's going on. And I told him not to do it now, because I understood that you are in a state of shock. And, in fact, the intervention of you and the intervention of Junts' spokesman for the Yes has come to confirm this. Keep sitting in a bowl, feeling like it, among other things, because coming out of the bowl is supposed to recognize what we've already told you: that you've built, as in the government, a full road that's in a sack and that you don't know how to get out. What's going on is that... well, I'm afraid that from now on what's going to happen is a very typical thing of pujolism, I've said it some time: less politics, more floral games. And today you started these floral games with your second intervention. Okay. Let's hope that June 26th, the results, that you give a little pause, reflect in cold..., and see if you are able to read what is happening at these times to the government and to Catalan politics. So I don't know if... well, bunny, bunny, no, you're ridiculous, huh? Yes, he does it with this grace that he has, but ridicule; and then he says, "You have proposed statements that some say one thing and others the counter, and all vote the same. Excuse me, that's what happens many times with the argument of assumptions and you have participated many times as an agent with that same paper. But what happens is that you obviously knew that there are different models of society with the assumptions that we put them up, and your responsibility was to look for votes to get the most common denominator. And he didn't look for them, he rejected them better. You have rejected me personally... and the president of our group, many times, the opportunity to speak. Finally, sometimes with a certain political preponderance, I've said it before. You thought you had it all tied up, and now it turns out you didn't. The person responsible for this is you. We don't blame ourselves, which we've offered two-hundred_ thousand times– and the Socialist Group has just told us, too, I've seen it – the opportunity to talk. Well, that's what we're up to. Then he says to us: "No, look, please agree with the PP. Look, no, no, thank you. In fact, who is in agreement with the PP in a normal way has been, all his life, the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia: labor reform, fiscal policy, that made it from Catalonia, even though voted in Madrid; the important issue of the Law of Presuppositional Stability, that we now pay for the consequences, voted for the party of the presidents, eh? And you say, "Oh, no, I'm from Esquerra." But it seems that when two go together a year one limps or grudges. Do you understand me? Because then it turns out that you see here and together for the Yes are voting in social policy with the PP constantly. We have been denied the popular legislative initiative of the reform of the educational law. They voted two days ago against the reform of the inheritance and donation tax. You, in social policy, have set up another axis of Catalan policy. And you'll know why, you put the statements and the policy does it Democratic Convergence, but we don't blame ourselves for this; it's your responsibility. And let me tell you, with total personal respect, but with a strong political criticism that I, if you tell me you've never lied, I believe me, right? Well, I don't know what you're seeing in your parliament, but... but if you haven't lied, then you'll tell him that, as an economic advisor, he's very undocumented. And I'm going to justify this: you just said to us, a while ago, that on the tax benefits... – you just threw them at us, as if... –, you said: "Mr. Coscubiela should know that the tax benefits most are for housing. So, no, no, one part, no. Miri, it's that you, Councillor of Economy, should know that of the 1,200_millions, 1,202_millions of tax benefits that depend on the regulations of the Generalitat, housing only in 26, and that the majority of these... – sorry, page 58 of the Tax Benefits Memory, if you want to look at it and, if not, the challenge to get out of here with the journalists to see it –, and that of the majority of the 1,202 tax benefits, 979 correspond to the tax of estates and donations. This one you didn't want to change. I'm sorry, in politics, I don't know what's worse, whether you're lying or being undocumented, from this point of view. Two things are very dangerous for a country. Let's say another thing, Mr. Junqueras, Vice President, with all respect: "I don't deny it, we don't deny it because you haven't put in fictitious entries; on the contrary, I've told you many times that people don't see gestures and governments either. We have denied it, politically, that you do not accept to use the fiscal potentials that Catalonia has to address a better number of entries, no longer only with the reform of important taxes. Look, now that you're together, can you answer me, one of the two, Mr. Comin or you, so there's not a single measure, not a single plan to see how it recovers a share of the 2,000 million that you have recognized that you would have to pay the mutuals and that you are paying the national health system? I already know that this isn't getting back at once. I know it's very difficult, that this isn't traffic accidents, but there's no measuring alone, and, if not, that's unexplained from this point of view. About the tax agency: you see, you've been all over the place using the typical technique of the fallacy of the ballman. You invent our interventions, not mine, from the rest of the groups, so that you can fight them better; but, of course, you blame us for things we have not said. Miri, from the tax agency, we're a bunch of partisans, not from now on, forever, huh? Tell him - I'll go to Junts' spokesman for the Yes. But we are supporters of a tax agency that works in cooperation with the Spanish Tax Agency. Why? Why are we still Spanish recalcitrant? So, no; simply, because in fiscal matters, cooperation is the best way to get rid of tax fraud, and while there is a diversity of competitions, that's the key. And that's what Catalonia's state of autonomy says. But who is responsible for the fact that, at this time, the Catalonia Tax Agency is in precarious condition? You said so. "It is precarious, we have a level of development that is lower than that of Murcia," he said one day. Clearly, that, some responsibility will have, Mr Puigdemont, won't it? And you didn't pick up the party that was talking about sovereignty, sovereignty, sovereignty, and you had the tax agency dead of physics, without developing it? If you say so, we would agree, but please don't come to us with these constant failures. And once again, he insists that these assumptions are the most social in history. Look, say 'a mechanism, a system, the one you want, to analyze it, and I tell you..., I absolutely dismount it. First of all, when we talk about social spending, we're talking about people, huh? : How much social expense is used for each person is the best system to measure it. And I've already told him that at this point in time we have the level of social spending per capita for the year 2004, in nominal terms. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] There are more people, of course; there are more needy, of course. Then how can you say they're the most social assumptions? How did the people notice it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I remember what you said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.48.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.49.0	...that you never interrupt, that must be more true than the one that says you never tell lies, I hope. [[Some applause.]] Leave me alone to tell him. Another thing: the initial assumptions and the settled assumptions. It's true, when the assumptions are made in October, the only possibility to compare them is with the initial assumptions. But when the assumptions are made in June-July, there is another mechanism to know if the assumptions are real or fictitious. And theirs are less fictitious, but they're still unreal. And how can you possibly know that? So, comparing what you say is going to happen to what's going on, and it's already been six months! And I'm telling him that you guys have overvalued your tax bills. They have them, and I've quantified them. Why? Because the first-quarter execution says they're not coming. And so we could put one thing behind the other, permanently. All and every one of your statements... – not all, forgive me, matiso –, many of the statements that you have said, if we had a little time, we would have an opportunity to unmount them there, because to say things, to send orders is very easy; but when after the instructions, the numbers do not follow, and, above all, the numbers deny it, at the same time, it is very complicated to support it. Clearly when one has the battled division Ithaca, huh? – in Madrid it's said Brunete, here it's said Ithaca; it's this media curated division that systematically repeats everything the government wants – it's very easy from this point of view to plant what you do. But, well, I'm done, Mr. Vice President. Miri, me, unlike the company Alicia Romero, I know, I do know – and she, too – what you came here to the second intervention. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] You're already giving the presuppositions for lost, and then you've come to put Arnica in your group. What? Giving them a satisfaction to the body, giving them four applause. That's what I've seen do in other places too. And for this reason today, with your intervention, you have not had any intention of building a situation of the future, nor just to build bridges, but simply to heal the wounds that, doubtless, the situation of today leaves in your group and in your government. It's normal, it's legitimate; maybe we'd all have done the same, but that's what lasts. I recommend that from here to the 26th of June, take the air, take a deep breath...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.50.0	Mr. Coscubila, time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.51.0	...see the results, value them and make a thought. You know that; if you consider that another full route is possible, as we consider it, with the reference in the center and with social policies in the first place, always – always – we would be willing to build with you..., well, you and what you represent, not as vice president, but you already know what I'm saying to you, huh? Let's talk about it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.52.0	Next, the words of Mr. Enric Millo, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.53.0	Thank you, President. President, members of the Government, Members of Parliament... the grain and the scorpion. [[Rialles.]] Of course, before, when I made the reference to the grain and scorpion fault, everyone understood me. Just 'if you understand me perfectly that even the MP of the UPC, when she came here, asked me if I knew the one about the deaf grain, who I don't know. But everyone has understood that it refers to you, the deaf grain. And no one else had anything else. And, in change, you, when he began to repeat the fault, which I thought, "Look how kind he is, isn't he? ; repeats another time the fault that I have explained thread in a row, right? Exactly the same, he had to work very hard to give it a turn and give it a feeling that no one had understood, in relation to the scorpion and the grain. This must be because of the amount of flu you have had to go through to live with the scorpion; so many of the flus that went through do things like this. That's the reality, isn't it? But, of course, you've said here some things that I want to kill them, before I make some general considerations in these minutes that we have, right? In relation to... and, more importantly, cordially, because you have referred to concrete questions that I have explained, haven't you? With regard to the issue of intergenerational debt, you came here to do well, when I criticized the issue of disability and debt, intergenerational debt. Home, you say, "It's not trivial, it's not trivial. No, I don't – I don't. But if you, when you were in the tripartite, that sometimes when you talk about things about the tripartite government, you don't seem to be there, as if it were an external thing, don't you? In 2009, you, the tripartite government, signed different transactions that ended up paying for the year 2108. He got me right, didn't he? 2108. Do you know where he signed it? The government of the tripartite, of which you were a part. Then, of course, when you come here to talk about this issue of intergenerational debt, man, yes, but you do a little my fault, because the main ones responsible are precisely you. When he speaks that the deficit is neither positive nor negative, it depends on the use he uses. So, look, with this statement so concrete and so theoretical that I could still agree with it – and I could still agree with it. Now, precisely because of this, criticism is in the use that is being done, and the use that is being done is harmful, it is harmful; it is not a use that has to be seen with the needy, with the interests of Catalans. And another topic to which you referred, because I mentioned it in my speech and you didn't say anything at the beginning, did you? : structured finances we're paying now, who compromised them? So, who's been doing structured finance operations? The recent government, before Junts for the Yes, was not exactly the tripartite. Oh, my God! , Esquerra Republicana was part of this tripartite, which signed operations to pay 2108 and, in addition, committed the finances of the Government of the Generality for future years on the basis of operations that are called structured financing, which means, therefore, well, operations of those that seem to pay an lloger and that every year you have to pay a quantity, right? Then you also told me about the prorogation of assumptions and came to say that the prorogation of assumptions this, so, of course, is painful, isn't it? Because it's a prorogation that's hurting us, isn't it? And I ask myself the following question: man, you don't have to be so hurtful, this extension, because it's the extension of a premise, that of 2015, that you vote for. Did you vote for the 2015 budget or not? Yeah, right? So, it's supposed to be a pretty good assumption, right, this 2015? So, if at last you, with a good assumption, because you voted for it, and, more importantly, with additional tickets that come to it all the way back to what we explained this morning, it turns out you have more ability to deal with needy ones, so you don't have to be so painful, do you? And another question. You accused me of saying that the 1,100_million additional euros go exclusively to the process. I didn't say that. I refer to the Minutes, don't I? , to the session logbook. But an important part, yes. And this important part of money that you devote not only to the process, to the... well, fi, to the process, to the embassies, to the structures of the state, to these things, so we understand that it is money that should be dedicated to meeting the social needs of Catalans and Catalans. So, a question that also calls attention. You said it with a tender tone, it almost seemed..., there was a moment that seemed to be crying, almost, didn't you? He says: "Home," he says, "clearly, it is that, fixed 't, the Government of the State may now impose a fine; perhaps they may impose a fine, because, of course, with the deficit and such. Well, it's, of course, that the State is responsible for the deficiency of all autonomous communities, huh? [[Widow's remorse.]] Oh, so much! Enclosure her, the one generated by her government! So much! And, besides, that which is derived from the expenses those which can hardly be done by the hand of the scissors, and you know what I mean; in relation to the benefits of the twilight, in relation to the pensions. Doesn't the generality cover these expenses? No, it doesn't cover them, no. Therefore, the one who pays them obviously has to have a margin that allows him to face them. And a question, in these previous, isn't it? You have solemnly said here, and, moreover, to your group this has given a great applause, which you never lie. And I believe it. Now, surely there was a day when you skated, and I ask you to explain it to us, right? The month of November 2013– La Vanguardia published – said: « Junqueras threatens to stop the Catalan economy for a week to press Spain. I ask you: did you tell the truth that day or not? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? Was he telling the truth or not? Because, if I were to tell the truth, then we all have to be a little worried, because it turns out that the Vice President and Economic Advisor would be willing to put up with the Catalan economy to pressure Spain, and that I think is very worrying. That's hard, isn't it? irresponsibility. And if that's not true, mmmm! I mean, he didn't tell the truth, and so there was one day that you weren't completely honest, was there? Well, in any case, I'll leave the question. And to finish this minute and a half that I have left, some considerations about what has been, in general, his answer, right? First of all, I think what we have here is a government that hasn't just given its face, right? ; it is a government that, until today, has not wanted to answer the spokesman one by one. I have to tell you that the impossibility of making a debate one by one and that obliges us, therefore, now to be careful to devote here a few minutes to making an answer like that, a little lost, so, man, it is a lack of respect not only to the spokesman or to parliamentary groups, but, ultimately, to the same Parliament, isn't it? And that, therefore, comes, more than anything else, from a government than at this time... a parliamentary group that supports this government, which is divided, fragmented, a government that doesn't have the majority to approve the premise, so it's especially difficult, isn't it? From here my second point of view: you are still living in this reality that is virtual, that is not really affecting the life of Catalans, and in this virtual reality you are still installed, but I hope that it will soon become clear that this is not the best solution for Catalonia. Catalonia, as I say, is today at a standstill. We have no presuppositions processed, we are not able to finish, surely, the legislature in time and form. Officially, you've been having parliamentary debates lately, twenty-four months and, more importantly, it's from a parliamentary group that you see as having little to say. I don't know if they're being kidnapped, as some say, or simply what they have is Stockholm syndrome, right? But in any case, this is the reality. And today, on the other hand, what we would have liked, and with that, Madam President, I'm done, is that you've been talking to us, so, about these thousand barracks that I've been talking about before, right? , that we continue to have in Catalonia, of line 9 of the metro, of the closing of lines of P3, from the lack of recovery to the schools bressol, a little of everything that you did not want to talk to us and that, therefore, we consider it more important. Therefore, our task, Mr Junqueras, is a task to the totality, but it is a threefold task: it is a task to the presupposition, to the totality; it is a task to the Government, to the totality, and it is a task to the process. That is why we consider that a strong and responsible opposition to the spectacle, to the vodevil that we are carrying is necessary, because only from a strong opposition can we build a strong Catalonia. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.54.0	Thank you, Mr. Millo. Next, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.55.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. First of all, some acclamations. When it comes to whether or not we accept debates in totality, we read the Parliament's website and say: "Later, after the debate is over, the plenary will take the joint vote of all the papers. If the papers are approved, the project will be rejected, which has never happened. If the items are rejected, the project will continue processing, and they will already tend to fix the input forecast and the maximum overall expenditure resulting from the submitted project, and the distribution of these sections. Obviously, we do not like to present a statement to the totality, because we have always defended the possibility and the need to enter into debate, but when the forecast of entrances and the overall expenditure we believe is not appropriate to what should be answered, or should be answered, to the legislature. [[remorse of the voice]] When we have put on the table the need to disobey tops of deficit, therefore, to increase tickets and increase expenses, we understand that this is the way. You can share it or not. Beyond that, and without going into a debate on toilets, what we really want to do..., the reflection, we, today and now, was that there is obviously a disagreement today, but that we are convinced that when we look at the process that we started in 2010 and arrive, in this analysis, on today's date, we would add that there have been and there are differences, but that it is not a catastrophe, that while there are those who put all the expectations on June 26th, because they do not escape from anyone but tomorrow night an electoral campaign begins. There are those who put the expectations on June 26th and there are those who speak that June 26th the miracle will be produced and the right to decide will appear. We are convinced that neither that I win the People's Party nor that I win the Socialist Party nor that I win, at all, Citizens or that we can, the right to decide will appear, and that, therefore, the full road of unilaterality continues fully in force, and it is the full road that we mark and that we must mark. And it's obvious, too, that, like us more or less, people force us to find agreements – agreements that we haven't found yet today, but that we don't give up finding – to establish or build the republic and why 2017 is really the year of disconnection and, therefore, we can approve, also before this year ends, the law of legal transition. And in order not to widen us further, we would just like to end up trying to put a little optimism despite the difficulties we are in now and we understand that we are in there. They only stifle those who are advancing, or say in another way, the only way not to stifle is not to move 'when you are. Blowing, therefore, is a good sign, a sign that things are moving; a sign that you are heading somewhere. We also take over from the CUP - Creed It is that for many people, we are grueling, but we are convinced that we are grueling because we are moving, that we will continue to move and that, so now, it is time to get up again and continue working. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.56.0	Thank you, Mrs. Regant. Next, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.57.0	Thank you, President. It turns out that throughout today there has been a scene played with greater or lesser luck – with this I no longer do – that is to say, from a band, to minimize the effects of a presuppositional prorogation, as if nothing happened, and then it goes on to say that this has a brutal political fall. It is to say, on one side, to say: 'Listen to me, nothing happens if we extend the assumptions, but on the other, to say: 'Listen to me, here there must be political consequences, if the assumptions are not approved, if there is a presumption. And, then, some groups say to us: "Abandoning the proceedings, abandoning everything that they have devised, coming back – as they say? – « to the path of the seny. I don't know if it wasn't quite clear with the statement that we made both the vice president and our group: we do not give up, nor do we resign from the democratic mandate of 27 September. [[applause]] , we exercise it until the later consequences. All groups – it's logical, on the other hand – have faced these assumptions with their own political, party-damaged prejudices. Actually, I insist, it's logical, normal, even healthy, isn't it? , that from all of our ideological optics, from our ideological point of view, we face up to the assumptions presented today by the Government of the Generality in this Parliament. In fact, we say so before, we also believe in the strength of assumptions as a tool of social transformation, as a tool for changing realities, so it is obviously important that we look at them from a political perspective, from an ideological perspective and even from a legitimately partisan perspective. The problem is when this optical partyer doesn't get us to see reality, it's so thick and so sluggish that it doesn't get us to see reality. Mr. Coscubila and Mrs. Romero, in their initial interventions, but they have also been insisting on disprove the elements for which they consider that today they must present a statement to the totality in these assumptions and, therefore, ask who are the concrete questions that do not please them from these assumptions. The problem is that this analysis wasn't a sincere analysis, it was an analysis marked by this overly partisan optics, [[remorse of the voice]] Why, Mrs. Romero, what day did you announce that you presented papers to the totality of the assumptions? May 24th. What day were the presuppositions presented in this Parliament, May 24. Did they have time, of course, to analyse the assumptions with the detail with which they expressed themselves today? Are you sure? [[Greetings.]] Mrs Romero, you also spoke of irresponsibility and said that I had commented on it in my intervention, responsibility or irresponsibility. We do not judge the responsibility of all groups, in any case, we can appeal to what seems to us to be a responsible attitude. Finally, however, who will judge whether his actions are responsible or irresponsible will be the citizenry, not us, obviously. Now, we can call upon what seems to us to be a responsible attitude. And above all, what we can do is call an attitude that seems consistent and denounces when there are inconsistent attitudes. So, well, you've done it all the time we're in the legislature, and we'll see if you're going to do it from now on, when you're commenting on any committee or in this House that you want some expanded assumptions and talking, for example, from waiting lists to sanitation, from zero to three years, school talk, teacher talk, talking about everything that was waiting for Catalonia's citizenship in relation to these assumptions, remembering what they voted today, remembering who presented the issue to the whole and, therefore, avoided that we could talk about the assumptions. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.58.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.59.0	They also tell us that... they come to say that the government has had a fearsome attitude of presenting the assumptions, without an agreed upon, in this chamber. I don't know if I'd be afraid; in any case, confident. Because precisely the government that he trusted – and together with the Yes that we trusted – is that they would complement the agreements and, therefore, that they presented assumptions here that counted on a majority parliament because that was why it dictated a parliamentary stability agreement. That's what we trust. You mean you're naive? So, say 'nsingenus. Now, don't tell us you're afraid. Because trusting that they agree and that they complete the agreements, in any case, can be a little naïve, but you won't be afraid. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] In any case, the compañera Reguant, the deputy Reguant... – and with all the affection, obviously – has escaped a bit of this regulatory vein overtaken us, huh? That they came at once. Obviously, we also have the analysis, we, the Rules of Parliament, and, in fact, we are submissive, as it could not be otherwise. Now, in his case, this appeal to Parliament's Rules of Procedure with what we agreed, which is that you prefer to enrich the assumptions in the period of debate, is to say, a time past today's debate. Therefore, either we call on the Rules or we call on the given word, and the agreement was precisely that you prefer that it is present without these assumptions and that then, by means of papers, and in the parliamentary process, you would help to enrich them, help to reach an agreement. In any case, this regulatory vein has escaped us. And so did this appeal, this reference to the June 26 elections. Listen to me, what happens to us in the June 26 elections matters to us very little in relation to these assumptions, we matter to us very little in relation to what we do to this chamber. In fact, we could have cancelled parliamentary activity, as had been done on other occasions for the election campaign, and both you and we agreed that this was not so. Why? Just because it is clear that the agenda, the times and the dynamics of this Parliament of Catalonia have absolutely nothing to do with the June 26 elections. [[Greetings.]] I'm done. Are the assumptions, in short, that it is worth the fiscal effort made by the citizens of Catalonia, and the businesses of this country? No, not yet. It's not yet the assumptions that we deserve socially, it's not yet the assumptions that we could afford depending on the taxes we pay. And, in fact, that's why we're walking, just walking because someday – and this will only happen when we have a state close to us – from all the taxes we receive from the fiscal effort made by Catalans and Catalans, in order to arrange this Parliament of Catalonia, the Government of the Generality. While, however, it is to say, tomorrow, a few hours from now, the week you see, there have been peremptory needs, there are social emergencies that we need to cover, and they are better covered with approved assumptions than with the extension of the 2015 assumptions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.60.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrent. Mr. Turull, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.61.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. We would ask for the word because, in view of the presentation of all the groups, the result that is predicted and, obviously, that this has to do with the next point, we would ask that – and it is the president's power – before the vote on the assumptions, we suspend the plenary for a space of half an hour.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.62.0	Okay. Let's resume the Ple, exactly from here to thirty minutes. [[Funnel veils]] Thirty minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.63.0	It's part of the session. The debate has ended, in accordance with Rule 129, by letter and by letter of the Rules of Procedure, all the papers submitted to the totality shall be voted together. If the Ple agrees to the return of the bill, this is rejected. Alternatively, they have to fix the input forecast and the maximum overall expenditure resulting from the submitted project, and the distribution of these by sections. So now we're calling for a vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We call for a vote to vote on all the items together. [[Pause.]] Let's start voting on all the papers together. The vote begins. The papers were approved by 72 votes in favour, 62 against and no abstentions. [[The President of the Generalitat asks to speak.]] Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.64.0	I'd like to use the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.65.0	Okay. Be aware we're coming back. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.66.0	Madam President, Mr Vice-President, Councillors and Councillors, Members, Members and Lords, those who are here, those who follow us through the communication media, I have obviously asked for the word of the government's prerogative to intervene at any time in the plenary, aware that they are coming back, because I believe that as President of the Generality, as a result of the vote and, therefore, as a result of the political circumstances that are drawn from that day, I believe that this is the moment when I give some explanations and proposals for a follow-up of reflections and decisions. The situation calls for it. Many people who are looking at us, who are following us in these past hours, with that anxiety of decisive moments, with anguish, with concern, not with much joy, surely, not so alone in the camps opposed to which is the project towards the independence of Catalonia, I think they deserve a message from the President of the Generality at these moments, and some considerations, and some decisions. At these times, today, practically five months after the investiture debate, the conditions that have given little to the prime minister of the legislature have changed profoundly, and I feel compelled to compare before the chamber, that it is how things are to be done, to announce them in what way I and the government that I preside assume the consequences of this change that I was not expecting and that was not expected, but that in any case it is an important change in the initial conditions. What were the conditions? And let me make them a little reminder of what some may have forgotten, but from which only five scarce months have passed. This Parliament started the legislature with two failed investment sessions, as you remember. The candidate of the parliamentary group of the majority of Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, the student president Arthur Mas, assumed a great responsibility when he renounced to continue feeling the candidate and to take a step at the side, in an unprecedented gesture, also unprecedented to Spanish politics, in a noble gesture, of generous ambition and of country. And that's what everybody recognized. In a gesture, too, essential because the legislature of disconnection, this legislature, the legislature of disconnection, which has to prepare Catalonia to become an independent state, can begin to walk and do not encounter any obstacles, and because it did so, above all, without interbanks. And this represented a great sacrifice, a great sacrifice of Junts for the Yes, which gave up his sign. A great sacrifice, in particular, for the political family to which I belong, Democratic Convergence. On that occasion, the Parliament was drawn—and it is drawn—by the decision of the polls and the mandate of the people of Catalonia, seventy-two deputies in favour of independence. And that's why we have to make sacrifices, and some of us have done more than others, because we understand that we need to respect the burden of the citizens who want – and want – to build an independent state. That's why he came to an agreement some time later. An agreement of five points the first of which says, literally, the following: "With the effect of guaranteeing parliamentary stability and strengthening the government's action during this legislature, the Constituent CUP - Creed is committed to: 1. Do not vote, in any case, in the same sense that the parliamentary groups opposed the process and/ or the right to decide when it is at risk for the disabled. With this agreement at hand, to which I will return from here to a pond, the student president and all who participated in the agreement arrive at the conviction that yes, the legislature was free. That day I remember it well. I think you remember it well, too. I remember the exact words of those days and I remember the contradictory feeling, that perhaps it is also today's gift, of sadness, of one band, and also of desire to maintain the illusion, of the other. That is why I accepted an uncomfortable but necessary responsibility, and I promised that I would spare no effort, that I would leave my hair there and that I would do well, that I would try to do well. I understand and understand that so many people who are deluded, so many people who have worked without expecting any reward and only that a little gratitude is worth it, precisely, the gratitude of those who are their representatives, of those who we have presented and we have asked for the vote and we have asked them for the confidence to be their representatives. They were waiting, all these people, and they're still hoping that, as a minimum, as long as they don't expect any reward, we'll treat them with a point of gratitude. To respect the voters and the desire for independence, Together for the Yes, sixty-two Members, accepted that their candidate, which is a decision – I repeat – of a huge transcendence, is withdrawn. He accepted it because we got the stability guarantee from the future government that was to prepare the state structures and the disconnection process with the Spanish state. The guarantee he gave for writing a group of two deputies. Well, today we see with sadness and disappointment, or at least I see with sadness and disappointment, that a group that wins the elections with 1,6_million votes and sixty-two Members can withdraw its presidential candidate in areas of keeping the illusion alive and making the full road possible and, on the other hand, a group of two Members, a little more than 300,000 votes, cannot withdraw a statement to the whole, while having signed an agreement to stabilize. There is no proportion, there is no logic and there is no joy. [[Pause.]] In these conditions it is not possible to continue – in these conditions –; in these conditions it is possible to continue and it is necessary to continue, but in these conditions it is not. We're not going anywhere with such volatile bases. Without guaranteed estabilitation they can't rule. This government remains in the hands or well of those who demand us, and today we have already felt it, to change the full road to independence, which I do not intend to renounce, or in the hands of those who demand us to make independence only in their own way, with their methodology, with their strategy, even though this contradicts the model of society of the majority and the way in which most people want to do the things they want. I therefore find that the Government that I preside over has lost the majority necessary to be able to work and complete the Government Plan which, to the best of my knowledge, was approved on the same day as my investiture, and that it is the Government Plan that inspires, by and large, the assumptions. He did not feel approved of a plan of government and then did not approve of the assumptions that complete this plan of government. The government that I chair, therefore, without proper assumptions, is supposed to confront the state with an extended assumption, which is like hunting elephants with a balloon shotgun. Moreover, it is assumed that we should pass the examination of the general policy debate without being able to compromise absolutely anything, nor to defend with concrete presuppostari commitments our political intentions. We have no presupposition – now we know this –; we do not have a majority of Parliamentarians who were guaranteed to us through a signed agreement; we do not have confidence, therefore, with whom we fail to complete an agreement rejected with illusion and hope for all our voters – ours, of the two parliamentary groups that we have reached that agreement. And, therefore, we have the right to ask ourselves what guarantee we have, what guarantee I have, with the President, that future agreements will complement. They tell us: « 2016 is not possible, but surely 2017 will be possible. Oh, yeah? Based on what agreement? Will we sign an agreement that will then also change, like all agreements, that we have seen have their own life? What guarantee do we have from now on to sign something that guarantees us that essential rehabilitation to fulfill the desire of the good people who voted for us? I trusted you and I defended them to the end. A lot of people– a lot of people– trusted you– a lot. You have deceived the hopes of millions of people who have mobilized all these years without the least... that they have no excuse, no other pretension, no interest than Catalonia that we are all, Catalonia that wants to progress and build and that gives the hand without asking what it thinks or talks about the coast, this Catalonia, was an independent state. And I also like to say that among their very ranks of voters today there are people who don't do well; I would say, at last, that in their own political structure today there are people who don't do well, and I don't like people. And to these people I want to address a final message of hope. Today I reiterate the solemn compromise, here in the Parliament of Catalonia, of loyalty to Parliament and the people of Catalonia; the commitment to bring the country to the gates of independence; the commitment to do it well; the commitment to count with everyone and to preserve and prioritize, as has been seen in the supposition presented by the Vice-President, the people before the parties and the ideologies. Today, too, all these commitments, to be possible, and to which I have not renounced... today require some new conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, in a mature democracy, when a government loses the majority, it is understood and accepted that it can no longer continue to rule with the necessary conditions to develop its political project. Even though there are political systems in which this circumstance involves the immediate cessation of the Government and the convening of elections, and perhaps in the process they constitute a new country, we have to leave them in writing, and we have to commit ourselves to a much more open exercise of power and parliamentarianism, much more responsible than we have inherited, the fruit of a political culture of the Transition, than of a political culture in which there was much, but of a democratic culture, nor that it was for the short time that I had, not of people. That's why our model doesn't go that far. But I can't keep ruling like I'm willing to the same majority that invested me. I recognize it and I say it here. And I make it clear that things have changed and I have no interest in unnecessarily and unjustifiably extending the mandate. First place, for democratic convictions, and second place, because I want to make independence. I do not want to continue to administer the ramps of an extension of a presupposition drawn up and approved for a government and a Parliament that did not have the mandate of independence as it does here. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Our model, the one we have now, links the president to the faculty of calling elections, but with this ability I am not at the disposal of him until August, as surely all of you know. It is also true that the call for elections in advance in the hands of a president – and this is a faculty that our system foresees, whether we like it or not – can raise, and certainly quite rightly, all the suspicions about its true intention: the moment sorted, conditions, etc. That is why the announcement that I was elected last August and with the resuming of the new parliamentary class I submitted to a question of confidence because the Parliament that chose me, the Parliament that approved my government program, the one that has the power to clarify in which conditions and with which majorities it is possible to complete the full road to the independent Catalan state, or if it triggers the process to call nine elections that will determine in the hands of whom our citizens will entrust the construction of the future of Catalonia. Catalonia deserves more; in fact, Catalonia deserves everything. Together for the Yes we have shown that we are builders, because we were born with spirit built and we were born with a yes under the arm. No one will take this compromise from us. To the Catalans who in these hours are watching with concern the blockade of the assumptions and their consequences, to the Catalans who have voted any of the independence options that are presented to the elections of 27 September, who see that this first independence government cannot approve its first and, at the moment, the only assumptions, I want to address a message of trust and hope. And I want to tell you that we are not willing to do anything, at any cost to continue the government, nor are we willing to give up our full route, which is the route to the future and to the freedom of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.67.0	If the groups want to intervene... [[Miquel Iceta and Llorens ask to speak.]] Mr. Iceta? No... is it that he wants to intervene in question? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, it's that, first, in any case, it would be the Ciutadans Group. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr De Paramo..., it's been thirty minutes, the president has been thirty minutes talking, so..., sorry, I was wrong, fifteen minutes talking – fifteen. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Fifteen minutes talking, so it's three minutes. In any case, I would have the word, in the first place, the lady Inés Arrimadas. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.68.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. President, chronicle of an announced death. He didn't have to come this far to find out what he'd be spending today, three months from now, one year from now. I think you knew perfectly well that you had never had a settlement agreement with the CUP. A pact, I don't know, but it's been disabled – it's been disabled – you've never had it in these months of Parliament. And we've seen it all the time, every plenary, in all the votes. And today's problem is not to have assumptions, that can happen; not to have the majority to approve the first one some assumptions can go into democracy, it's a sign of a weak government, but it can go through. The problem we have today is that we don't have a government; we don't have a government that thinks of Catalans, that makes politics realistic. He's been doing stage plays all day, theaters, and it's not a real policy. The problem of today, I insist, is not to have assumptions, it is to have no government; not to have a government that defends the interests of Catalans where they are to defend them, because you have renounced them. A president of the Generality who does not speak as the president of an autonomous community who wants to be better, but speaks as the president of a country who wants to have a good state, but does not think about people. And that, for us, is not to solve the lives of Catalans. Today we don't have assumptions and it's not because of the UPCs, it's because of the government, which trusted an anti-system party, a party that I know perfectly well that you never trusted. You've been surprised today, but I think you've seen that you've never trusted the CUP word. Why, what's the matter, that you don't know how to make decisions in the UPC? You didn't know the CUP was an assembly party? You didn't know the CUP was an anti-system party? They came all the way up here and didn't fit in whose name was the partner they had sorted out? The only thing we've said to him is that since the year 2010 the only thing we've achieved is that Catalonia's most important decisions are taken at a meeting of the UPC, and that's not good news for the Catalans. We want a government of the Generalitat that thinks of Catalans, that defends the interests of Catalans, here and in Madrid; that wants to connect more and better Catalonia with the rest of Spain. Mr. Mas's 2010 bet was seen today that it failed. I only ask you not to waste more time in Catalonia, because we have a lot of work ahead of you, honestly..., today it has been shown that you are not at the height of the circumstances. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.69.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Next, the words of Mr Miquel Iceta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.70.0	Thank you very much, President. Very honourable President, I would like to congratulate you. I was returning this morning to the direction of my parliamentary group on what should be the effects on the eventuality of a government defeat in a process as essential as the assumptions. And we came to the conclusion that what would correspond, if it were to produce this adventitiousness, was to ask the president that he is subject to a question of trust. Therefore, I would like to congratulate you and point out this coincidence that, moreover, if you are curious, then you can document it, because my intervention was written. Now it will allow me to carry a week back this debate. I asked him a question, and he finished the following way: "Do you believe, Mr President, that your Government has the cohesion and parliamentary support sufficient to bring its management forward with the necessary stability and solvency? The answer is: "No. It is not and today it has been certified for a vote. Of all the ways, President, I would not just want to signify coincidences, because there is a discrepancy of funds that we maintain and that I think we need to go away if we want to do something folded; if we want to do it. President, of 27 September there is no citizen mandate for independence. It's our criteria, it's our thinking, it's the effect that numbers are for whom I want to see them. Another thing is that you say, quite rightly, that your election program, and also that of your partner then sorted, set up this path, and that as far as they had a large parliamentary majority they could try to lie there. But the mandate for independence, President, was not there. From our point of view, its full route is illusori; there is no unilateral path, neither legal nor independence, nor reference. Bringing the assumptions to Parliament without agreeing to them is an error and effectively you cannot continue to rule as if you were. I believe that the city of Catalonia deserves more sincerity, more realism, more ease and more efficiency. From this point of view, the question of trust that you will present when you return from vacation and what you have also passed, whether we like it or not, whether we share it or not, in the general elections of June 26th, will open a new political stage. If it's for the stability, if it's for the good government, if it's for a new deal with the rest of Spain, if it's for a policy, with the vice president's permission, still more social, it can always count on us; to divide, to break, to separate, no. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.71.0	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. Next, has the word Lord Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.72.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, president, first tell him that we value – we value – seriously the gesture and intervention that you have just made take note of a relevant political situation, and it is the lack of a majority enough to bring forward the most important law of a legislature, which are the assumptions. Even so, what we want to say to him is that his reflection on our parent is still short and he has not just assumed that the problem is not so much that of a member's loyalty or disloyalty, but the same full route. We said from the beginning, from the beginning of 27 September, that elections had been held in plebiscite terms and that Catalan citizenship had been committed to say 'yes or' no, and the citizenry said: 'Yes, but no. In other words, there was no clear and net democratic mandate for independence. A majority of Parliamentarians came out in escons of independence-friendly parties. But that doesn't solve the problem, and that problem is latent. And they have persisted in a full route, which they still seem to want to maintain, which has had a characteristic that has led to this situation. And it is that it has, somehow, in the name of the objective of independence, compressed the contradictions and social problems of this country. And we've come to some unfeasible assumptions, and we've come to a debate where in the same majority they don't agree on fiscal and tax policy, and we've come to some assumptions where the different perspectives on social realities have made it impossible to take the assumptions. And a full route that doesn't work from the point of view of disconnection. We've seen it these weeks, or these months: combination of wide-ranging proclamations and disconnection decisions with realistic practices forced by the reality of the situation. We do not ask anyone, he did not ask you or anyone, that I renounced the objective of independence, which is perfectly legitimate and democratic. What we say is that it is impossible, for whom independence is required, to reach this objective without going through the construction of a social majority for the right to decide and for the exercise of a reference. And in this sense, we... this morning we talked, and this late too, with a certain displicity of what's going to happen on June 26th, as if this isn't going to happen to us, when everyone's going to hang out on what's going to happen on June 26th, huh? , starting with the majority who give support to the Government. We don't speculate about what's going to happen or what's not going to happen. We understand that to get out of this atzucac to build a social majority, to fight for the right to decide and also to build complicity with the people of the state who share our longings for social progress and our democratic prospects. And this isn't speculation for us. There were drawings of Members, on 20 December, for the right to decide that they arrived at the Congress of Deputies, and I am convinced that there will be much more to arrive on 26 June, and we wait, and we work, at all events actively, so that they are sufficient to decanter and generate a political space favorable to the democratic aspirations of Catalonia. In this scene we work and in this scene we will actually discuss, in return for vacation, and we will probably find other paths more fruitful than those that have gone so far. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.73.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. The words of Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.74.0	Madam President... Mr President, in your words we have clearly seen indignation and surprise. But I have to tell him that since the People's Party this surprise I haven't had it. You decided to look for some travel companies that are anti-systems and that it was foreseeable that they would end up provoking what happened here in Parliament today. Why? Because among their people they carry intransigence. And this intransigence is what has surely caused one of the legislatures, one of the majority, the shortest in the history of this Parliament of Catalonia. You referred to your intervention that we were in a historic legislature. And it's true. It's historic, Mr. President. And it is historical because in a legislature the Parliament had never rejected a judicial resolution in which it was established that the rights of the members of the People's Party of Catalonia, or of any other member, were violated, and it is also historical because for the first time the first assumptions, the first or the last ones, fall to their own travel companies. And you, apart from coming to renegade with your intervention the UPC, came here to look for, and I have to tell you, the media. And we, I'll explain, we won't participate. To me it seems legitimate..., and if you haven't explained it today, we would have asked you tomorrow to present a question of trust. Looks like you're in a bit of a mix-up. What seems to us to be a game, Mr. President, is that this trusted young man is the present between four and a half months. What are you waiting for? Spend September 11th 2016 to warm the atmosphere on the day of the day and tender pressure for the CUP? If you want to present a reliable motion, which is what you have to do, present it the week you go. And you lose election calls for the month of September. But I don't expect us here to be four more months out of the legislature, because Catalans have been wasting time on sterilized debates for many months now and without any kind of government. Therefore, from the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr President, we tell him to go ahead with the motion of confidence, but the week he sees or the other. The other aspect I would like to point out is that it has seemed regrettable to us some of the expressions he has used. To say that this legislature for you was to confront, that this legislature, these assumptions, were to confront the Spanish State, he said and I pointed out, seems to me to be a speech very little optimistic and very little responsible, and more in a few moments of weakness. Because you only have two options: or call the Catalans again, which will be the fourth time in six years, or try to recognize that the adventure they started some time ago is over and has no more recourse. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.75.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.76.0	Thank you, President. Honourable President, after your words, the facts have taken on a far greater relevancy than we had imagined or thought. That's right. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, no one offends because we tell the truth about what we think. Let no one offend, please, let no one offend for what we give. We feel responsible, co-responsible, for these facts, but not guilty – but not guilty. [[Some applause.]] And it's from co-responsibility in the facts, and also in the process, and in the commitments made, that we want to say that we have this compromise, we have it and we will always have it. You can be sure of that. We accept the challenge of the question of trust, and we will approach it with responsibility, with lights and tachograph, which is how we respond to these challenges. We believe that the bridges to independence have not broken, and we think to cross them together with all the political forces that they have at once not only independence, but the social and political timing of this country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.77.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Jordi Turull, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.78.0	Thank you very much, President. Many honorable president, six months ago a president of the Generality, confident of the value of the given and signed word, made a great political sacrifice and took a step at the side. Today we have a president who, seeing as they spend those who don't give value to the given and signed word, takes a step forward, and takes a step forward by dignity, because before a parliamentary defeat than a yield. [[Some applause.]] A return before those who are unable to meet their commitments. We want to give a message of tranquillity to the citizen. Together for the Yes it was formed, it was presented and it is here to build a state for Catalonia, and Together for the Yes it will continue here to build a state for Catalonia. We will be accompanied or alone, but we will not fail at the illusions of the people of Catalonia, who have been mobilized for four years. [[Greetings.]] What they've done today, gentlemen of the CUP, is very difficult. It's very hard for the process and it's very hard for the while. For all those people, who may have been very fat or very leftover... but with these assumptions they had a few better ones, which perhaps for you they are little, and they will have to hold on, and they will have to hold on because of the fact that these assumptions cannot be dealt with. And it's very hard for the process. Why? Because you signed a compromise. You gave the word. How many are we going through, and can Councilman Rull, Councilman Romeva, Marta Rovira, myself, with some of you that night of the 8th generation passing what was "parliamentary estabilité"? How many hours did we spend? Or with Marta Rovira, when we asked them: "How do they want to negotiate the assumptions? And they said to us: "No, no, the government that approves them, we will already negotiate them. « – Hey! , that tomorrow the assumptions go to the government. - Don't worry, I'll tell you what. Can you hold your eyes? I'm sure they can take it, I can take it. The one I don't know... if they could hold their eyes to all those people who have had so many sacrifices four years ago who are mobilized, who have an illusion and who have a dream. [[Greetings.]] I don't know if they can hold their eyes. As he said, it is very simple to call courage from a safe distance. "They do this, they do that, which is mullin les Mossos, which is mullin les Iletrats, which is mullin les; they do this, they are valiant. Here the one who showed courage is this government, which did not fail in terms of what had been compromised. We, at this point, are where we promised we'd be. We have not failed and we will not fail. And, finally, I am sorry to have been so explicit: President, in the investiture debate you said, and you called us all..., and you told us there..., with many differences, but from the illusion of the seventy-two Members, you said to us: "Leave pride and take dignity. Some of them have sorted pride today. Together for the Yes will always determine dignity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-06-08-1801.79.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. In accordance with Article 125 of the Rules of Procedure, the Government has asked us to withdraw the draft law on fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures. MPs, MPs, many thanks. The session will be up until tomorrow morning.
