i-da78c7bb4140273a-2	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman has asked me what concrete measures I have taken and what concrete measures I will take in my area of responsibility to speed up the conversion of the fleet. Transport accounts for one third of Sweden's total greenhouse gas emissions. To switch to a fossil-free transport sector and to achieve Parliament's climate targets, strong measures are needed in transport efficiency, electrification, sustainable renewable fuels and energy-efficient vehicles. The state should set an example by driving fossil-free as far as possible. The government has already implemented a number of measures and is planning new measures to strengthen the efforts of the authorities to re-establish their fleet. Since 2009, the regulation on environmental and road safety requirements for public authorities' cars and car journeys has been in force. According to the regulation, passenger cars purchased or leased by an authority must be environmental cars. There are some exceptions, for example for emergency vehicles. In addition, public authorities' cars will be driven to the greatest extent possible by renewable fuels. The Government is currently reviewing how the environmental requirements of this Regulation are to be designed to contribute to achieving the national environmental objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The review includes, among other things, a new environmental car definition, which means that we strengthen your climate requirements for the vehicles that authorities buy in. The enhanced environmental car definition follows the regulatory framework for climate bonus cars. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions is not just about the fleet. The requirements for authorities to promote climate-smart meetings and modes of transport should also be tightened up. J ag would also like to point out that 187 authorities have an environmental management system in accordance with the regulation on environmental management in state authorities. V(i) shall carry out a revision of the Regulation which shall include, inter alia, the travel and procurement of public authorities. In addition to these measures, which deal with the state's own activities, I would like to mention some measures that help other players in the transition. The change of fuel means that we are already mixing renewable fuels with low emissions in petrol and diesel. That involvement will increase in the future. Through climate change, investments have been made in over 30 000 charging points throughout the country. In the Climate Action Plan, the Government has a particular focus on transport sector measures during its term of office. The government strengthens electrification of transport. Among other things, it introduces et support for charging infrastructure along major roads to cover the white spots where charging infrastructure would otherwise not occur. An electrification commission shall be set up to speed up the electrification of heavy road transport and the transport sector as a whole. The appropriate authority shall be given the task of analysing and proposing measures for improving charging infrastructure for different forms of housing. Bonus – the Malus system, which controls the purchase of new cars, will be strengthened and simplified. In addition, the environmental vehicle reviews will be reviewed so that the vehicles in question will remain in Sweden to a greater extent and can contribute to a secondary market here. The rules on the benefit value of cars, in addition to the governance of more environmentally friendly cars, should reflect the principle of neutral taxation between benefit and cash pay. In December, the Government set up an investigation to propose a year for fossil fuels in domestic transport and machinery to be phased out in Sweden and how a phase-out of fossil fuels in the EU can be achieved. The same study will analyse the conditions for introducing a national ban on the sale of new petrol and diesel cars. Mr President, I would like to The Government intends to give the appropriate authority the task of analysing the possibility of improving guidance to consumers on the energy use of light-duty vehicles and CO2 emissions in sales and marketing. The appropriate authority shall also be tasked with analysing the conditions for a conversion aid for the existing fleet of vehicles, so that older vehicles can be powered by clean and highly mixed renewable fuels or electricity. Finally, I would like to mention that procurement is a very important tool for reducing the climate impact of public authorities, and the procurement authority must therefore be given the task of espousing measures to enable public procurement to further contribute to achieving our climate goals.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-17	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I also think it is reasonable for the state to set an example by driving fossil-free as far as possible. If you want others to change, for example, that companies should switch their fleet and drive fossil-free or that we as individuals should do so, it is more than appropriate that the state itself is a good example. Consider my surprise when I produced a report from the Parliamentary Investigation Service, published in November last year, asking the example of the state: How many electric cars does the state have? When I ask in my surroundings here in the house how much electric cars the state has, people answer 10 percent, and someone even said 50 percent. The correct answer is 1.2 per cent in 2018! This means that 99 per cent of the vehicles that the government had in 2018 were not electric vehicles. I think it's substandard. The state is not the good example that the government just said the state should be. After five years with a government that the Green Party has been part of, it is therefore 1 per cent of the state's own vehicles that are powered by electricity. It's too little. That's not good at all. Then you can look at the state companies. It's an issue the government owns. In an owner's directive, the government can tell its companies that they should choose electricity, for example. Among the ten largest companies in Sweden we can take Postnord. They have 9 704 cars. The number of possible electric vehicles is 1,800. This means that 80% of vehicles are not able to operate electrically. Perhaps not many people know that one of Sweden's largest car rental companies is a company called Arento. It is a purely state-owned company which unfortunately competes with the business community in a very unsound manner. In Today's industry we have recently been able to read how an entrepreneur in Söderhamn had to throw in the towel when it comes to car rental because the company Arento has simply dumped the prices. The private entrepreneur dropped a deal about 40 cars. It could then be thought that there could possibly be a small environmental benefit in Arento competing out the private business sector, for Arento could be an example. Arento had 2,872 vehicles, of which 121 had electric power. Or take Sveaskog. In 2018, Sveaskog had 807 vehicles. According to the Parliamentary Investigation Service, zero of them were able to operate electric power. Zero! Of 800 vehicles, such a vehicle had not been procured. There is, of course, nothing wrong with the ambitions of the Government: that the state should be an example by driving fossil-free as far as possible. But the reality, Mr President, is far from the ambitions of the government and the government. Here, however, we have to ask ourselves whether the government is saying one thing to us citizens and to companies, but acting in a completely different way itself. I simply think that a bad example is being set.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-26	Mr President, I would like to In 2018, the government started by betraying 1.3 million car owners around Sweden for laying flat for the Green Party's policy. Among other things, the bonus – the Malus system entered into force. It is a system that will benefit low-carbon cars – bonuses – and disadvantage higher-emission cars – malus. The aim was to steer consumption towards cars with lower emissions. Bonus is awarded when purchasing cars with low or no emissions. For an electric car with zero emissions you should get a maximum of 60 000 SEK in bonus. Environmental zones were introduced and 1.3 million diesel cars were banned. The tax on petrol has since been increased, which makes it more difficult for those living in rural areas. With strong demands and tough environmental policies, families and businesses throughout the country have not been given an honest chance to change. Rather, the life situation has been made more difficult for them. The government's anti-car policy is nothing more than an irresponsible betrayal that may strike the hardest against people outside the big cities, who need to be able to take the car to and from the city centre. The government's policy was a punishment for all the families who recently bought an environmental car just to be told that they are no longer welcome in our big cities and a punishment for those who live in rural areas and who have miles to drive every day to and from jobs, businesses, preschools and shopping. In addition, there is not enough public transport available. But perhaps the government's anti-car policy is not the worst. The worst part is probably that the government doesn't live as it teaches. Mr President, I would like to The government and the Green Party all point to everyone else, but they themselves completely fail. One might think that the government should set an example when setting tough environmental requirements that affect companies and individuals. Mr President, I would like to Instead, it is the opposite. In fact, I think that the cushion of shame could be developed on behalf of the government, when it has now been discovered how bad the government itself is and how terrible it is working to achieve a fossil-free vehicle fleet within its own authorities and state-owned companies. I would like to ask Minister Lövin how it feels when instead of 100%, as a fossil-free vehicle fleet actually means, it is actually 1%.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-34	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the questions. I start by addressing Lars Beckman, who in his question reports the number of vehicles for 2017 but claims that it is 2018. First of all, I would like to put on record that the figures presented by the honourable Member are not correct. This is the case: Since 1 February 2009, the state authorities will only purchase environmental cars, according to the regulation on environmental and road safety requirements for government cars and travel. Environmental cars have been defined since the time of the alliance government as cars that emit no more than 120 grams. There has also been a weight factor. A very heavy car is thus given greater emission space. This means that it is the old environmental car definition that has applied until 1 July 2018, when we introduced the bonus – the malus system. Then there has been, I would say, a lamentably long transition before we have been able to arrive at a new environmental car definition. It is planned to enter into force on 1 March this year. In this way, there will be a sharp tightening of the environmental car definition. Instead, you can look at the figures for 2018 and add up petrol, electricity and diesel cars and take into account that ethanol, gas and biofuels are also used in the other vehicle types. Then you come up with completely different numbers than those that Lars Beckman reports. Electric hybrids and electric cars are up about 12 percent. It should then be remembered that emergency vehicles – fire trucks, ambulances, police cars etc. – are exempt from environmental car requirements. That's about 25% of the state's cars. And 3 percent of the light trucks were emergency vehicles. Then there is the principle that the state should be a forerunner. Of course it is. The fact that all vehicles traded, in addition to emergency vehicles, should be environmental cars is something that we in the government stand by and that we will continue to make demands on. The government presented a climate action plan before Christmas. There we go forward with a wide range of measures to strengthen environmental and climate policy to ensure that we achieve the climate targets and, not least, the target in the transport sector, which is to reduce emissions by 70% by 2030. As I stated in my answer, we have a wide range of reforms and measures to eliminate fossil fuels altogether. Here, of course, we also have very important tools in the form of environmental management systems. This is, of course, something that also applies to state-owned companies. You have to ensure that you keep a very good track of your emissions and make sure that you contribute to achieving the climate goals.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-41	Mr President, I would like to I feel completely calm and confident that the information I have received from the Swedish Parliament's investigation service is correct – the Swedish Transport Agency's figures for 2018. But I'm going to correct a number. As far as the state-owned companies are concerned, it is not 2018. There I simply misread. This is the Swedish Transport Agency's data from 2019. So the figure is even fresher than I thought. I think this is important when we are going to make such a dramatic transition that we are still in. It's a global transition. It's a global electrification. Of course, it has little to do with Sweden that the major world-leading car manufacturers now switch their production to electric cars. Yesterday morning there was a seminar here in Parliament on electrification. Volvo Cars and Volvo Trucks talked about the work they do. Volvo Trucks, for example, pointed out that the development is a little too slow. A year ago there was a charging post for heavy vehicles. This year, a year later, there are two. Volvo Trucks said: Yes, it is a doubling, but of course our hauliers cannot build their fleet of vehicles based on such a poor charging infrastructure. But let us now stick to what the state can do itself, for the Government said in its reply that the state should be a good example. You can go through the state companies one by one. The government itself owns this issue. How do you control your state-owned companies? The government can say in a regulatory letter: You will electrify your fleet. It seems that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action is including diesel vehicles among the environmental cars; otherwise the figure she said will not be taken up. You could then instruct and say this: You should drive on HVO. You're going to run fossil-free at HVO. I have visited a number of government activities, including a government activity that has a comprehensive transport unit. Of course, I asked them: Are you driving at HVO? In Gävle they had about 20 vehicles. I asked you, are you going to HVO? Then I can say you didn't. The state authority did not run fossil-free on HVO, although from the same day they could do so by going to the nearest gas station and refueling HVO. The government can control its authorities. Thankfully, the government can rule Sweden. In owner directives and regulatory letters to state-owned companies, the government can say that it should actively contribute to the vehicle transition. I visited a company – not Volvo – that sells light trucks. They told me that this development is now taking place very quickly. Crafters will be able to drive even heavy things in their cars, only society fixes the charging infrastructure. That's what's so important. I would say that industry is well ahead of policy in this area as electric vehicles are now being actively developed globally to a large extent. Sveaskog, which according to the Swedish Transport Agency and the Swedish Parliament's investigation service had 807 vehicles in 2019, has zero vehicles with possible electric drive. Is the Government happy with that? Does the Government think that it is going ahead and showing the way forward when the state's own companies have zero electric vehicles? The state-owned rental company Arento has nearly 3 000 cars. Of them, about a hundred – exactly 121, in fact – have the possibility of electric power. Is the Government happy with that? Does the Government think that the state is a good example?
i-da78c7bb4140273a-51	Mr President, I would like to Together, the authorities have bought only 1.2 per cent electric passenger cars. This is embarrassing to say the least, especially when we have seen since 2018 how the secondary value of diesel cars has fallen because the government has made tough demands. Many families have had to bear that cost. Then it is even more frightening that the government itself does not take responsibility and dance according to its own pipe. More than 1 percent, Minister Isabella Lövin. Let it blend in properly! We made it clear early that we do not want to contribute to the value of the second largest investment of many families. If we are to have people with us in environmental policy, they must feel that the policy is long-term and can be trusted. With this revelation, we can now see that the government's formulation of environmental policy, for which the Environment Party's Minister for the Environment is at the forefront, is ridiculous. I think there are many with me who feel cheated by this policy. The climate issue is one of Moderate's most important and priority issues. The Moderates represent an ambitious climate policy to achieve the long-term climate target of net zero emissions by 2045. However, it also places high demands on the effectiveness of the measures. BONUS – the malus system has been criticised by experts for not leading to an effective reduction in emissions. We need to review the bonus – the Malus system and pursue a more effective climate policy so that emissions are reduced faster. 1.2% instead of 100% is certainly not approved, Minister of the Environment Lövin! How will the Minister act to achieve his own climate goals? It's not done by 1% electric cars anyway.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-57	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your further response and questions. We are in a great transformation of society as a whole. We have to get away from the fossil fuels. That a moderate Member claims that the climate issue is one of the party's priorities when, at the same time, in your shadow budget, you go forward with reducing petrol and diesel taxes and spending 6-7 billion of taxpayers' money on making it cheaper to release, I would call ridiculous. We have introduced a bonus – Malus system that entered into force on 1 July 2018. This had a major impact on the sale of new cars already in the last half of 2018. When we look at the final figures for 2019, we will see a significant increase in the number of rechargeable cars and electric cars. I cannot fully vouch for the figures, but in December it was about 15 – 16 per cent that were rechargeable cars of new car sales. Then you can hardly say that it has had no effect. I regret that we have not been able to come up more quickly with an environmental car definition that more clearly governs our authorities' purchases, and I would like to point out once again that the figures that Members claim are for 2018 is for 2017. We can check it afterwards. I understand you have a source, but the department has checked and that's not true. Mistakes can be made. We are seeing a rapid shift in private sales, but, of course, we need to ensure that our authorities quickly find out what is an environmental car. From 1 March, it will be clear that this is the same definition as for a bonus car within the bonus – the malus system, i.e. a maximum of 70 grams of emissions per kilometre. It is a most significant tightening up from the definition introduced by the Alliance of 120 grams, which was also weight-based. Marléne Lund Kopparklint says we punish ordinary people. That is hardly true, because we are introducing a bonus of up to SEK 60 000 for new cars. We are introducing a change of fuel that means that all people who have a car and as tanks are involved in the conversion. We are forcing a higher level of renewable fuels into petrol and diesel, which is one way of making it easier for everyone to be able to participate in the changeover. We will also look at a conversion aid for those who have a petrol or diesel car so that you can convert to gas or electricity or to drive 100% renewable in their existing car. Everyone should be able to be part of this transition. As far as environmental car zones are concerned, we also have other interests to take into account in our inner cities. At Hornsgatan in Stockholm we have had air quality measurements that are absolutely not acceptable to the families with children who live there. This is a health problem. The possibility for cities to set up environmental car zones in certain limited areas of our cities is hardly to ban more than 1 million diesel cars, as the honourable Member claims. It's pretty laughable. Then I would like to say that I am not satisfied that state-owned companies do not have a higher proportion of electric cars. However, it may be that they think renewablely.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-66	Mr President, I would like to I guess it's a good thing we're not in agreement. The Government and the Green Party say one thing, namely that others should change and make efforts, but it does not apply to the question that the government really owns itself, i.e. to tell their state activities, in regulatory letters and in owner directives, that they should, for example, drive electric cars. Imagine what it would mean for the changeover if the government had bought 23 000 electric cars! It had perhaps been discovered that, for example, newspaper service in my county Gävleborg would say that it is a bit difficult to drive an electric car in Hälsingland, because there are not so many charging places. By then even the state might have discovered that there must be a charging infrastructure in order to have newspaper delivery in Hälsingland's hinterland. It is clear that it is easy to see the world in a certain way, or drive heavy stones, when you live on Södermalm or in central Stockholm and may be close to a Tesla charger. But now, as I said, there is a good car park on its way in that also allows craftsmen to set an example. According to the Swedish Transport Agency and the Swedish Parliament's investigation service, Sveaskog has 807 vehicles in 2019, but n oll vehicles with possible electric drive – zero! After five years with the Environmental Party in the government, with countless debate articles that we are going to change the vehicle fleet and that Sweden should be an example, the government's own authority has zero electric vehicles. This list is a real shame list based on how the government has not run its government agencies and companies. One of Sweden's largest car rental companies, unfortunately state-owned, has 121 vehicles with possible electric drive of 2,872 cars, if we are going to use exact figures. That's not going ahead. It's not showing the way forward. That is to shame others and to act wrongly yourself.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-71	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lars Beckman for the supplementary questions. I would really like to point out that per capita sales of electric cars are higher in some of our sparsely populated areas than they are in the inner city of Stockholm. To find charging possibilities if you live in Jämtland, for example, is good – there is something called Green Highway – but in Stockholm's inner city it is more difficult both to find parking spaces and to own a car than it is in the countryside. This should also be the case because there is public transport in our big cities. The government has invested an enormous amount of money in expanding the charging infrastructure. As I mentioned earlier, in the climate action plan there is to ensure that there is charging infrastructure where there are white spots along our major roads. We will set up an electrification commission to address, among other things, the electrification of heavy road traffic. There is a huge amount of work going on right now. We need to work together with the private sector and the car industry, and that is exactly what we are doing. We need to move in step so that there is a change that goes as fast as it needs to be. From 1 March onwards, it will be clear what is the environmental car definition, and it will apply to all state authorities. The environmental car definition is also used as a model for companies and municipalities. BONUS-malus requirements and preferential taxation govern companies, and here we are going to tighten up both parts of the mandate and ensure that there is a clear transition for both the private sector and state enterprises and, of course, for our authorities.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-75	Mr President, I would like to Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to stop the mobile workshops and the mobile filling stations. At the outset, I would like to say that I share the interpeller's view that it is important that environmentally hazardous substances do not end up in nature because of the type of mobile activity in question. Mobile activities of this kind are subject to the requirements of the Environmental Code to, for example, carry out the protective measures, comply with the restrictions and take the precautions necessary to prevent, prevent or prevent any harm or inconvenience to human health or the environment. The Environmental Code also requires that everyone who carries out an activity or takes action is obliged to acquire the knowledge needed to protect human health or the environment from harm or inconvenience. This implies, among other things, an obligation to control their activities in order to prevent damage to the environment. A prerequisite for compliance with the requirements of the environmental code is that the operations are carried out in such a way that any spillage is not spread to surrounding land, receiving water or sewage networks, which as a starting point means that the operations should be carried out in a workshop. Even if mobile activities of this type are not subject to notification or authorisation requirements under the Environmental Code, the supervisory authority may decide on an order for action or prohibit the activity in the event of non-compliance with the environmental code. Such injunctions or prohibitions may be combined with periodic penalty payments. The supervisory authority, which in these cases is the municipal board, shall also report infringements to the police or prosecutor if there is a suspicion of a crime. It is important here that all responsible authorities cooperate closely and effectively. In the light of the extensive regulation in this area and the possibilities for the regulatory authority, police and prosecutors to intervene, the government is currently not planning to review environmental legislation.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-81	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer from Minister Lövin. The previous debate was interesting given that there is work to be done on conversion, electrifying fleets and so on. But other things are also happening in our society that are very serious. I myself come from the haulage industry – I have worked there for many years – and I have also worked with the traffic police, carried out checks on the road and followed developments. My question was about mobile workshops, such as mobile tyre workshops and tow trucks, which do not meet the requirements. That is a serious problem. They are located in parking spaces at shopping malls and along roads and do major repairs. These vehicles drive in Sweden under what is called cabotage rules, but they do not comply with the regulations. These activities are so established in the country that they have to have access to workshops, but they cannot afford to drive into the workshops that exist in Sweden. Instead, they bring mobile tyre workshops and their own tow vehicles, and that is how the operation takes place under the sky – in the Blue Hall, as they say. This is an interesting situation. I have criticised the government several times for not doing enough to stop the illegal traffic in the country. One can amuse oneself with what is stated in the European Parliament's regulation on cabotage and the regulatory framework governing that traffic. If you look at Regulation 1072 under the heading, and the definitions set out in Article 2, it says that it is a cabotage transport operation: professional, temporary domestic transport in a host Member State in accordance with this Regulation. I have, of course, cleaned up a lot of text, otherwise we would have been standing here all day, but Article 8 states that every carrier engaged in the occupation of road haulage operator holding a Community licence – – – should be entitled, under the conditions laid down in this chapter, to carry out cabotage operations. ..................................................... The whole regulatory framework is being seriously violated in order to be able to supply non-compliant transport. It is simply like creating an infrastructure alongside. Anyone who has been in contact with these issues knows that a few deciliters of diesel oil in a water supply is enough for it to be ruined. Here you come with 4 000 liters in plastic canisters to supply the vehicles with fuel. We have pointed this out several times to the government, but nothing is happening. They talk beautifully about lifting freight transport from road to rail, but neither Swedish road hauliers with a great environmental ambition nor the Swedish rail companies that carry out freight transport can compete with the business. The consequences will be lost transport for both Swedish haulage companies and the railways. We will never achieve the conversion targets unless something is done. It is quite clear that the government does not understand the link between cause and consequence, and it is obvious that it does not understand what is happening. I would like to hear from the Government what the idea is to really achieve the objectives of environmentally friendly transport in the country.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-89	Mr President, I would like to I thank Thomas Morell for raising a very important issue. The government believes that order and order are extremely important. We also believe that it is extremely important to achieve the climate targets, to achieve the environmental objectives and to adhere to our environmental legislation. The government has taken a series of measures to create order and improve compliance. Among other things, we have given a commission to the Police Authority in the regulatory letter to combat illegal cabotage operations. We have also contributed SEK 100 million for the years 2017 – 2020 to combat unfair competition and illegal cabotage, which has resulted in 400 police officers and police car inspectors being further trained to improve the control of heavy goods vehicles on the road. But we believe that we need to do more. Therefore, in October, the Government set up an investigation to review the way in which road traffic control activities are carried out and propose improvement measures for more people to comply with the rules in this area. The investigation shall also propose a comprehensive control activity with more effective roadside checks. Already today, we have significantly increased both our skills and our activities through, among other things, flying checks on roads and better training for car inspectors and police officers. On the environmental side, municipalities are responsible for supervision. At local and regional level, efforts are being made to improve cooperation between different authorities to tackle this type of environmental crime, which is also linked to other crimes. We have also looked at the possibilities of sanctions. The investigation shall propose variations of penalties, i.e. changes of penalties to fines. This will be reported in November 2020. So much is being done on the part of the government, and the government is aware of the problems and the absolute determination to tackle unfair competition. It is about both working conditions and environmental compliance and environmental considerations. Of course, we must also ensure that we can reward environmentally sustainable transport. I think that is an important point that Thomas Morell points out. It is clear that illegal cabotage, which is cheap due to poor conditions and conditions, competes, for example, on rail freight, which may cost something more but is much more environmentally sustainable in the long run. Having said that, the issue is very topical. The government is following it, an investigation has been set up and we are also working with other means to benefit those who move goods to, among other things, rail through ecobonus.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-99	Mr President, I would like to The government says there's a lot going on. I'd like to say that there's a lot of talk. Of the SEK 100 million allocated to the Police Authority – 25 million over four years will be 100 million – only 2.6 million can be reported that have been allocated to cabotage controls. The rest disappeared into the black box of the agency, and we don't know where they went there. It is absolutely right that 400 people attended the training. The crux was that a large part of them were investigators, i.e. those who are in prison – in the sense that they work indoors. They're not out on the road. This does not mean that we can get to what is troubling. It has been possible to start operations in this country and work completely undisturbed even though it is contrary to the regulations. The picture I'm showing the government was taken last weekend. This is certainly not a temporary activity. It's a pitch, where you have your vehicles. The next picture is taken in a parking lot, where you repair clutches and brakes on heavy vehicles and change tires. There is nothing here to protect if something leaks out, but this happens on a completely open and vulnerable surface. This picture shows one of the mobile tyre workshops that are going around changing tires outside. So everything is done in an open environment. Here is a picture of 4,000 liters of diesel in containers that are loose inside a trailer. What happens if it leaks out? This happens daily, and it is like nothing is done to get at it. There are many hauliers in Sweden who would gladly switch to more environmentally friendly transport if they were able to compete on healthy conditions. Instead, that possibility is rejected. The possibility of lifting freight transport to rail is also being excluded. There are 36 trailers from Europe every day. They are lifted off there, and instead there are tractors coming from Bulgaria and pulling them up to Stockholm. You don't drive the train up here because it's too expensive. It will be very strange if it becomes cheaper to set off a trailer on the ground and let a tow truck pull such a trailer up to Stockholm. There are 36 wagons with a pair of trailers on each – there are 72 tractors instead of a locomotive that pulls the train up to Stockholm. I can't get that math together if you talk about improving our environment. I can't get it together. It would be interesting to hear what the Government has ideas on how to get to this. I have an answer, and I am happy to share it with the Minister.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-109	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Thomas Morell, for in-depth questions – and picture display! This is something that I absolutely cannot judge from what the honourable Member is showing here, but it goes without saying that the environmental legislation and the environmental code rules apply to all activities in Sweden. If something is done that harms the environment, such as the release of diesel or other harmful substances into the environment, it is not legal. We have a supervisory authority for that. It is not true, as the honourable Member says, that nothing has been done. I have explained what has been done. Important resources have been added to the Police Authority and training activities, and there is an investigation under way to come up with more suggestions on how we can further improve control activities. I believe that this is of the utmost importance for environmental reasons but also for reasons of competition. Those with decent transport should be rewarded and not excluded by unfair and, in many cases, illegal competition. As regards how we can move more goods to the railway, I would like to point out to Thomas Morell, who represents the Swedish Democrats, that if we are to have space on our tracks for more goods and more passenger traffic, we need to build new main roads. I note that the Swedish Democrats do not support the construction of high-speed rail. The high-speed railway is about us being able to move a whole lot of passenger traffic to one track and make space on the other track for more freight and more regional traffic and that we should also be able to get more efficiency in how to maintain and repair tracks without stopping. We simply do not have the capacity today to increase traffic as much as we would need to meet climate targets. So there I have a question back to the honourable Member – why the Swedish Democrats do not support the construction of new main roads. We simply need to expand capacity so that we have the opportunity to move more goods. Then I also think that those who buy goods can feel more confident that the deliveries will be on time. This is a big investment for Sweden, and it is nothing that will be realized in five or ten years, but we need to think long-term if we are going to make the transition. Then there are not only immediate problems here and now we need to think about, but we need to raise our eyes and do what will be the infrastructure investment of the century for Sweden. When the main roads were built every one hundred years ago, so we really need to see that we have a completely different transport needs and a completely different population today. In addition, my reply to the honourable Member is that the investigation that has been set up will report a sub-mission on the exchange of sanctions, penalties and fines in November 2020. Otherwise, the assignment shall be presented on 1 March 2021. The police are already tasked with carrying out flying checks and increasing the work of controlling these transports.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-117	Mr President, I would like to I now come with a reading tip: Please read our exercise! No, we do not want high-speed trains, but we do want to expand other parts of the railway to make it work better and also be able to lift goods onto the railway. These are considerably faster measures than spending money on a high-speed track. It will be very beautiful words when the Government talks about what the government does, but there will be no workshop of it. I have daily contact with my old police colleagues. It's going in the opposite direction. The money that has been added does not come out and make an impact. It's kind of like buying medicine for a sick patient and throwing the medicine into the cupboard; the patient doesn't get it. We are also seeing developments on the road that are going in the opposite direction. We do not fill the vehicles that transport goods on the road. Instead, goods are transferred to three-and-a-half-tonners, i.e. cars with a weight of up to three-and-a-half tons, which are driven with overload. I have an article here that says 388 percent. We thought that was a lot when the article came, but today cars are being picked up with 500 percent overload. The rules on driving and rest times and traffic permits are then circumvented by lifting goods into small cars like this. They go like wasps around the big industries in Sweden instead of the goods being run on full-sized combinations. According to another article, the police themselves talk about four overloaded 3, 5-tonnes– the aquarium fishery continues. This is what the police say, in direct contrast to what the Government says. We have a trend that goes in the opposite direction to what is needed to achieve a better environment. Now I want an answer from the Minister.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-122	Mr President, I would like to I think I have been very clear in my answer. The government takes this issue very seriously. We've added resources to the police department. 400 police and car inspectors have been trained to acquire specific skills in these matters. Flying inspections have been commissioned. We have set up an investigation that will report its sub-missions in October and then in March next year. We have also looked at the possibilities of sanctions. On the environmental issue, cooperation between regulators and other authorities is ongoing in order to better address this. I agree with Thomas Morell's outrage that there can be illegal activity on our roads; it should not. The government takes this issue very seriously. I can add that this issue is also at European level. The EU Mobility Package, which aims to ensure fair competition, also introduces smart tachographs to ensure more effective controls on, among other things, cabotage and posting rules. Coreper approved the agreement on 20 December, so formal adoption seems to be underway in spring 2020. In this way, it will be considerably easier to follow the riders and carry out checks when necessary. This is a positive step forward, because these activities should not exist and should definitely be combated.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-125	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Damsgaard has asked me what initiatives I have taken to ensure that the Prison Service in its local planning should take into account not only what is effective in its own operations but also what is effective for the judiciary as a whole. Furthermore, Mikael Damsgaard has asked how I follow up on the fact that the detention centre is designed in such a way that it promotes effective cooperation with the other judicial authorities. Correctional services are an important part of the legal chain, and the recent year's massive population increase in detention centres and in prisons has posed a major challenge to the Agency. In order to give the agency the opportunity to increase the number of places, the government has therefore proposed that the funds allocated by the Prison Service be allocated to significant resources in the coming years. As early as 2019, the agency received a total of SEK 535 million in addition to the spring and autumn change budget, and an additional SEK 130 million will be added this year. For 2021 and 2022, additional contributions of SEK 569 million and SEK 729 million are expected for the agency to continue the expansion and thus meet the needs. The government continues its efforts to combat crime and the causes of crime. Criminal justice reforms and the expected increase in efficiency in the rest of the legal chain will affect the occupancy and place requirements of the Prison Service. For this reason, the capacity of the Prison Service must be expanded. This should be done quickly, safely, efficiently and with a high degree of flexibility. The Prison Service's instructions state that the detention organisation should be designed in such a way as to promote effective cooperation with the other judicial authorities. This means, among other things, that the Prison Service must have the capacity to receive detainees during a criminal investigation. This may mean that the Prison Service makes the assessment that the fastest and most effective solution is to increase the number of places at an already existing facility. The Correctional Service operates throughout the country, from Ystad in the south to Haparanda in the north. I know that an important starting point for the agency is that detention centres, prisons and care centres are located where the activity is needed and where there are sufficient conditions for carrying out an activity adapted to the needs. In October 2019, the Government commissioned the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the Swedish National Courts Authority and the Swedish Criminal Service to assess future operational volumes in the legal chain in collaboration and with the support of the Swedish Crime Prevention Council. The purpose of this mission is for the authorities to produce as well-founded a basis as possible for how the volumes of activities in the central parts of the criminal proceedings are expected to develop and what this may mean for the authorities' resource needs. The mission, which is presented in connection with the budget bases at the beginning of March, will also contribute to a better understanding of how the authorities in the legal chain form part of a wider whole. It is the Prison Service that is responsible for its local provision within the legal and financial framework that the Riksdag and the Government decide. However, the Government closely monitors the prevalence development of the Correctional Service and how the agency plans for the future site expansion. The agency has therefore been commissioned to present a plan for the long-term site development in prisons and detention centres. As regards Västerås, the Prison Service has assessed that the fastest and most cost-effective solution to replace closed custody is a permanent detention facility in connection with Salberga. This does not exclude a detention centre in Västerås. Correctional services continue to investigate the conditions for a detention facility in Västerås in consultation with the Police Authority.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-133	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your answer. We almost daily share reports of shootings and explosions in Swedish cities. What had previously been a headline for several days now often becomes just one item in the paper. Serious violence has developed into a new normal situation in Sweden. However, these spectacular acts are only the tip of the iceberg. To break the gangs, the police are forced to make tough priorities. At the same time as the police devote considerable resources to Operation Rimfrost, for example, there is a police shortage in Sweden. The head of the Swedish Police has recently warned that the police's necessary focus on breaking the spiral of violence is likely to impair the investigation results in other areas. In plain language, this means that reports of robbery against young people, housing offences and much more are being piled up. Against this background, it is absolutely crucial that all police resources can be used in the best possible way. Last year, the Swedish National Audit Office submitted an audit report on the governance of the justice chain. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that the governance of the justice chain does not take sufficient account of the consequences and effectiveness of the entire legal chain. Mr President, I would like to In Västerås, custody was closed four years ago. This means that detained persons instead need to be placed in other cities, such as Uppsala, Örebro and sometimes even Karlstad. It is four years that have meant considerable efforts for the police in Västmanland because the transport of prisoners takes great police resources. A lot of time is also spent on trips that investigators need to make during interrogations or to monitor visits to detainees with restrictions. In addition, there are large costs for planning and administering the trips. In practice, this means that an investigator may have to set aside half a working day to conduct a 30-minute hearing. The same applies to lawyers who may be required to attend the hearings. Overall, the current situation means that valuable police resources that should be used to fight crime are used instead for travel and administration. A coherent judicial centre in Västerås would help to bring the judiciary closer together and make more efficient use of the overall resources. The police have grown out of the police house in Västerås, and for several years planning has been ongoing for a new police house to be completed by 2024. Just before Christmas it was also clear where the new police station in Västerås will be located. However, there is still no decision to set up a detention centre in Västerås. The possibility of creating a judicial centre where police, prosecutors and prisons gather in central Västerås near Västmanland District Court risks being delayed indefinitely. Mr President, I would like to The current situation is unsustainable, and a solution to the detention issue in Västerås needs to be put in place. It is the government that governs the authorities, and ultimately it is the government's responsibility that the entire judicial system works effectively and that decisions on the detention issue in Västerås are not characterized by the drainpipe thinking between the authorities. My supplementary question is: In what way can Morgan Johansson guarantee that the Prison Service has a court-spoken perspective when making decisions about the detention centre in Västerås?
i-da78c7bb4140273a-144	Mr President, I would like to Correctional services have a court-spoken perspective in all decisions they make. But then it is a question of using resources efficiently. Major violence has increased in the criminal circles with shootings and blasts. However, there has been no general increase in violence in Sweden. The risk of being killed in Sweden was actually greater 30 years ago than today. We must use every means to stop the increasing violence in criminal circles. These include police training, which Mikael Damsgaard touched on. We are training three times as many police officers as the Moderates did, and we are putting more resources than ever into the police. Right now there are more employees in the police organization than ever before, well over 32,000. In 2018, 9 600 prison years were imposed in Sweden, the so-called collected penalty mass. This is the highest in almost ten years and an increase of 20 per cent since 2015. It is an example of how our actions have been effective. It is a result of increased penalties for violent, drug, arms and a wide range of other crimes. It is also about the fact that the investments in the police have given a more effective police service. The new organization is more effective than the old one, and more resources now allow more ready-made investigations to be delivered to prosecutors. This, of course, has consequences throughout the judiciary, and so we are putting more money into the courts. It also has consequential effects on the prison services. There is almost a hundred percent occupancy in the institutions and about 95 percent occupancy in the detention centres, and there are bunk beds in Kumla to cope with the occupancy. It is a positive development in the sense that people who previously ran around town with guns are now in prison. A major and important task of this term of office is to continue to expand the prison system. There is a need for about 500 more detention centres and about 800 more detention centres by 2025. But the importance of this seems not to have been understood by the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. When last autumn you had the opportunity to push through your budget, you were underfunded the Prison Service. The Correctional Service had requested SEK 395 million but received SEK 85 million from the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. The first thing I had to do in January 2019 was to arrange for new money for the Prison Service, a total of over half a billion for 2019 in the spring change budget and in the autumn change budget. My questions to Mikael Damsgaard are: If Mikael Damsgaard wants a detention centre in Västerås, why did you subsidize the Prison Service when you were able to push your budget through? If Mikael Damsgaard wants a detention centre in Västerås, why is it not mentioned in one word in the Moderate Budget Movement? Could it be that, in the end, the Moderates will do what the Moderates always do, namely allow tax cuts to take precedence over the necessary investments in, among other things, this area? We will continue planning for expansion. Now we're building Salberga because it's going faster. We need 50 new places there by 2022. I am not ruling out a legal centre in Västerås, but it will take longer to get it in place. However, we will have to have a dialogue with the Prison Service on this, and in order to resolve it we must have resources at our disposal.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-156	Mr President, I would like to It is well known that the Moderates spend considerably more resources on the judiciary than the government does. In the M-KD budget for 2019, the Prison Service received 250 million more than in the transitional budget that had otherwise entered into force. This year we spend 150 million more on the Prison Service than the government does. It's a fact. As far as the holding in Salberga is concerned, it is probably true that in the short term it is the fastest solution to deal with the emergency situation. I have visited the Salberga prison and understand that the new detention centre is being built there with flexible detention centres that can be adapted to different needs. Back to the management of the justice chain. As I mentioned in my previous speech, the Swedish National Audit Office last year submitted an audit report on the governance of the justice chain. It notes that the governance of the justice chain does not take sufficient account of the impact and effectiveness of the whole legal chain. For example, it is a matter of the fact that the justice chain perspective is not prominent in the government's governance of the authorities, nor is it prominent in the distribution of resources between and within the authorities. In the interpellation response, the Government refers to the Prison Service's instruction stating that the detention organisation should be designed in such a way as to promote effective cooperation with the other judicial authorities. Furthermore, the instruction, which is not in the reply, states that a location of detention facilities facilitating this cooperation should be sought. It is, of course, a good thing that this instruction exists, and decisions in this part were made by the Alliance Government just before the 2014 elections. However, the interpellation response does not at all show how Morgan Johansson follows up on the fact that the Prison Service works after the instruction decided in 2014. The lack of a holistic perspective in the governance of the justice chain will also be evident in the Prison Service's regulation letter for 2020. Under the section on the location capacity of the Correctional Service, it is stated that the agency's location capacity should be planned so that there is a high degree of flexibility that takes its starting point in the needs of its operations and with a strong focus on resource efficiency. The justice chain perspective is not mentioned at all in the regulation letter, and the focus is entirely on the internal efficiency of the Prison Service. It was good that last October the government commissioned a number of judicial authorities to assess future levels of activity in the justice chain. However, it is remarkable that such a decision comes only after the Swedish National Audit Office has identified major shortcomings in the justice chain perspective in the governance of and the allocation of resources to the authorities. It is clear that the lack of governance of the justice chain risks leading to the creation of a judicial centre in Västerås, where police, prosecutors and prisons gather close to Västmanland District Court, risk being delayed indefinitely.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-166	Mr President, I would like to Just to be clear: The expansion we are now making at Salberga to cope with the detention centres that we need to obtain does not exclude a future investment in Västerås, but we must have the expansion in Salberga so that we can meet the short-term needs we have until 2022. As far as Västerås is concerned, we will see if we can provide the necessary resources, but it is an investment that, if it is to be made, takes some time. I cannot wait for a legal centre in Västerås, because I must have places as soon as possible. These things are not mutually exclusive. What I said was that the Moderates have a weak position in this debate, Mikael Damsgaard. Every time you get an opportunity to influence the budgets, you underfinance the Prison Service. As I said: In the autumn of 2018, we were a transitional government, and I could not make any investments. Indeed, a transitional government must not do so. But you could have made whatever bets you wanted. There were no formal reasons not to do so. You knew that the Prison Service was facing major resource needs, with deficits exceeding almost 10% of their budget. You knew there were big holes to fill. You knew they had requested SEK 395 million, but you came with SEK 85 million. That is exactly what I am pointing out. The first thing I had to do when I took office was try to correct the trouble you had put us in. First we had to enter 300 million in the spring amending budget and then another 200 million in the autumn amending budget. We spent a total of half a billion so that the Correctional Service could solve its task. We have a lot of investment ahead of us. As I said, this will be one of the major issues during the term of office. The Correctional Service estimates that approximately 1 300 more places are needed in detention centres and prisons until 2025. We go in with a lot of money in the coming years: a total of over SEK 700 million. We will have to continue to develop this and ensure that we resource the Prison Service in such a way that they can do their job, of course in cooperation with the police. I know that there is now much better cooperation at the highest level between the police and the penitentiary than before, and they are trying to meet each other's needs. When it comes to the Prison Service, it is not only a matter of lack of space, but also of very large maintenance needs. We have prisons from the 1840s. They look better now than they did then, but the premises are not adapted to modern prison care. We have institutions that have been shut down for various reasons. One such example is Västerås, which had to turn off fire safety reasons in 2015. If my representatives had made sure to meet the renovation needs and maintenance, they might not have had to close. It was the same with a jail in Halmstad, where it was so poor that people could escape through the windows. That's why they had to close, too. It is therefore not only a lack of space, but also a great need for renovation. If the Moderates can try to get out of the situation that they sometimes end up in, i.e. that tax cuts constantly go ahead of investment, it will be easier to pursue policy in the future. Everyone should be convinced that the government will continue to make major efforts in the Prison Service. This will also be noticed in Västerås.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-174	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with Morgan Johansson on the need to build in Salberga here and now. This need exists, and Salberga is strategically located between the major cities in Central Sweden, as a complement to the detention centres in these cities. But as I said, this does not remove the need to create a detention centre in Västerås. Four years have passed since the prison was closed, with major consequences for the police in Västmanland. It is several year-olds who are used only for transport and administration because of this. As I said earlier, the consequence is that there is no detention facility in Västerås that an interrogation of 30 minutes can take half a day to conduct for an investigator. This means that valuable police resources, which should be used to combat crime, are used instead for travel and administration. We have an unsustainable situation and we need a solution to the detention issue on the ground. There are opportunities to create a coherent legal centre in Västerås where police, prosecutors and prisons gather close to the district court in connection with the construction of a new police house, which will be completed in 2024. This would improve the coherence of the judiciary and allow for more efficient use of the overall resources. However, there is still a lack of decision to set up a detention centre in Västerås, and there is a risk that it will be postponed indefinitely. I had hoped to be able to come home to Västerås this weekend with a positive message that there will be a jail there. We are still waiting, and we hope it will. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for your reply so far, and I hope that we can eventually get a decision on a detention centre in Västerås.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-180	Mr President, I would like to Politics works in the way that if you want something, you have to be prepared to finance it. This is what I pointed out, Mikael Damsgaard. You had a chance in the 2018 budget to finance the Prison Service. But you didn't, but you greatly underfunded the Prison Service. Mikael Damsgaard would have had a stronger position in this debate if he had raised a budget motion saying that the Moderates want a detention centre in Västerås, but there is not a single word in the Moderates' budget movement on this. I cannot interpret this in any other way than that Mikael Damsgaard has not got this demand through in the internal negotiations on the budgetary motion. Of course, it would have been easier to pass the debate if everyone knew that this is something that the Moderates are pushing, but that is not the case, at least not in the budget motion. To give some perspective, I can say that there are 40 miles between Salberga and Västerås. The reason we are expanding in Salberga is that we have an existing facility there. You can build inside the walls or on the land that already exists. This makes it much faster, and it also gets cheaper. This investment, which is due to be completed in 2022, does not exclude that we can create a legal centre also in Västerås, but it will have to be a later issue and a dialogue that we will have to conduct with the Prison Service. Once again, it is essential that we have the resources that are needed in the future. Our ambition is for us to continue to expand the prison system, and that will be one of the major tasks ahead of this term of office. As I said, this will also be noticed in Västerås.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-184	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me what measures I and the government will take to ensure that the judicial system can help to meet children's needs and the right of association with both parents. Children's right to contact and social relations with both parents is important and something that society must work actively to satisfy. However, it is the best interests of the child that should be decisive. Children's need and right to security must always go first. The provision on arbitrariness with children is directed against unauthorised interference with or abuse of custody of children and does not aim to protect access rights as such. The criminal liability of joint custody was extended on 1 July 2014 from a mere abduction of the child to now covering all divorces, i.e. even unlawful withholds. The provision of arbitrariness with children primarily protects custody and the right and obligation of guardians to decide on matters relating to the child's personal affairs. Keeping a child inaccessible to a guardian can be assessed as arbitrariness with a child, if the intention has been to permanently separate the child from the guardian. However, the delay in handing over or returning a child, or the fact that on certain occasions the child is not left for visitation or accommodation at all, does not simply mean that it is a criminal separation. On the other hand, in some cases such action may be a reason for changing custody, housing or association in a family case. Prosecutors deal with approximately 1,500 crimes per year about arbitrariness with children, and about 30 cases are brought each year. When it was introduced, it was justified by the fact that the circumstances of the offence may sometimes be such that prosecution by the public prosecutor would constitute an unwarranted intervention in private circumstances. In 2014, the Prosecutor's Office reviewed the application of the special prosecution review rule and concluded that the application was largely correct. The Prosecution Authority has subsequently also developed a legal office that aims to provide prosecutors with guidance and support in dealing with cases of arbitrariness with children. In such cases, the question must be asked which means and methods are most appropriate to ensure that the best interests of the child are met and come first when parents cannot agree and find consensus solutions around their children. In addition to criminal law, there are, as I said, tools in the family law framework for custody, housing and social relations to deal with such situations. If a parent fails to comply with the decision, there is an opportunity to apply for enforcement. A decision on enforcement may be accompanied by a penalty payment and, in the final analysis, it may be decided that the child is to be taken. Added to this are the tools available in social services to deal with parental conflicts and other family law problems. I believe that it is primarily at that end that issues relating to children's rights of contact with both their parents should be dealt with, not through increased criminalisation.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-190	Mr President, I would like to I thank Morgan Johansson for his answer. I should like to begin by saying that Morgan Johansson and I have very different starting values on this issue. For me, it's about the child's right to his parents. It is that right that we must stand up for and defend. That right cannot be based on the parent's doing the right thing. It must be based on the child and the child's need for both his or her parents. However, I can see that Morgan Johansson basically only talks about what a parent can do to meet his child. There are quite a few reports of arbitrariness with children, but few lead to prosecution, just as Morgan Johansson previously reported. Only 2 cases out of 100 lead to prosecution, which is very low. This indicates either that there is unnecessary reporting or that there is some other problem with the law. What is perhaps even worse than this low number is that there is probably a dark number of parents who do not have the strength to fight with authorities or do not think it is worthwhile. In fact, it is very rarely worthwhile as a father trying to get a right in a custody dispute with the rules that apply today. The child perspective means that the child's right to the parents should be protected. Morgan Johansson claims he stands up for this. We were just told that the best interests of the child should be crucial. But why, then, is it the excluded parent who should act and demand to see his child by execution? If Morgan Johansson and the government really are serious about the child's right to his or her parents being protected, is it not the authorities who will fight for the child's right to meet both his or her parents and protect this right? The Convention on the Rights of the Child also gives the child the right to family life, and it indirectly grants the right to the parents. Should the child not demand enforcement in order to see his or her father, or does the government believe that the child's best interests are that the child himself should request this? How does the government believe that it should in practice be done for a child to bring an action if the child wants to see his or her father when the excluded parent does not? I would like to have a longer explanation for that. Someone else can actually report arbitrariness with children. It doesn't have to be the excluded parent. It may be someone else who is close to the child who sees that the child suffers from not seeing his or her parent, if in that case a mother has taken the child and moved away far away. Applying for enforcement – if granted, it may be accompanied by a penalty payment, and ultimately it can be decided that the child should be taken back – is hardly something that will go very quickly. Throughout the time that this happens, before a decision is reached that the child should actually be taken, the child is entirely in the hands of one parent and does not have access to the other parent. I do not see this living up to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the right of the child to both his or her parents. Is it really the interests of the child that Morgan Johansson represents when he does not want a more powerful intervention from society?
i-da78c7bb4140273a-199	Mr President, I would like to I would say that it is exactly the opposite and that it is I who stands for the child's right to the parents, while Mikael Eskilandersson stands for the father's right to the child. He heard in his speech that it was only about the father's perspective. It wasn't a word about the mother's perspective. If you have been in the vicinity of such cases, you can see that there are always two sides that you have to take into account. But Mikael Eskilandersson and SD see only the interests of fathers and their perspectives. I also know that from the other side there may be some discussion about what has preceded, for example, a separation. The contacts I have with women's shelters, among other things, mean that I get that picture also when it comes to the situation that mothers in different situations can end up in. It should be remembered that in some of these conflicts there may be situations where the father has not behaved very well but, on the contrary, has behaved really badly. So what I'm saying is that you actually have to look at both sides, both the mother's and the father's side. But what is most important is the right of the child to his or her parents, not the right of the parents to the child. Therefore, the courts always rely on the child's right, which is the correct thing. The second difference that I understand is that Mikael Eskilandersson is not content with the civil law elements that exist in this area, but here is the criminal law to be applied. You're supposed to judge people and put people in jail. I see that there are strong opportunities in civil matters to move forward if cooperation does not work properly. If there is a judgment at the bottom, one parent may seek enforcement in respect of the right of access. If you do not accept this, it may ultimately be a matter of police pick-up, even if it is, of course, to be applied only in extremely extreme cases. It is, rather, punitive orders that we are talking about. A fine can amount to SEK 2 000 – 5 000 per time if a parent is not given the opportunity to exercise the right of access that one has. I think that is a rather sharp measure to remedy any problems that may exist. If there is no judgment, one parent may go to court and demand that the child move back if the other parent has moved far away. Of course, sole custody may also be required. When the court then examines this, it is the best interests of the child that should be the most important. In extreme cases you can also use criminal law and then according to the law that exists about arbitrariness with children. What has been the development of these notifications? Is something accelerating? No, actually, it's the other way around. The number of notifications of arbitrariness with children has decreased in recent years. Since 2014, it is a decrease of almost 20 per cent. Perhaps we should also mention this in order to nuance the discussion in the future. My view is that in the vast majority of cases, parents solve this themselves. They get along and look after the child's best interests. Hundreds of thousands of children grow up in contexts where parents have separated. In the vast majority of cases, this is solved between them. However, when there are difficulties in cooperation and when parents are unable to cooperate, we also have legal tools that can be used, and they are, in my opinion, effective.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-209	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that, as usual, Morgan Johansson attributes to me opinions that I do not have, which is more the rule than the exception in these debates. If someone behaves badly and it is a crime, it should of course be investigated by the police, and it should have powerful consequences. However, it is not always a question of someone having actually behaved badly in this case the woman or the child. In that case, of course, it is a completely different matter, and then it is a police matter. When I have debates with Morgan Johansson, I feel that we always return to men's misbehaving towards women, as it is assumed that men are always perpetrators. The fact that I took my father's perspective is of course because it is the most common example. I might as well take an example where the mother is shut out, because there are such examples too, but I chose to take one of the majority examples. It's not because I somehow value the father as more important than the mother, but, on the other hand, I value both parents as important to the child. That I would like to put people in prison is probably to exaggerate a little; on the other hand, I want an intervention from the community that gives the child the right to both their parents, which should be the natural thing. The rules that still apply, because the proposals in the report See the child! drawn on a long bench, often favors those who have kidnapped their own children. Writes that the court regarding custody should take into account how the child has had it in recent times are currently available as a basis, and they make the court feel compelled to award custody to the resident parent even if the child has lived there because of the parent's exclusion from the other parent. Of course, it would be more reasonable for the parent to be disadvantaged by moving and excluding another parent. Rather, I think it would be good if the courts looked at which parent can meet the child's needs for the other parent, and just that type of writing is found in See the child! In the longer term, I think you should look at what the custody part looks like when parents move. You can't stop someone from moving, but in Denmark, for example, there are rules that make the accommodation automatically go over to the remaining parent if someone moves more than 80 miles, I want to remember. Now you should remember that Denmark is a much smaller country than Sweden and that the opportunity to move within Sweden and shut out a parent is hugely greater because you can create a distance that makes it virtually impossible to get there in less than half a day. How the government has treated domestic aviation has not directly made it easier for people to get across Sweden. The Convention on the Rights of the Child gives the child the right to family life, and with it the child must have the right to his or her parents. But as I see it, the government is referring children to asking their father to apply for enforcement. Is it really the government's children's perspective – that children who do not have a parent who can fight the authorities should not be entitled to both their parents either?
i-da78c7bb4140273a-215	Mr President, I would like to The way you express yourself often reveals quite clearly the entrance you have, and my entrance is the child's right to the parents. Mikael Eskilandersson's entrance is the father's right to the child, almost entirely regardless of what has happened. I also claim that we have effective civil law tools, namely that you go to court if it does not work. There we have the possibility of a periodic penalty payment, and it can be a judgment about the parent having to move back or demand sole custody in that situation. Then the court will be based on the best interests of the child, and that will be the guiding principle. No, I think this is about Mikael Eskilandersson's willingness to use criminal law in every situation when, instead, better and more effective results can be achieved by using civil law. I also believe that this is a perspective that unilaterally looks at the rights of the father and does not take into account the situation of the mother. I believe that we must constantly see both sides in this situation.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-217	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to using the justice system and the criminal justice system, we would actually like to lift custody and allow it to involve much more mediation than legal proceedings. Instead, mediation could be used in the way it is used in both Norway and Finland to get parents to agree. I know Morgan Johansson and I don't really have the same input value there. I think that basically all parents should be called into this form of mediation when they move apart, so that they can quickly and smoothly agree on who should actually take care of the child, where the child should live and so on – in order to avoid that there will be processes. In conclusion, I would like to call on Morgan Johansson to implement as soon as possible what the investigation proposes in Se Barn! Then I would like to see more progress also being made in looking at how our neighbours have done in other cases. In fact, they have preceded with very good examples in several areas where it feels like Sweden is far behind. We do not have the conditions for men and women to become parents that both Norway and Finland currently have. There is a much more equal policy in our surrounding countries, and then it is strange that the government in Sweden calls itself feminist. In fact, it is the rights of the child that we should protect.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-219	Mr President, I would like to Almost all international studies show that Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. If you ask some of the women's organisations that work against men's violence against women, for example, which model to choose for these situations, I do not think you get much agreement that these are better models in other countries either. At least the answer is not to go in that direction. Then I have no objection to the increased use of mediation, but I would also like to see it. After all, it is in the proposal from the investigation, and we are working on that proposal. However, in order to resolve such situations, I believe that it is primarily civil law that should be used. There we have effective remedies, and we make sure, as it were, to develop it and use the tools available, for example, when it comes to fines. We are working on the investigation's proposals, and we will see if we will be able to make proposals during this parliamentary term to implement reforms in this area.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-222	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me what concrete measures, in addition to a general programme, the government will take to resolve the difficult situation caused by the crime of entrepreneurship in Sweden. He has also asked me how the government's crime prevention programme with common objectives in all policy areas should be implemented and when it is expected to have a full impact. The government takes a very serious view of crime affecting entrepreneurs and has taken a series of measures to reduce crime and increase security. Sweden should be a safe country to live in, and it is therefore worrying that entrepreneurs are concerned about the risk of being exposed to crime. It is better to see some reductions in corporate crime. Both the number of reported store robberies and shop burglaries have decreased sharply over the past ten years. In order to further intensify the fight against crime in Sweden, the government presented 34 new measures against gang violence last autumn. It is the largest package against gang crime ever in Sweden and includes measures in both the short and long term. The programme includes new tools for authorities as well as tougher penalties and better crime prevention. We are now working intensively to implement these measures. The police authority plays a central role in both crime prevention and investigation. It is therefore gratifying that we are beginning to see the results of the historic effort to increase the number of police workers by 10 000 by 2024. Since 2016, the number of police employees has increased by nearly 3,500. Orderkeepers cannot and should not replace the police, but their work is an important contribution to crime prevention and security-building work. However, the regulatory framework for security guards is outdated. The Government has therefore set up an investigation to carry out a broad review of the regulatory framework. The report shall be presented by 21 May 2021. Camera surveillance is another tool that can be used both to combat crime and to increase security more generally. A new camera surveillance team entered into force on 1 August 2018. It means that most companies can now conduct camera surveillance without permission from the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Since 1 January 2020, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Security Service, the Swedish Coast Guard and the Swedish Customs Authority are also allowed to conduct camera surveillance without such permission. Furthermore, since 2014, the government has taken the initiative to impose some fifty penalties. Among other things, the scale of penalties for several serious violent crimes has been tightened. In order to reduce crime and increase security in society, efforts are needed to combat both crime and the causes of crime. Efforts also need to be made by non-judicial actors. The Government's crime prevention initiative is ongoing, and the work is conducted in accordance with the goals set by the Government in the National Crime Prevention Programme Together against Crime. There are 14 agencies that have been commissioned to report actions that have been implemented or started since 2017 and that may have a bearing on the programme's strategic objectives in the short or long term. The crime prevention programme is continuously monitored, and the Government intends to report back to Parliament on the work during the year. In this context, municipalities are also an important player in crime prevention, and it is important that the legislation is clear in this area. The Government has therefore set up an investigation to suggest how a regulated municipal responsibility to work crime prevention can be designed. The assignment shall be presented by 15 June 2021. The business community also often contributes to crime prevention in different ways by interacting with, for example, the police and the municipality, not least at the local level. The government is following developments and is prepared to take further action if necessary.
i-21VMFvyTguJgsHVanQGVoa	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Morgan Johansson, for your answer! I can start by saying that I am dealing with consumer and association issues in the party, so I will not go into the number of police officers that Morgan Johansson hopes will exist or how unreasonable this is in view of the number of empty places in education. I leave these questions to our representatives in the Committee on Justice. However, I had hoped that Morgan Johansson would be a little more specific about what you do and when it will have a full effect. There is talk of 34 new measures and about fifty penalties, but when do we see the impact in society? I don't feel like we're seeing that effect today. It is disturbing that companies are forced to take measures that are detrimental to us consumers in several ways. A very tangible example of us consumers noticing the pressure that companies live under is that several have stopped making cash to avoid being robbed. At first it was mainly 24 hours open petrol stations that stopped receiving cash during the night to reduce the risk of robbery, but now also department stores like Åhléns or furniture giant Ikea in Valbo do not receive cash. In principle, none of the fast food points at the central station here in Stockholm receive cash. When the Minister now tells us that the number of robberies to stores has fallen sharply, it should be remembered that the number of stores that can be robbed of money has also decreased sharply. Moreover, stores that still have cash have an increasing share of their sales in other ways. In addition to removing cash and protecting themselves with cameras, there are also many who have become tired and have completely shut down their business. Large chains, such as Ica and Coop, move stores from alienation areas and avoid opening new stores in vulnerable areas. Shops that have been closed or never opened are of course never subjected to robbery. In order to claim from the statistics on robbery that Sweden has become more secure, it is probably necessary to have been trapped inside the shell protection in the Riksdag for a little too long. If you skim through the news flow from recent years you can quickly find that there are shops in more or less all the municipalities in Skåne that have been hit by robberies, and several of them many times. In Svedala last summer a shop closed after four robberies in a row for a month. Is this extreme? Yeah. Is that unusual? I'm afraid not. After the closure, the number of robberies against that store has obviously become significantly smaller. In addition, it should not be forgotten that personal robbery has increased. It is not uncommon for criminals to wait for staff to close and go home for the evening. In my own municipality of residence, little Örkelljunga, the problems with disturbances in the evenings were so great that Coop had to hire security companies to help at the closure and make sure that the staff could get out of the workplace safely. Let's talk about a small town with 6,000 inhabitants. I can tell Morgan Johansson that it is definitely not perceived as a greatly increased security in recent years, as Morgan Johansson wants to say, but it is also possible to say almost what you want with statistics.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-243	Mr President, I would like to No, actually, it doesn't-- you can't say what you want with statistics. The statistics usually reflect a development that is factually correct. Mikael Eskilandersson may actually be prepared to conduct a police debate if he goes up and talks about insecurity and crime in Sweden. If he does, he'll have to be prepared to discuss the police issue as well. For me, it is very important to ensure that we continue to expand police operations in the way we are now doing. We have said that we will have 10,000 more employees in the police force by 2024. We have already delivered about a third of that target – three and a half thousand more employees since 2016. We will continue to expand the police. We have now started two new police training courses – one in Malmö and one in Borås. We train three times as many police officers as we did when we took office, and in the coming years we will see how these new police officers come out. Across the country, there will be – and this is already evident – an increased police presence in many places. It is important for us to say that this extension should exist and be noticed everywhere in the country, even in north-west Skåne, where I myself – as you know – have the roots. For me, it is important to ensure that this presence is everywhere and that we continue the expansion. When it comes to business, I think that if Mikael Eskilandersson says that this only increases, you should go to the statistics and the facts that exist. If it is the case that burglaries in shops have been halved in ten years – because that is what we are talking about – one must also be able to say that in a debate. Of course, you can see that there are still crimes in stores – it is clear that this is the case – but you still have to be able to see the whole picture. If it is the case that shop robberies have decreased by 40% in these ten years, we must also be able to see it. If it is the case that gun robbery has decreased by three-quarters over the last ten years, you have to be able to see it, and if it is the case that housing burglaries have decreased by 35% in recent years – because it is actually – you have to be able to see it. But the Swedish Democrats do not want to see this. You want to create a picture of everything always going worse and worse and that there is only one development that is negative. Actually, that's not the case. The measures we have taken in recent years have actually had an effect. For example, when it comes to housing offences, the police are making a powerful effort not only against gang crime but also against international theft gangs, which account for about half of all housing offences. I think this can be linked together. I believe that one effect of this is, among other things, that we can see that housing break-ins are greatly reduced. After all, everyone has a responsibility to try to increase security and reduce crime. In the crime prevention programme that we are taking forward, we say that this is a responsibility not only for the police or for the municipality but also, in fact, for non-profit forces and the business community. I see how the business community plays a very active role in a lot of places in Sweden to just develop and expand security and reduce crime. We will continue to do that.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-254	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with the number of cops. It is certainly a good thing to increase the number of police officers, but I would say that the opposition and my own party have been very much the driving force for more police officers. I think we've been going on about more cops since we got into parliament in 2010, and even before that, we were nagging about the need for more cops. It's just a late awakening from the government to figure out that there might have to be a little more police training. That the robbery of stores is decreasing is, as I said, largely because of what the shops themselves do. They remove cash and protect themselves so that there is no reason to rob them. This is at least as reflected in the statistics as it would be that it has become much safer for the shops. At the same time, it should be remembered that personal robbery has not been the same fine development, but we have a completely different problem there. Then it's interesting that you always pick out and compare with a year, like ten years ago, when it was a very high number, instead of comparing it to what it was like in the 40's, 50's or 60's. In a slightly longer perspective it is rarely a particularly favorable development. I know that Morgan Johansson has a favorite quote, that 30 years ago the number of people who died of deadly violence was considerably higher than today. But that is because today we run around with mobile phones and can alert very quickly if something happens. In addition, health care has become much better at handling injuries. Back in time, in the 80's, not everyone had a cell phone. As a result, it was more likely to bleed to death if you were exposed to some form of violence. There are other things the government could do. The fact that a store can't even today shut out people who repeatedly steal in the store is strange to me. Instead, the staff are forced to stand and watch while criminals pick up the goods they never intended to pay for. In order to avoid the violence of criminals, staff are usually advised not to confront those who steal or shoplift, especially when they are known criminals. Society stands in favour of crime. Unfortunately, there are many shops that are not even able to report anymore, because they feel that nothing is happening anyway. Punishment is a good thing, and as far as I know, my party has always been behind all the punitive measures that we have put in place in this House. In addition, we have often wanted to go much further and have even tougher penalties. But that in itself is hardly enough when the crimes are not even investigated and are often piled up, even though there should be clear evidence. One thing that should definitely also be addressed is the expulsion of those who are well condemned. Only 60 per cent of non-residents in Sweden were convicted in 2010 – 2014 for murder or manslaughter, 40 per cent were not expelled. When you can commit such extremely serious crimes as murder and manslaughter and still not be expelled, I wonder what you have to do to be expelled. Only 30 percent of those who committed aggravated assault were expelled, for example. These are extremely low numbers. Now they are from 2010– 2014, so they have been for some years, but it does not look much better today.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-261	Mr President, I would like to There were many threads in this post, but I can capture some of them. The first is the punitive measures. I do not think there is any government that has tightened up more penalties, some fifty, than we have done in recent years. The courts sentenced a total of 9 600 prisons in 2018. There was an increase of 20 per cent since 2015. This is a consequence of the fact that we have tightened the penalties. But it is also a result of increased police efficiency, that is, the new police organisation is more effective. After all, we've beaten the same authorities to a joint police department. It also has much more resources at its disposal, more money than ever before and more employees than ever before, and there is a very sharp increase in the number now going to police training and heading out on the streets. One cannot stand here and speak for increased sentences and more of that kind of police action and in the next breath stop the penitentiary institutions that we are going to build. That is precisely what the Swedish Democrats have done. Here in this Chamber, there is a demand for increased punishment. When we build an institution in Svedala, because we have to take care of those who have been sentenced to these penalties, the Swedish democrats act locally to stop the institution building that we actually need. This is how a populist party acts, that is, a party that can stand here and demand one after another and then stop at the local level the investments that in that case need to be made. There must also be some sort of consistency on the part of the Swedish democrats. Since then, shop robberies have decreased trendically, and burglaries in stores have decreased. This is certainly due to a combination of measures taken by the business community but also in cooperation with the municipality and the police. This is a good development that I think Mikael Eskilandersson should be happy for. I also think he should be glad that the deadly violence has, after all, declined trend-wise in the last 30 years. This picture is also confirmed by the number of assaults, but also by the number of cases that come into the healthcare system as a result of some form of violence. Mikael Eskilandersson grabs a straw in the debate and says that it is probably only because the health care system has been developed and that they now have mobile phones. No, it's not that simple. Instead, I believe that the development that we have seen in recent years is that there is an increase in violence in, above all, the gang-criminal environments with more firearms, violence and explosions. Then we'll have to deal with it. But, as I said, the risk of people being killed in general has not increased, although of course it can also happen. We have seen examples of this. But I think that Mikael Eskilandersson should be happy for the overall development. We will continue to expand police operations and increase penalties when necessary. Mikael Eskilandersson mentioned the robbery. One of the measures in the 34-point programme is to increase the penalties for the crimes typically committed by gang criminals, so that we can use more of the detention efforts against those individuals. In the same way we did a few years ago. Then we raised the penalties for the serious weapons crimes, which has had a tangible effect and has been a huge success. People who used to run around with guns in the city are now locked up, and we're going to make sure that even those who engage in personal robbery are going to do so.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-268	Mr President, I would like to I think I will never really understand how the Social Democratic Government thinks when they think that we should build new ones, where we should force people to relocate, and then build on the best agricultural land in southern Sweden and not in northern Sweden where there is land that is much less worth as agricultural land. Then you can always have opinions about what our municipal representatives do, and I don't think Morgan Johansson wants to stand here and defend what his municipal representatives do in Örkelljunga, because then we could probably stand and discuss it for a long time. In 2002 Morgan Johansson said that the drugs would be gone in 2012, in 2017 Morgan Johansson said that we are about to crack the gangs, in January 2019 Morgan Johansson said that crime in Malmö was about to disappear and now Morgan Johansson says that crime against companies will soon be gone. I note that Morgan Johansson does not respond to the full impact of government policy in this area. So far it is a very limited effect we have seen. As I understand it, the government has been working towards reducing crime against companies as long as it has existed. Morgan Johansson started attacking the drugs back in 2002. Since then he has advanced to Minister of Justice, so now I think it's time for Morgan Johansson to start delivering some results for real.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-271	Mr President, I would like to From populists there are always arguments: We have to build more institutions but not right here, because here we are going to grow carrots instead. There's agricultural land here. I know Skåne well and I grew up in Skåne, and there is hardly anywhere in Skåne where you can build without building on fantastic good agricultural land. That's how it is. But then you just have to weigh interests against each other. There are a lot of people living in Skåne and in southern Sweden. If the prison system is to work, you have to have prisons in the places where people actually live. I just pointed out that the SD in this House is saying that we should have higher penalties, more police officers and one after the other, but locally you cannot follow it up and stand up for what society actually needs. That is how a populist party basically acts. Now there will be no institution in Svedala, but I know that there are other municipalities in Skåne that instead want the institution. We'll see where we end up in that part. Mikael Eskilandersson accuses me of not delivering. This government has delivered more in the area of criminal policy than any other government, I would say. There are now many more police officers being trained than before, new police training has been started and we have introduced about fifty penalties. We have also made sure that we now have a programme to continue working against gang-related crime. This area, breaking that kind of crime, is one of our most important and priority areas. However, it must also be possible to enjoy positive results, for example in the case of house burglaries, store robberies or other things. You also have to see when things work well.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-278	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman and Saila Quicklund have asked me what dialogue I have had with the Police Authority in view of the massive increase in fees. Furthermore, they have asked me whether I have carried out an analysis of the consequences of the increase in fees in terms of the possibility of training more security officers and whether it has led to any action on my part. Finally, Lars Beckman and Saila Quicklund wonder what measures I intend to take to ensure that the government authority does not increase the fees so significantly. Let me begin by saying that security guards have an important role to play in helping to maintain order and security in public places. The demand for security services has increased over time, and at the same time we have an obsolete regulatory framework. The Government has therefore set up an investigation to carry out a broad review of the regulatory framework. There are many issues that need to be highlighted, but one of the main issues of the investigation is to review how the rules of the security officers' training should be designed. The assignment shall be presented in May 2021. For the time being, however, we have an existing regulatory framework to deal with. It's the police department that appoints security officers. According to the security officer's regulation, training of security officers may be carried out by the Police Authority or, if there are special reasons, by someone who has been authorised by the Police Authority. For the training carried out by the Police Authority, the Agency may charge a fee. It is the Police Authority that determines the level of the fee, and the Agency disposes of the fee revenues. Unless otherwise provided, the fee revenue under the Fees Regulation shall cover all costs incurred by the Police Authority in carrying out the training. I understand that the fee charged for a number of years has been too low and that the agency has therefore had to increase the fees significantly for both initial and further training. It is unfortunate that charges are raised so much in one stroke. It would have been preferable if the Police Authority had constantly reviewed the fees and, if necessary, gradually increased them. In the context of the ongoing dialogue with the Police Authority, the Agency has informed of the increase in fees and the impact assessment carried out by the Agency has been requested. However, I would like to emphasise that it is the Police Authority that determines the level of fees and is responsible for the soundness of its decisions.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-283	Madam President, I would like I think there are many in Sweden who feel that insecurity has increased. I think there are many in Sweden who feel that we have a low police presence. I think there are many in Sweden who get worried when an elderly lady in Överkalix is robbed in her home. I think there are many in Sweden who feel that there is a need for greater security in the country. The government is responsible for ensuring that security in the country increases. One important thing that we agree on politically is that more police are needed. We agree that the police need better conditions, although one might wish the government would do more. But when the responsible minister allows the Police Authority to shock-raise fees, the consequence will be fewer security officers in Sweden. Since this interpellation was published, I have received a number of phone calls, emails and messages on Messenger. The last one I got just now. It says: I will not renew my watchman's assignment, as I cannot afford to continue. Of the 10,000 security guards in Sweden, about 7,000, like many others, have a full-time job, but they do, perhaps a few times a month, a community contribution on Friday or Saturday evenings or at sporting events. The sharp increase in fees means that basic education will cost nearly SEK 23 000. Additional training will cost 8 000 every three years, and an arena training will cost 11 250. Many will simply not be able to afford to be a security guard. In fact, income is so small in relation to expenditure. I don't think the government thinks you should pay to be a security guard. But that will be the consequence of these fees. I have read about and have had contact with those who are security guards in, for example, Ljusdal, in my county. It had been calculated what it will cost. Just count backwards: This is how big the income was for three years, and this is how big the cost is. You can't pay to be a security guard. I believe that when the Government becomes aware of this from the Police Authority, the government must act. We cannot have a situation in Sweden with increased insecurity in society and a need for more, not fewer, security guards and with a police authority that unfortunately acts in a direct counterproductive way. The Occupational and Occupational Health and Safety Board has attributed it to the Government. They refer to the preparatory work in the bill which states that the person participating in the training must pay for travel and that you do not receive compensation for lost work in service or for food and accommodation. However, the training itself is free of charge. That is what was said in the preparatory work on the legislation that is in force today. If you take order, security and security seriously, you cannot allow anything that will lead to a large reduction in the number of security officers in Sweden. It will create insecurity in rural areas. It will create insecurity in my county of Gävleborg. There is a police shortage in Gävleborg; we all know that. The orderkeepers there are doing an amazing community effort. We cannot punish them financially, Madam President. It requires the government to act.
i-U9PoWYJmry9qsZgKU5ZDzp	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Damberg. I asked two questions. One concerned the Minister's analysis of the increase in fees and the consequences for the ability to train security guards. I also asked what measures the Government intends to take to ensure that the government's own authority should not increase the fee so strongly. I have not received an answer, either to the written question I have previously put to the Minister or in this debate. It is surprising, especially when we know that there is an ongoing debate and that the consequences are clear. But the minister chooses not to answer that. Minister Damberg replies, however, that it is the Police Authority that has established the level. That can certainly be the case. But it is the Minister's own authority, and the Minister is, or should be, informed. The background to the debate is therefore that the Police Authority has recently decided to increase the fee for education from 1 March this year. There is now great concern in the country. I can understand that. I also look at my own county, Jämtland, where the distances are large. Even if the police situation is better there, there's more to be desired. The caretakers certainly have an important role to play. There is a Facebook group with 3,600 members, many of whom are security guards. There you can find really good information, and there they have the opportunity to express what they feel about the increase. One of the votes says half will stop. It is indeed serious, even for the security of society. The basic education fee is thus increased from SEK 7 780 to SEK 22 000, almost SEK 23 000. The fee for continuing training that has to be completed after three years is increased from 1 700 to 8 000. And the fee for arena training is increased from 2,500 to 11,250. The total cost of training as a caretaker must also count on lost income. For most people do not work with this on a full-time basis. That cost can be estimated at SEK 13 600. Then they will also live somewhere during the training. 50 per cent of the course participants come from a long distance to the courses. You'd have to count 9 grand for that. They will also buy uniforms, vests and gloves. Then we'll land at $23,000 for it. For an initial education it costs a total of 55 000 SEK. One should then know that a freelance security guard does about twelve hours a year. It'll be a payoff period of three and a half years. After three years, you have to go further education. It costs 8 000 kroner. If you add the total cost of it, it will be 12 000 SEK. In total, there will be SEK 67 531 for a person who wants to take this education and who after three years also goes to the further education that is compulsory. Madam President, I would like I have to ask Minister Damberg if this is reasonable. I did not receive an answer in either the written answer or now in the debate, but I must ask the question. I would also like answers to the questions I have asked. I'll set them up again. What is the Minister's analysis of the increase in fees? What are its consequences? What is the Minister's own view of this? Above all, I wonder what concrete measures the Minister intends to take to improve the situation if he now thinks the consequences are significant.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-303	Madam President, I would like The police authorities have announced that from 1 March, the prices for, among other things, initial and continuing training for security officers will be increased. I don't think it's enough to say there's gonna be a shock rise:
i-da78c7bb4140273a-304	中 360 percent increase in training for security officers, something they need to go on continuously
i-da78c7bb4140273a-306	We are talking here about very high charges. I have been told by several security guards in my Värmland that they are thinking of quitting because they will not be able to afford this. This is not, of course, a directly high-paid profession, despite the risks they take and the uncomfortable working hours they have. I don't know if the Government has understood – I think he has – what a critical situation Sweden is in with increasing gang crime. It is also seen that young people use more drugs. The drugs are flowing in the taverns. Uncertainty prepares itself throughout Sweden. At home in Karlstad, Värmland, I always receive stories from people who have been victims of crime. Young people see people openly taking drugs at the restaurant. Young girls feel insecure when they go home. The caretakers are there to increase security. They can suppress crimes that are about to be committed. They can see if girls at the restaurant are about to be subjected to crime. In this there is no rhyme and no reason. We know how bad things are with the police's resources. We know how insecurity spreads throughout Sweden. We know how scared young girls and women are to go home at night. We know how open it has become to take drugs at the restaurant. Here's the security detail. It's a brake pad. They can be crucial to preventing crime. How can the Government justify this increase, which is most likely to reduce the number of security officers in society? They won't be able to afford it. This happens at a time when they are most needed. They're the police's extended arm. Everyone understands and knows what important work the security guards do, and more than fewer are needed to increase security in society. I think that consideration should be given to reviewing this one more time. This is particularly true in order to increase security in the critical situation we are currently in. When I'm home I usually stop and talk to the security guards who walk the streets of Karlstad to hear what the situation is. I see what work they're doing. I also sometimes see how uncomfortably the work is when it is not enough. The police are not in place quickly enough when needed. This speaks clearly. Order guards are needed more than ever. We need to value them much higher than what is now being proposed. We need security officers downtown, in city parks and in the taverns. We need them to correct what is happening. We need them to make people feel safe at night when they go home. We need them as the police's extended arm. My question to you, Minister, is: How are you going to work to increase security and to increase motivation for security officers to continue doing their job?
i-da78c7bb4140273a-316	Madam President, I would like This is an important debate, because we have security problems in Sweden with concerns in not least central places in our cities where many people are. Today, security guards are doing a very important job of security and order. I meet a lot of security guards. They testify that they have gained deeper and closer cooperation with both the police and the municipality and can thus do their job better. This is a sector that has not really received any attention and, above all, not a well-developed regulatory framework for quite a long time. That is why we are now making a major discussion of how the rules for security officers should work. There have been a number of investigations over time, when you have looked at smaller parts. But it has never led to any major changes in the regulations for security guards, which I think is wrong. The municipalities are therefore irritated, the police do not feel that it really works and the security officers themselves do not feel the appreciation or have the powers they would like to have. Nor do they feel that they are getting the right education. I believe that making such a move is the most important thing for this social sector to have a secure development in the future. It must become a profession that truly fulfils the role it should have as a complement to the police. I will come back to the more detailed questions, but the most important thing we do for security is to expand the police. That's the biggest mission we're working on right now. As everyone knows, the goal is to have 10,000 more police employees by 2024. At the turn of the year, the statistics for the previous year came. This is the best statistics we have had so far in Sweden. We've never had so many police employees or so many police officers. Above all, it is increasing in all regions of Sweden, which is a good thing. In the beginning, the number of civilian employees increased most. Now the number of police officers is starting to increase around Sweden. This is very important even for the security guards. If there are too few police officers, the security officers will be in a very difficult position. Let me come to the question of the increase in fees. I agree with the interpellants that the fee increase is very high on a board. I'll be honest and say I don't like this. However, it is not I who make the decision, but the Police Authority does. According to the current rules, the police have the task of conducting this training and, according to the regulations, must take full cost recovery. These rules have been in force in Sweden for a long time. Therefore, the police, together with other authorities, must assess the cost of this and adjust it. If the police had done this continuously over time, there would not have been the same increase in costs now, but it would have been adjusted gradually. Now there will be a huge increase in costs in one stroke. What are the consequences of this? It is the Police Authority that is responsible for making such an impact statement. I am absolutely convinced that the demand for security guards will continue to increase. As demand continues to increase, the market situation is also affected. I spoke to Gävle's municipal councillor just a few days ago and asked some questions about the fires that have taken place in one of the residential areas, if it had calmed down and how they had worked. I also asked a little about how they had collaborated, and among other things I wondered how they worked with security guards. One of the announcements was that Gävle Municipality has submitted an application for LOV areas in order to be able to use security officers in the future. This is just one example of how more actors will continue to use security guards and perhaps even increase their use in the future. It will probably affect demand, and when something affects demand, it can also affect the market and pricing. I am absolutely convinced that this will also happen in this area.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-327	Madam President, I would like I would first like to confirm what the Government says about security guards, security guards and security cameras in Gävle. After five years of violent criticism from us Moderates, the Social Democrats have finally, after countless car fires, decided to apply for permission to install security cameras. So that's right. Unfortunately, it's five years late. Madam President, I would like This interpellation thus concerns the costs of security training and the emergency situation that will arise. It's a social effort to be a security guard. When I was young and lived in Boden 30 years ago, I attended a security course. I became a security guard. I worked full-time in the weeks and on a Friday night every now and then. I still lived in Boden, but sometimes I had to go to Jokkmokk on a Saturday night or to the dance in Vuollerim. At that time, I weighed 40 to 50 kg less, so I was small and weak. I had to talk to those who were a little over-refreshed: Go for a walk! Then there was some big and strong colleague who didn't let them back in. But should I have paid? My colleague, Mrs Quicklund, referred to this. Would I have been able to afford 60 000, 70 000, 80 000 to attend the training and buy the equipment required? No, I wouldn't have. It would have been completely unthinkable for me to pay for being a security guard. But that is the consequence of the government's response. I assume that before this interpellation debate the Government has also read Bya's submission, where the industry notes that there are basic security training courses in ten days that cost 12 000 SEK. There is one company that has training for SEK 11 500. The police are gonna take 25 grand. This must mean that the police are conducting an incredibly inefficient education, because they are more than twice as expensive as the private alternatives that exist. This is probably where the solution is: The Government and the Government must ensure that there will be a variety of private actors licensed to have security trainings, if it is in that way that the police cannot conduct the training cost-effectively enough. I would also like to recall what it says in the preparatory work for the legislation that exists at the moment – although it is outdated and old and is to be reviewed – namely that the training itself should be free of charge. Madam President, I would like I think, like the Swedish people, that it is the government's responsibility to ensure that we do not impair security in Sweden. We must also ensure that restaurants can be run in Ljusdal. Of course, the restaurant will be required to have security guards in order to be able to conduct dance events, events, show football matches or anything else. Then it is not good enough that the Government and the Government do not act. It's an emergency here and now. I have received four messages from Messenger from people whom I do not know and who wanted to say that they will of course not renew their permits and that it does not work for them to pay for being a security guard. A security guard is making a risky social effort. Here we are in complete agreement. The orderkeepers are an incredibly good complement to the police. They're doing an amazing community effort. But we can't ask you to pay to do the job. For a person who works full-time at his or her job and then works extra as a security guard alongside, these fees are totally unreasonable. There is no understanding whatsoever from security officers for these toll increases. If the Government considers that it is a problem that we will reduce the number of security guards significantly, the Government must act in one way or another to resolve the situation and create security in Sweden.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-336	Madam President, I would like In his previous speech, the Minister chose to state that security officers are very important in the big cities. I would like to point out that they are perhaps even more important in rural areas, where we have few policemen and great distances. The police department estimates that there are 10,000 appointed security guards in the country, of which 7,000 are freelance security guards working directly against various employers. Smaller guarding and guarding companies operating in rural areas are completely dependent on freelance security guards. This means that they cannot offer full - time work. The work is also seasonal, with higher pressure during summer and winter seasons. In my county, Jämtland, we recruit security officers from just across the country, because we don't have enough at home. The big festival, Storsjöyran, is an example of this. There we have security officers from everything from Skåne to Norrbotten. When Östersund's football club, ÖFK, has its matches, they need 16 security guards. There is now a position that says that 50% of today's 7 000 freelance security guards will stop. It will have devastating consequences. This is unreasonable. The police department has also centralised itself, so these trainings are in the big cities. As I said earlier, it means higher costs for accommodation, travel and so on. This too is devastating. In some counties, even the Police Authority does not offer training courses. As an example, I can say that in the middle of the region there will only be an initial education in 2020, in Söderhamn. This means that Uppsala and Västmanland County will not have any education. In Region north, which I belong to, you will have education in Luleå and Umeå. From Östersund it is 40 km up to Umeå and about 600 km to Luleå. From Härjedalen it is much longer than that. There is no education in Västernorrland or Jämtland – Härjedalen. Training is not carried out in June to August, which is devastating, nor in December. This is when people have the opportunity to attend these courses without having to take time off from work. This is also something that needs to be reviewed. The security school AB, which has been authorised by the Police Authority to train security officers, has calculated that they need SEK 9 520 plus VAT to cover all costs and also make a profit from training security officers. Then we know, as I said earlier, that the police authorities want 22 875 kroner. There's an incredibly big difference there. It doesn't feel relevant. I am happy to listen to the Government's view of that difference: SEK 9 520, on which a profit is made, versus the Politighetens 22 875. This is a business and a profession that secures the security of our country. Why is it that these differences exist?
i-da78c7bb4140273a-341	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Government that the status of the profession of security guard should be increased and that the quality of education should be higher. This does not mean, however, that charges need to be increased. The government is talking about expanding the police. It's gonna take time. We still have a fairly small number per inhabitant compared to other countries in Europe, especially in view of what is happening in Sweden with explosions and gang crime spreading. That is why it is extremely important that we have the security officers at our disposal. They're the police's extended arm. The government itself says that he is not satisfied with the fee and that it is a little too high. Then perhaps politics should take the helm and change this? Obviously, charges are far too high. You don't have to be Einstein to figure out what the negative consequences are for society if we get fewer security officers in place because people don't feel they can afford to educate themselves. I think this is a very important issue in order to strengthen the security of society at the moment. Security must go first at all times. One way to increase security is to have security guards in the city, in the taverns and in areas that feel insecure and where the police are not enough. The police can cooperate with them. I hope the government reconsiders here.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-345	Madam President, I would like If you listen to the discussion, you can see that we agree on quite a lot. We agree on the importance of security officers and regarding police expansion throughout Sweden. We also agree that we need to change the regulatory framework so that it is modern and adapted to our time; the duties, powers and training of security officers must be linked. It sounds a bit like the Moderates now have their own view that there should be no fees at all for security guards. It would cost nothing to train to be a security guard. That's what Lars Beckman said – that in the preparatory work it said that it would cost nothing to train to be a security guard. It was the Moderates who, in 1991-1994, established the framework for full cost recovery that we have lived with since then. That's what the police authorities have to do. For the costs they have in carrying out this form of training, they shall charge that fee. It was you who introduced that provision for, among other things, the Police Authority, and that is what applies. The Moderates want to make some bets on security guards. However, they have not spent any money in their budget to reduce the costs of training security guards, in any case as I can see if I read your draft budget. It sounds a little bit like you have had a completely different principled view of the regulatory framework. You may have the vision that you are now saying, but you have not had it until today as I understand it. It is absolutely true that there are some different practitioners of education and that they have different price levels. The effect in some form of a market economy is likely to be that those with lower costs will have more people who want to attend their training courses. The market effect of a shortage somewhere in Sweden is that there will also be pressure to replace those people so that you get full on the matches, in the center or where it is. It is a little strange that the Moderates completely ignore the fact that there is some kind of market also in the labour market. This means that there are wages and conditions with which action will be taken to ensure that the needs that are growing are met. They have grown for a number of years, and they continue to grow. I now took local examples. Even Gävle municipality, which is now affected, will introduce security guards in a different way than before. This means that demand is growing. It creates an opportunity for the industry to grow with this demand. The police department has now sued this. The question is: What is my picture of the costs of conducting the training? I don't have a direct picture. It is the Authority that must make that assessment. I know that the Police Authority has consulted the Financial Control Agency as they should to assess whether it is full cost recovery or not. I have not reviewed that assessment, but it is the authority that has the responsibility, which has checked it with the Financial Control Agency and which has concluded that it is full cost recovery. I do not have any information today that says that the Police Authority would have miscalculated or not have it under control. It's the police department that makes the decision. It must be based on the regulatory framework that has been in force in Sweden since the Moderates introduced it in 1992.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-353	Madam President, I would like I fully understand that the Government is under stress, but let us stick to some relevant facts. It is said quite often from that part of politics that it would be the Moderates' fault if something is wrong in society. It is well world record to say that a 50-year-old writing in a bill would be the reason why the government allows the Police Authority to shock raise a fee. That is, of course, a baroque statement, Madam President. It is the government that governs Sweden. It is the Government that is responsible for the security of Sweden. It is the Government that must act if you make decisions that will make us get fewer security officers in Sweden. It is not the responsibility of the Moderates until that day anyone else has the position of the State Council. So I read aloud from the preparatory work on the legislation adopted between 1979 and 1980. Bya has pointed out that it is in this preparatory work that it says that education should be free of charge, but I have never said so. The Moderates have never said that security training should be free of charge. Nor have the security guards said that. I haven't received a single call demanding it to be free of charge. What is being pointed out is exactly what Mrs Quicklund described, namely the consequences of the decision. The government and the government are asking people to pay to work as a security guard in Ljusdal where there is no privacy for the police on a Friday night. Maybe there's a police car on duty in Hälsingland. Maybe there are three police cars on duty in Gästrikland. You wouldn't be able to arrange activities at restaurants in the evenings unless the security guards were there. It's a city-and-country question. I appeal to the Government to understand that there would be terrible consequences if the government did not go in and act in a hand-in-hand manner. We greatly reduce the number of security officers in Sweden when they are needed most. Sweden needs more security guards until there are more police officers in place. Sweden needs more security. Sweden needs a minister who understands to take this issue seriously.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-360	Madam President, I would like An organisation always requires evaluation and review. If the consequences are so great that such a large number of security guards now announce that they are quitting, the government must of course act. That is what this debate is about. It is not possible to get away from the fact that the minister is the highest responsible. I read from the Facebook group Raise the fee= I end up as a security guard. It says: Many with me feel that they want to continue. But it's not worth it. There must be rhymes and reason. There will be a great shortage of security guards. Security will be put at risk. There's still a shortage of cops. There the security officers step in and take over some of the work that has previously been handled by the police. Wages have not been raised in 20 years. Instead, the cost element is raised in shock. There are a little more facts. Guardians and security guards intervened in 172 000 crimes and disorder of order in 2018. That's an 8% increase. A total of 15 500 people were arrested and taken care of in 2018. The number of operations, first aid and fire, increased by 18 per cent to 105,000 events, which is interesting. The caretaker has an incredibly important role for society. I and many others are really concerned about this situation, as I said earlier. We have given clear views on consequences and so on. Many times politics is a tactic. But this is real and serious. I now assume that the Minister will take the matter seriously. The consequences are clear. These expectations exist. Of course we will follow the work. With those words, I would nevertheless like to thank the Minister for the debate.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-365	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to thank you for the interpellation debate. The orderkeepers are important in Sweden. They play an important role as a complement to the police. In many contexts, they are crucial for order and security in society. My assessment is that their importance will grow in the coming years. More and more municipalities but also actors want to have an order-making and security-building activity linked to their operations. We will review the entire regulatory framework and make a powerful improvement in the ability of the entire profession to function with the available investigation. The police department has made a decision to increase the fees. It's not the government that's done it. We have been informed of the increase in fees. The positive thing is that we have a common commitment to security guards. I did not claim that it was the preparatory work that played a role in this. I claimed that the fee regulation introduced by the police to have full cost recovery for this type of training was introduced in 1992. Then it became clear that the police had to take full cost recovery for the training provided. The police's total deficit for this operation has been estimated at approximately SEK 130 million. That's why you make this adjustment. If you don't do anything else, 135 police officers or other employees in the Police Authority can't do their job. If we are serious about police expansion, the police must have cost recovery for the training they conduct. I note that there are private alternatives that are cheaper than the police. They're going to win a lot on the market. I also believe that demand that is increasing will affect the conditions that must be imposed as a security guard. Many will continue to want security guards after this. I can assure you that I will follow the question. But I cannot influence the authority when it makes a decision under the current regulation.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-372	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me how to ensure that hunters continue to be able to train and compete with their rifles for the meaning of the word purpose inserted into the legal text. She has also asked me whether my intention is to authorize all containers intended to contain ammunition. It is urgent that the country's hunters can continue their shooting training. Government bill for the regulation of weapons warehouses (prop. 2019/ 20:58) will not impair hunters' ability to practice or compete with their weapons. The Government's proposal proposes that a person who has a licence or a right to hold a gun for shooting does not need to apply for a permit to hold a removable warehouse for the weapon as long as the warehouse is intended for the same purpose as the permit or the right to hold the weapon. A hunter's right to use his firearms for hunting also includes a right to use the weapon for practice or competition. The government's proposal means that a hunter will not need to apply for a permit for either detachable magazines intended for hunting or magazines intended for practice or competition. In practice, therefore, the bill will not affect our responsible hunters and sportsmen. They will continue to be able to hold freely the magazines they need for hunting, sporting, practice or competition. As can be seen from my reply to the debate held in December, the Arms Act will apply if a detachable warehouse is complete and functioning. However, warehouses held by the state, such as the Swedish Armed Forces, are not subject to regulation.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-377	Madam President, I would like I must say, in fact, that I am surprised at the attitude of the government, but above all the Council of State, on this issue. The same untenable reasoning is maintained: everyone else is wrong. So hunters' organisations, sports federations, researchers, many authorities and the parliamentary majority have misunderstood everything. In all honesty, I cannot understand why so many people have been involved in the proposal if there are no negative consequences. Instead of attacking, accusing, defaming and disparaging those who present factual, constructive and relevant criticisms, the government should listen, absorb, lay down, back and withdraw. The Government repeatedly says that the proposal has no negative consequences for hunters and sportsmen. Exactly this opinion shows that the Government is not aware of the matter. We can start with the sentence that contains the word purpose. There are several problems with the proposal, but it is this sentence that is most revealing. This particular formulation will mean restrictions on hunting and shooting in Sweden. If the government really wants to get to gang crime, why is the word purpose? Gang-law criminals do not have a license, and thus the wording is aimed at purposes only and exclusively at law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. The same applies to the wording that those who have a non-licensed warehouse lose all weapons licences. Again: Gang criminals have no licenses, and thus the government shows that the intention is to access legal gun owners with a license. I must also go into the question of the Swedish Armed Forces. They are exempted from the licence requirement for magazines, but this does not mean that the responsibility of the Armed Forces is not essential. The Warehouse will need to be kept under lock and key. They will not be able to be transported in any way. If someone drops a magazine during an exercise, the exercise will have to be interrupted, and the Armed Forces will have to find the magazine. Even the Home Guard suffers. Many of the Home Guard staff have bought their own magazines, which they today have to store at home. This would have been known by the government if it had not chosen to exclude the Swedish Armed Forces from the last round of referrals. Madam President, I would like The Government refers to hunters and sportsmen not having to apply for a permit for the magazine when training and competing. Here the Government must either have been completely misled or misunderstood its own government proposal. The Government may be happy to justify the wording a lot for the same purpose. Today you can use hunting weapons for training and competition with any magazine. I would ask the Government to answer the question: Is it a problem that a person with a hunting license who today obtains a magazine for sports shooting and then uses his hunting weapon to compete? No. If it's not the criminal gangs that are the problem, why suggest something that only affects law-abiding hunters, sportsmen and collectors? Why should licensees accept minimal impact if it is not their holdings that are intended to be regulated? Madam President, I would like This is exactly what's so hard for a lot of people with me to understand. How can the Government stand and continue to argue that hunters will be affected when there is black and white? You go so far as to call Sweden's hunters and sportsmen weapons lobby and demolish their skills to the lowest level. That is totally unacceptable.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-386	Madam President, I would like I think it's important to be without prestige in politics. Today in the morning, we Moderates have gone out and said that this bonus thing – malus does not work. It is not reasonable for Swedish taxpayers to subsidise motorists in Norway. We're just saying it without any prestige and listening to the scientific community. This isn't working, so let's do it again and do it right. I think it is a good quality of politics, Madam President. So when something lands wrong, it is not wrong to do it again and do it right. On the issue of licensing for hunters' and sportsmen's weapons warehouses, it is clear that the government and the government have fallen completely wrong. I have met many upset hunters at home in my constituency, Gävleborg, who do not understand at all how the government thinks. I've met sportsmen who say the same thing. It would be strange if it were the case that everyone else, those who know the subject matter, would be wrong and the government and the government would be right. I think it would be better, and I think the Government would be more respectful if he just stated: we are wrong. We'll change our minds. We're gonna do it again, and we're gonna do it right. It cannot be that the Government seriously believes that it is Sweden's hunters who are robbing at night or that it is the country's sportsmen who commit serious crimes. I have seen the high-profile videos that have been distributed in social media where the Government has a debate with Sten Bergheden. I've seen other press clippings, too. I'm a little curious about this, because I didn't know that Sweden has a weapons lobby. And if we have a gun lobby, I don't understand why the hunters and the sportsmen would belong to it. I would therefore like the Government to develop its view of the Swedish Arms Lobby. However, I am proud of Ragnar Skanåker. I'm proud of the sports he's done and done. I am proud of our Swedish sportsmen, some of whom belong to the world elite. I'm proud of that. I am proud that there is a majority here in the Swedish Parliament that intends to reject what I would call an attack on Swedish hunters and sportsmen. I think, as I said, it is a good quality in politics to be prestigeless, just as we Moderates are with bonuses – malus when we now note that it is not reasonable for Swedish taxpayers to subsidise Norwegian car buyers. It would be good if the Government too were just as unpretentious on this issue. It would be good if he put his time and effort and commitment to solving what is really the social problem and tried to create security in Sweden. The Government should address the problems that actually exist and the solutions that make a difference. It is not likely to be a question of putting forward proposals that make it difficult for Sweden's sportsmen or hunters. The Government should devote its time and effort and commitment to legislation to really try to address the problems that exist whether it is gang crime or something else. I do not think it is worthy of a Swedish government to accuse Sweden's hunters and sportsmen of belonging to some kind of weapons lobby.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-395	Madam President, I would like I've never accused the law-abiding hunters and sportsmen of being a gun lobby. On the other hand, I have seen that in social media there is a great deal of misinformation and pure inaccuracies about the proposal. I find that problematic. Let me start with the prestigelessness. The police department has submitted two letters to the government. They say that there is potential to clearly improve the ability of the Political Authority to counteract and limit the illegal possession and use of firearms. This is one of the greatest questions of our time: how do we get to the gangs that have guns, that shoot, that blow? Now the police authorities come to us with two letters and say that this can clearly give them better opportunities against the gangs. The whole point of a permit requirement is that the gangs don't have permits. With our proposal, they can be in prison if they carry around weapons warehouses. That's what they're supposed to do. The young guys it's often about who stand for violence should risk going to jail if they run around with weapons magazines. That is what the Moderates now seem to say no to, which I find unfortunate. The second question is: Do you need to apply for a permit if you are a hunter or a sportsman? No! You have to read the whole rule. The regulation of the law means that you may, without permission, hold arms storage facilities for the same purpose as the permit and for the same purpose as the right to hold the weapon. Then we have both the Arms Act and the Arms Ordinance, and then you have the right to use your weapon for both practice and competition if you are a hunter. I have asked to come to the Justice Committee with lawyers who can tell us how the legislation is connected in several parts. I very much hope that we can be prestigeless together and sort out what the proposal actually means and does not mean. If you are a hunter and have a weapon, you have the right to have as many weapons magazines as you want for the weapon you use for hunting, practice or sports shooting. For the hunters, I think the best picture and comparison is that weapons warehouses according to the proposal should be treated just like ammunition. I've met very few hunters who think today's rules on ammunition are a problem. On the other hand, this becomes a problem for the criminals who have learned how to round the system today. Today, even though we do not have a hunting license, any of us can go into a store and buy weapons warehouses and store them at home. Why? It is surely those who have weapons and who use weapons who should have the right to have weapons warehouses, not young people running around hiding these warehouses or keeping them at home so that the police cannot always take them and, above all, today cannot put them in prison if they have weapons warehouses. I'm hoping for a prestigious discussion. I hope that by coming to the Committee on Justice, which several parties have nevertheless welcomed, I will be able to explain the nature of the arms legislation proposed. The proposal does not require authorisation if it is the same purpose as the authorisation and the right to hold arms. This means that hunters and sportsmen have the right to use their hunting weapon for practice and competition as well.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-403	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to go into these two letters, which are actually referrals. But I still need to ask a question, and that is how it happened when one of the referrals was rewritten. I'm a little curious about that. It is another discussion, but the Government can take the matter with it. I also wonder if the Government knows how today's system works. The bill claims that magazines should be regulated as ammunition. Can the Government describe how it is possible today to obtain a licence for ammunition? What do you need to do to apply? How long before the application is processed? If you have a hunting rifle with a calibre of 6,5 × 55 and sometimes you can borrow one with a calibre of 308 on the track and you want your own ammo for it, do you get a license for that ammo? The answer is that it takes several months to get the application processed and that you almost certainly get rejected if you do not already have a license for a weapon in the same calibre. There is no specific licence required. This shows that this is already problematic. The Government says that the proposed regulation aims to access gang criminals' warehouses, in accordance with the letters submitted by the police. Is it a mere coincidence, then, that the proposal is in principle identical to the proposal you made in spring 2018, which was then justified by demands from the European Union, which the Minister of Justice then had to admit did not exist, and which you did not manage to get support for in Parliament? It is the same proposal, but now with the new pretext of fighting gang crime. This has been found to be a blow in the air. The police are already confiscating thousands of weapons warehouses. This bill does not have support in the Riksdag. The main arguments for it have been crushed over and over again by the fact that the police are already seizing thousands of magazines today. Warehouse found in gang criminals has only one function, namely to be objects dedicated to causing harm to life and health. They can therefore easily confiscate and destroy with the legislation in force. Thus, the government's heaviest arguments in this magazine debate are crushed. Another argument was that the police would have to return magazines to criminals. To this day, I have not seen the long list of returned magazines that have been requested. Why does the Government persist in clinging to this terrible bill and repeating the same misleading argument that has no relevance? I can only conclude that this is about making it as difficult as possible for the country's hunters and sportsmen and trying to introduce what was not achieved through the weapons directive through the back door. It is difficult to avoid the idea that the government started with this solution and then looked for more or less imaginative justifications for it. This is incomprehensiblely poorly put forward. Madam President, I would like This is not only illogical but also a betrayal of all hunters, sportsmen and arms dealers and arms collectors – especially as Morgan Johansson in this speaker's chair, in an interpellation debate with Daniel Bäckström in June 2018, i.e. prior to the elections, said that there are no compelling reasons for licensing magazines and promised that the government would not proceed with this. As I have said repeatedly, this hunt for law-abiding hunters and sportsmen must stop. Of course, illegal weapons will disappear from the hands of criminals. We all agree on that. But it must be done properly, and there are two different issues.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-413	Madam President, I would like I think I have to remind the Minister of Home Affairs of what he himself wrote on Twitter at the time. 12.56, December 22, 2019– provided that the account was not hijacked, but it would have attracted some attention in that case: According to a new Sifo survey, almost 8 out of 10 Swedes want weapons warehouses to be regulated. More parties should listen to the police instead of the gun lobby. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Then I have to ask the same question again: Which is this gun lobby? What did the government mean when he wrote that you should listen to the police instead of the gun lobby? I have met with serious hunters who make good game conservation efforts for Sweden. I've met sportsmen I'm proud of. It is fantastic that we have talented, world-leading sportsmen in Sweden. It is strange that a majority in the Swedish Parliament and a majority of Sweden's hunters, associations and others have misunderstood the Minister for the Interior. I think you should have the basic rule not to assume that everyone else is wrong but to try to take on board the facts. My specific question, to which I believe Sweden's hunters, Sweden's sportsmen and everyone who read the tweet of the Minister for the Interior wants answers, is of course: What is the weapons lobby that the Minister for the Interior indirectly accuses others of having listened to – the weapons lobby that the Council of State said in its previous speech did not talk about? Do it again, do it right, be prestigeless! I think that is a good way forward in politics.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-419	Madam President, I would like I find it remarkable that moderate MPs devote so much time of debate to underestimating the Police Authority and so flagrantly saying that they are not telling the truth about how the seizure rules work in Sweden. Most of the magazines they find in these environments are magazines for example guns that are completely legal in Sweden today and there is no regulation around, and they must always make an assessment of whether the magazines come into criminal use. That's what criminals have learned. They know how to avoid this. The police want a new legislation that allows when they arrive at a 17-year-old with a weapons warehouse, that person should, in the worst case, be able to go to prison with a penalty scale that will start to apply as early as this summer. That's what you're fighting. I want to answer the question again. I don't see the country's hunters and sportsmen as some kind of gun lobby. But I see in social media how people consistently spread some misconceptions and malicious interpretations of this legislation. On many issues, one can discuss what is right and what is wrong in politics, but when it comes to legislation and how it is designed, there is an interpretation of how law can be designed and what is right and what is wrong – not on the border but what is right and what is wrong. When we now say that a hunter does not need to apply for a permit for either the same purpose as the permit or for the same purpose as the right to hold the weapon, it means that a hunter has the right to use his hunting weapon both for practice and for competition in basically the same way as for ammunition, which most hunters in Sweden think is good. Now we have to strike a balance in politics. That's the hard part. One must be pragmatic and think about what are the major problems in society right now. As Social Democratic Minister for the Interior, I choose to point out the shootings and blasts and the violence that gang criminals actually plague Sweden with. If the police authorities come in with two letters to the government and say that it would be a tool for them to be able to put some of the criminals in prison while we have a system that does not focus on the fact that you as a hunter need to seek permission for these weapons warehouses weigh what the police say heavier right now. I think many hunters also feel that we need to stop the shootings. Those behind them are not responsible. They will never apply for a gun license, and that is not the point of this either. The point is exactly the opposite: precisely because they are not law-abiding sportsmen or hunters, they should be able to go to prison from this summer. I hope that the discussion we have in the Committee on Justice will lead us to find out what the whole of the legislation is – not only in relation to this, but also in relation to the Arms Act and the Arms Regulation. Now it sounds like the Moderates don't want any regulation at all of this, but I've read in the paper that you can imagine a regulation of this. It's really exciting! I am constructive and want to move forward. If there are proposals that are similar to each other and may bring about change, especially for the criminal gangs and criminals who today may have weapons warehouses, then we will ensure that they do so as quickly as possible, preferably by the summer.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-427	Madam President, I would like We Moderates don't have any variations on this. Let's say no to this bill. The existing legislation is clearly sufficient to seize weapons warehouses in criminal cases, as the police are already seizing thousands of them. I would like to continue by asking one more question. Who's the gun lobby made up of? First, the government says he hasn't talked about the gun lobby, but we've proven that he has. Who are they? We are not demolishing the police, but it is the government bill that we saw. If we were to disarm all law-abiding hunters and sportsmen in Sweden tomorrow, it would not affect gang crime in the least. Swedish hunters and sportsmen should not be punished because the government has for several years failed to fight the senseless gang crime. In order to combat the current gang crime, we need strong action on which we Moderates have also put forward proposals. Of course, we will take the weapons out of the hands of criminals, but it must be done effectively. This is not an effective way. This is a hunt for the talented sportsmen and important hunters that exist in Sweden and that we should value much higher than calling them a gun lobby. I would like to conclude with a couple of questions, and then I hope that the government will be able to put this behind it. My message is clear: make it clear, put it down, pull back and back off! In what way are gang criminals affected by a limitation on how someone who has a license for a weapon may use a magazine? Is the government saying gang criminals still have gun licenses?
i-da78c7bb4140273a-432	Madam President, I would like This is a surreal debate. The point of having a regulation on weapons warehouses is that the criminals don't have permits. And since they don't have a warrant, they could risk going to jail. The police want this and can get it by the summer. In order not to have to apply for a permit, we have excluded the weapons warehouses that hunters and sportsmen have for the weapons for which they are authorised and as long as they are intended for the same purpose as the permit or – now I will say it correctly so that no one afterwards can say that I have said otherwise – for the right to possession of the weapons. This means that you can use your weapon for hunting, practice and competition, and you can have as large and as many weapons magazines as you want. That is what the proposal is about. Do you subjugate the police? Yes, it is done in the way that the police have said that they want precisely this kind of regulation and the Moderates say that it is not necessary. But what about Sintéus, who is the chief police officer in Malmö and who is currently in charge of Operation Rimfrost in South Sweden? He calls on Parliament's parties to comply with this legislation, for it would give the police under Rimfrost new tools against the gang criminals. Those are facts. I mean, at this point, it's important to listen to the police. There is no more important task for us than to make sure that these gangs are more difficult to shoot, blow up and practice violence in society, and we have done so in a way that does not actually affect and should not affect law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. I hope that the debate in the future will lead us to find a constructive way forward. But do not think that I am going to back off the suggestion that we must have more stringent legislation, which means that even criminals who have weapons warehouses can risk being imprisoned.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-437	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take in the service to ensure that the Police Authority and the Prosecutor's Office have a high level of public confidence. He has also asked me what concrete measures I intend to take to strengthen legal certainty in Sweden so that people are not detained because of shortcomings in the technical equipment of the police. As Lars Beckman points out, it is of great importance that the public has confidence in the judicial system. Fortunately, we see that the herb novel for the Police and the Prosecutor's Office, as well as for the judiciary in general, has increased in the last two years. In the latest National Security Survey, just over half, 52 per cent of the population, say that they have great confidence in the police. The share has increased by 10 percentage points since 2017. In the case of prosecutors, the proportion of those claiming to have a high level of confidence in the operation has increased from 35 to 39 percent over the same period of time. In order to ensure that police and prosecutors carry out their duties properly and discreetly, there is legislation governing the criminal investigation process, as well as different mechanisms for review, supervision and review of the activities. For example, the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice exercise general supervision over the activities of the authorities. The Security and Privacy Protection Board conducts special supervision of the use of secret coercive measures by law enforcement authorities. If there are suspicions that the police or prosecutor has committed crimes, such as misconduct, it is investigated by the Special Prosecutor's Office with the support of the Special Investigations Department of the Political Authority. The administration of individual cases by the judiciary is therefore a matter for the authorities, and not something on which I, as a minister of state, judge or speak. My view is that legal certainty is generally good in Sweden and that we have functioning systems for reviewing the judicial system's activities. I also believe that it is the Police Authority that is best placed to assess the quality of the technical equipment used in the Agency. I therefore rely on the authority's information that the technical equipment is of good quality.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-440	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, important that the Swedish people have a high level of confidence in the judiciary and our law enforcement authorities. I would say that the Swedish social contract is based on it. Now there is a national target where the police have said that what was said in an illegal telephone wiretaps was inaudible. That is why earlier this year I put a written question to the Government asking what shortcomings in the technical equipment of the police led to several people being detained for a long time. In the written reply, the Government notes that the police report that there are no technical deficiencies in their equipment. At the same time, the prosecutor has found in an attentive case that there were some technical shortcomings and that he had to use his private headphones to hear right. The second it happened, the people who were in custody were released, because what was marked as inaudible proved to be fully audible. I find this worrying. Sweden is a rule of law. I fully agree that the Government should not have any idea of individual court cases. Nor can a Member of Parliament have, at least not while it is going on. On the other hand, I think there may well be views on how this affects confidence in the judiciary. Here we have a case where the state has detained several people for a long time on the basis of a recording that the police say is inaudible but where the prosecutor says he has been able to hear it with his own private headphones. At the same time, the police say that there are no shortcomings in the technical equipment. I think it's troubling. I also find it worrying that the Government says that he is pleased that half of Sweden's population has confidence in the police, because it can also read that half, or at least significant parts, of Sweden's population do not have confidence in the police. When it comes to prosecutors, the Government says that 39% have confidence. This means that some people do not have confidence. I think it is very important that the legal chain works together to build trust, and if shortcomings arise – for example in the police or if a prosecutor or someone else makes a wrong decision – it is important for confidence in the judiciary to show that everyone is equal before the law. If, for example, there has been incorrect telephone tapping, it is important that it receives disciplinary sanctions. We're supposed to treat everyone equally before the law. To build trust in the judiciary, there is a fundamental principle that everyone should comply with Swedish law, including those who work in the law enforcement system. I find it worrying about confidence in the judiciary that there are two diametrically different views in a well-known case. My specific question was: What measures does the Government intend to take in the service to ensure that the Police Authority and the Prosecutor's Office have a high level of public confidence? Unfortunately, I could not hear an answer to that question in the Government's reply, except that he is satisfied. I also asked the question: what does the Government intend to take for concrete measures to strengthen legal certainty in Sweden, so that people are not detained because of shortcomings in the technical equipment of the police? There I interpret the answer as saying that the Government is satisfied with the technical equipment available and that no action will be taken, but the Government will have to develop it.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-449	Madam President, I would like This high profile case is a failure of society. Here a person was detained for a month because of poor evidence and terrible technical equipment where the police headphones did not work well enough, as the prosecutor in the case has said. That is not acceptable. It has also had consequences on several different levels for the person who has been detained. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this up with confidence. Of course, it is good to increase the Swedish people's confidence in the police. So do I. But we are still in the negative account when half of the Swedish people do not have confidence. Worse still, when less than half of the Swedish people have confidence in prosecutors. That is something we need to look at seriously. I agree with the Government that the rule of law is generally good in Sweden and that we have functioning systems for reviewing the activities of the judiciary, but quite clearly it sometimes fails. Then my question is: how will the Government work to increase confidence in the judiciary and to ensure that such legal failures do not occur again? I think that is a very relevant question to ask.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-452	Madam President, I would like I choose to comment on this interpellation in a more comprehensive way, because I do not want to go into individual cases. I think it would be inappropriate for me to deal with individual events. If you want to force me to answer about individual events and individual activities, we end up in a legal system in which the government indirectly governs authorities and has views on the handling of cases and so on. That is what we criticise other countries for. I do not want to do that with Sweden, and that is why my answer will be quite comprehensive. The issue of trust is the important one. It is incredibly important that our law enforcement authorities and the whole chain of justice have a high level of trust. There we are now seeing a positive trend. In recent years, the development of all the authorities in the area of justice is in fact moving in the right direction, and the authority where confidence increases most is the Police Authority. It's very pleasing. In my background I do not have statistics that go far back, but since 2007 I do not see any period when the police have had more confidence than now. So we are in an exciting development where the authorities are strengthening their trust. The D.A. has also gained more confidence. I think this has to do with the fact that the police are very visible. Issues that are important to citizens are addressed, and we feel that the police are moving forward in the sense that after many years they are no longer pulling down and decreasing without more people feeling that developments in the police are now moving in the right direction. I hope it plays a role that we make the great effort of security. It is not only about new positions, but also about equipment, cars, weapons cabinets and other things. Everything needs to grow now that the police department is growing. Indirectly, this means modernising the Police Authority, while at the same time growing enormously. Nevertheless, let me go a little closer to the matter raised by the interpellier. If anything is to be examined, we have, of course, as both the interpeller and the honourable Member raise, a system for that. In this case, the Special Prosecutor's Office has examined the handling and interception of calls by the police in the current hunting case. The preliminary investigation has been closed, which means that the prosecutor considered that there was no reason to pursue the case.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-458	Madam President, I would like No, thank God we do not live in a society in which the ministers govern the judiciary. Of course, we do not want to live in these communities. Sweden is a proud democracy with an independent, free and independent judiciary. That is how it should be, as I said in my previous speech. On the other hand, it is of course deeply worrying if the judiciary and the justice chain act in such a way that confidence in the judiciary and equality before the law are affected. One example could be – and this is a general statement – that a wiretaps is done completely incorrectly and that, when it is examined, it comes to this: Yes, although the wiretaps were not correct – it was illegal. But it was such a low crime that we won't investigate it. It's not confidence building. If you are to have a high level of trust in the whole chain of justice and the whole judiciary, it is important that everyone is equal before the law. It is a fundamental principle of a rule of law. Everyone should be equal before the law. A completely different debate and a forthcoming interpellation, I can reveal, concerns how society allocates its resources. Do we want suspected child rapes to be written off every day in the absence of police officers, and do we want society to allocate its resources in a certain way? But this is another debate that we are going to have. I believe that this is deeply detrimental to the confidence of the entire judiciary in Sweden. All confidence in the political system is adversely affected when there are two diametrically different views on a matter of this importance and attention. When the police say that there are no flaws in a technical equipment and a prosecutor says that it does, it is clear that it is a breach of trust. Who is going to fix it and how it will be corrected is probably up to the Government to think about. But what is damaging to trust needs to be addressed. That's just the way it is. I do not know how active the Government is on social media, but I am myself in a Facebook group with nearly 30 000 participants expressing their sympathy for a person who has been detained for a long time on completely incorrect grounds – he was released when the wiretaps were described in a different way. Nor do I think that the Government or a Member of Parliament should, for that matter, stand here in the speaker's chair and discuss an individual case; it should be a general discussion. How do we act as elected representatives to ensure that the judiciary and the justice chain have a high level of trust among all groups of society, including hunters?
i-da78c7bb4140273a-464	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is not a question of forcing the Government to answer questions about an individual matter. I think we can both agree that this was not the idea. It's not made that way either. The question is how to strengthen the rule of law and justice so that things like this do not happen. As I said before, we have judicial scrutiny, but it is quite clear that it is flawed. We've seen that. It is an attentive case that is being debated and which actually reduces confidence in the judiciary. I think it is serious that only half of the Swedish population have confidence in the police and even fewer have confidence in prosecutors. We elected representatives must take that on board. How can we correct that? How can we increase confidence quickly? We do not do that when it is flawed as it has been when a person has been in custody for over a month. We need to get to grips with this, and we need to ensure that it feels safe for people and that they have confidence in the police and prosecutors throughout the chain of justice. It is by far the most important challenge we have right now, along with the other challenges we have talked about earlier today.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-469	Madam President, I would like I note that in recent years the police have had the fastest increase in confidence by the authorities we are discussing right now. As far as I can look back, until 2007, the Police Authority has never had as much confidence as it is now. My role is to support the expansion of the Police Authority. It is about ensuring that they become stronger and more locally present throughout Sweden with a historical investment in the police. The target is 10,000 more police employees by 2024. There is no large authority that grows at the rate that the Police Authority does during these years. I believe that this is the most important thing we can do to ensure that the police have a local presence and a position of trust in the local community, which allows confidence to continue to grow in the way it is doing right now. When it comes to trust in the judicial system and audits, I have confidence in the authorities and audit functions that exist in Sweden and that have also examined this matter.
i-da78c7bb4140273a-473	Madam President, I would like In the fine Swedish democracy we have freedom of expression. We have freedom of opinion. As a citizen, I have the right to criticise the authorities. I have the right to write books. I have the right to be deeply critical of a policy pursued. I have the right to be deeply critical of how authorities act. As a citizen, I have the right to mock, if I do so in a nice way. I have the right to be active in the public debate. I have the right to do this without the risk of reprisals. This is the case in the fine Swedish rule of law, of which we should be proud. As elected representatives, we have a responsibility to ensure that individual citizens do not even have a suspicion that they are being subjected to reprisals by the state because they have expressed strong opinions on a matter, because they have strong opinions. We shall all fight for this right in all contexts. When it comes to this right, we should be proud of Swedish society. For the same reason, we do not want a Minister of the Interior to be able in any way to influence the application of law in individual cases. That is the case in dictatorship-like states. But it is important that we remain vigilant and that we, as elected representatives, ensure that we protect the right and the possibility for individuals to exercise their freedom of expression and opinion. You shouldn't even risk being put in jail for a month for opinions you've had, for example. I have no idea if this is the case. But I note that there are cases in Sweden where someone has been detained for a very long time, when the police have one version and the prosecutor has another and the two versions are simply not compatible. Let us safeguard the rule of law in Sweden! Thank you for a good debate!
i-da78c7bb4140273a-478	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate. We agree that there is a regulatory framework in Sweden to be followed, and there is legislation to be followed. In the event of a breach of the legislation, it is examined, and there may be sanctions. That's how it should be, and there shouldn't be political interference there, and I'm grateful for that. I will conclude by stating that the judiciary is currently strengthening its confidence. I want to continue such a positive development as we have discussed here, and I believe that it is best done on my part by implementing the greatest security effort in modern times with a growing police authority that will be closer to the citizens, solving more crimes and creating more security around Sweden.
