i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-0	Madam President, I would like Mr Arin has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the police authorities are more able to expel people under coercion. In order to maintain a humane, legally secure and long-term sustainable migration policy, those who, after a legal review for their asylum reasons, have had a decision to refuse must return as quickly as possible. The return shall take place primarily on a voluntary basis but otherwise under coercion. In recent years, the government has taken a series of measures to increase return, both voluntary and coercive. Since 2014, more than 80 000 former asylum seekers have left Sweden. It is, on average, over 1 100 per month. Several regulatory letters state that the Police Authority will continue to implement more expulsion decisions. Returning liaison officers have been deployed in embassies in several key countries, including Afghanistan. The detention capacity has been gradually increased since 2016 and now amounts to 5,28 seats, which is an increase of just over 100 per cent since 2016. As it is urgent that return should take place as much as possible on a voluntary basis, an opportunity was introduced in 2017 for the Police Authority to return a case to the Migration Agency if it turns out that the person wants to contribute to a voluntary return. This approach frees up resources for the Police Authority, which would otherwise have to handle matters that might as well be handled by the Migration Agency. Since 2018, the Police Authority has also been given increased opportunities to carry out workplace inspections, which has contributed to the increase in the number of such inspections and the fact that the police find more people who stay away. Furthermore, the government has ensured that it has been possible to carry out expulsions and expulsions under coercion to countries to which it has been difficult in the past, such as Afghanistan and Morocco. On-the-spot liaison officers working to facilitate return have been posted to embassies in several key countries. The government continues to have an ongoing dialogue with relevant countries of origin. We also support the joint effort to strengthen readmission cooperation with these countries, which is ongoing at EU level through, among other things, the conclusion of readmission agreements and other agreements. I therefore note that a number of measures have been taken in the area of return in recent years. It has also improved the ability of the Political Authority to carry out its work in implementing removal decisions. The current situation of covid-19 also poses specific challenges in terms of return. These include the possibility of holding persons in custody and of executing expulsion orders. The government continues to follow the question.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-10	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much to Minister for Migration Morgan Johansson for coming to this House today. The idea was that we should have had this interpellation debate in March. But then came covid-19. For this reason, I chose to postpone the interpellation debate so that the government could free up resources for more important things. But this was the last opportunity to have the debate. If we hadn't had it now, I'd have to withdraw the interpellation. For this reason, the Minister for Migration is here and responds to my interpellation. Right now, we are in a situation where airspace is closed. Or it is not closed, but there is not much air traffic, because we have a pandemic all over the world that is reaping lives. But, Madam President, the Swedish National Audit Office had a pull with us in the Social Security Committee on how Swedish return operations have worked since ‐ 98. It wasn't really a draw, it was a total sawing of how the Swedish authorities work with return. Let me give just one example. During 2019 Swedish police carried out 3 417 forced expulsions. It can be compared to Norwegian police, which carried out 4 157. Sweden has, as has been known, the highest reception in the Nordic countries, that is, we have a higher reception of asylum seekers than Norway has. Sweden has about the same level of reception as our Nordic neighbours together. Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson, the Minister for Migration, says that over 80 000 have left Sweden. Yes, but according to the parliamentary investigation service, at least twice should have left Sweden. There are some who have left the country voluntarily or have not been able to register, but Sweden should have control over its internal and external border control. We can look at something else. The political authority's annual report shows that there are major problems and costs in having border controls. This calls for a large amount of resources. If you are out in the business talking to border guards in the field you hear that there is a problem. Not all police officers in external service have access to the Wilma system, which strikes at internal or external border control. This means, among other things, that one does not work effectively operationally. This means that the chain of responsibility is distributed within the authority. The Swedish National Audit has criticism of having old computer systems. It's blunt in the authority. The systems of the three authorities, i.e. the Migration Agency, the Prison Service and the Police Authority, are not talking to each other fully. It's old systems. This means that the system itself has built-in errors and problems that make the return operation not work properly. The government writes regulation letters-- that's how it works. But then it will also be implemented, and it will work operationally. I do not believe that the Minister for Migration and his office write bad regulatory letters, but the regulatory letters must be put into practice. That's where I have criticism. Madam President, I would like What measures does the Minister of Migration intend to take when, as a nation, as a Europe and as a world, we are over the pandemic and when we are able to uphold the right of asylum? It is therefore a question of whether the person who receives a yes receives a yes and that the person who receives a ‘no' receives a ‘no'. When you have a no, you must return quickly. One of the pillars of regulated immigration is that a yes is a yes and that a no is a no.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-19	Madam President, I would like First of all, I should like to thank Mr Arin for the flexibility of the interpellation debate. We have had to focus on some other things during the spring. In fact, however, this does not mean that the departure or return has halted in this situation. We have been able to carry out trips even during this spring. I believe that in May there were as many as 200 outbounds. You should compare that to a normal month in the last six years. There has then been about 1 100 per month. Thus, even during this spring, we have been able to carry out a large number of trips. Then Arin Karapet has a high tone when it comes to the Swedish National Audit Office. No, of course it wasn't a sawing. The Swedish National Audit Office had comments, and I had comments – these we are working on. But the truth is, Madam President, that Sweden, compared to many other countries, is one of the most effective countries when it comes to carrying out trips for real. There are many countries that talk about readmission and expatriation, but Sweden actually implements them for real. If you count from when a return ticket is posted until it really leads to an exit, the EU average is just over 40%. For Sweden, it is just over 60 per cent on average over the last ten years. Sweden is one of the countries that are able to make the most return trips as a proportion of the cases that are posted, although we often work with countries with which we have found it difficult to cooperate. Indeed, many other EU countries do not. Mr Arin mentioned the figure of 80 000. That is true: 80 000 former asylum seekers have left Sweden in the last six years, 1 100 a month. We can now carry out return trips to countries where it was not possible to do so in the past. Morocco is one such example. When we took office five years ago, it was almost impossible to make a return trip to Morocco. Many remember what the situation was like in Nordstan in Gothenburg and around Centralen in Stockholm, where we had some Moroccan young people who had often been drifting around Europe for many years. They were pretty bad in many ways, one might say, and also very crime-active. It was a huge problem in those years, partly because we simply could not get any cooperation with Morocco. We have that now, starting in 2017. This was one of the first questions that I and former Minister for the Interior Anders Ygeman addressed when we took office in 2014. The Moderates did not care at all about this during their reign, but when we took office we made the necessary contacts, and now we are working together with Morocco. Since 2017, we have been able to carry out over 100 trips a year to Morocco, almost 400 in total during these years. It is now also considerably fewer Moroccans who come to Sweden, because you know that there is a risk of being sent home if you come here. This is therefore a direct effect of our work in that part. Another country was Afghanistan. The Alliance government didn't care about working with Afghanistan. But we got a readmission agreement with Afghanistan in 2016 that is now working well, and last year we had 450 readmissions to Afghanistan. This does not mean that everything is peace and joy; on the contrary, we have some problem countries with which we must continue to work, such as Iran, Iraq and Lebanon, to name just three. I will therefore take the initiative of inviting the ambassadors of these three countries to continue a dialogue on how we can continue to deepen cooperation so that they also increasingly begin to receive their own citizens when they are rejected from Sweden.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-29	Madam President, I would like We have had an interpellation debate on this subject several times, so sometimes we can both predict what the other will say. That's how it works. If I may continue with the reply of the Minister for Migration, Madam President, the government has pushed through two separate legislations in the form of two secondary legislations. The Delegation for Migration Studies has pointed out that, among other things, this type of special legislation makes return worse. We can be the best in the class in the EU, and the government takes credit to the chest and says that 80 000 have left the country since they took office in 2014. Yes, but Parliament's investigation service says that about 160,000 would have left. This means by definition that Sweden does not have control of its internal and external borders. That's one thing what the alliance government did until 2014. But the Swedish people voted for a new government. Morgan Johansson is part of that government, and that means that his government is ultimately responsible for Sweden's internal and external border control. Yes, we now have agreements with Morocco and Afghanistan, and I wish Morgan Johansson good luck in his meetings with Iran, Iraq and Lebanon. Iran and Iraq are two of the countries that the Swedish National Audit Office points to where it is difficult to return. There we have moderates of a proposal that aid could be conditional. I'll stay there because I don't have much time left. There is one person behind every politician, and I would like to wish Morgan Johansson a nice midsummer because I do not think we will see each other before then. He's told me before about his family, and I hope they get to spend time together, because it's been some tough months. I would also like to wish the President a pleasant midsummer.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-35	Madam President, I would like On the substance of the matter, I say that Sweden has an effective return in relation to the other EU countries. I am not saying that we are the best in the class in Europe; I dare not say that. However, I dare say that over the last ten years we have had a much higher proportion of cases that are being put up for repatriation that are also being carried out and that people can actually go home to the countries from which they come if they have received a rejection. That's what I'm saying. I point to Morocco, and I point to Afghanistan. I am also saying today that we must continue to work with Lebanon, Iran and Iraq and that I will take the initiative in that part. I will also take the initiative with regard to the European system. There the European Commission is on its way with its migration package. We have a close dialogue with the Commissioner responsible, who is Ylva Johansson. I'll see her next week. There I will also address the issues of exit. We know that the Afghanistan Agreement on behalf of Sweden came into being in an environment in which the EU acted by putting pressure on those countries which have been problems and which have not received their own citizens. This initiative is called Joint Way Forward, which allowed Sweden to sign a bilateral agreement with Afghanistan, among other countries. When a new migration package is on its way, I would like to press for the European Commission to take up this issue once again, because there is a great deal of support among the Member States in this. We can identify some of the countries with which the EU Member States generally have problems and say that we must increase the pressure on those very countries so that they receive their own citizens, for example. Such a dialogue will, of course, be conducted with the Commission in the coming weeks. I would like to remind you once again that we in Sweden have made quite strong efforts to locate those who are staying here illegally, pointing to the workplace inspections. There are rogue employers who employ people who do not have the right to reside in Sweden and exploit their plight. They get to work for 30 kroner an hour and live in a basement. It is simply unacceptable, and that is the background, among other things, to the fact that in 2018 we increased the police's possibilities for workplace inspections. We also doubled the fine so that an employer who hires people who do not have the right to be in Sweden and exploit their situation now gets the fine considerably higher than before. This has resulted in the police having been able to work more efficiently. As a result, we have filled our detention sites. We have doubled the number of detention places from just over 200 to over 500, but we have seen that these places too have been filled up quite quickly. We therefore need to increase that capacity as well, and the Migration Agency has such a mission. This is a problem that every country has. Sweden is not North Korea. We don't have exit checks. There is no police officer standing to see who is leaving Sweden. Nor do we have hermetically sealed boundaries. It does not have an open western country, and that is why we will have to live with the fact that there will always be a problem with the person who has been rejected remaining in the EU for some time. That is why we must ensure that we have the most effective means possible. Hermetically sealed boundaries would mean a completely different model of society, and at least I can't stand for that. You have to carry that with you, too. Of course, I would also like to thank Mr Arin for the interpellation and wish him and his family a pleasant summer to come.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-45	Madam President, I would like I can inform the Minister of Migration that I will return when Parliament reopens after the summer. Then there will be questions about how the authorities should cooperate and how Sweden becomes more effective in its return activities. I very much hope that the Social Democrats dare to put a hard on their government colleagues in the Green Party and ensure that return is an important part of what the parliamentary committee will come up with. I once again wish everyone in this House a pleasant summer and everyone stays healthy.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-47	Madam President, I would like I have nothing more to add.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-48	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me what measures I intend to take to curb the development of violent crimes against young people, about the reasons for the development and how the government has acted to counteract contempt for Swedes as a group. Serious violent crimes can never be accepted, regardless of their motives and who the perpetrator is. Therefore, the government has taken a number of measures to curb gang crime and crimes against children and young people. The police authority is being expanded considerably, with the target of 10,000 more employees between 2016 and 2024. So far, the Police Authority has increased by some 3,500 employees, and in just one year the number of police officers has increased by nearly 400. The government continues to implement measures under the 34-punk ts programme against gang crime. These include improved investigative measures when children are suspected of crime, increased resources for LVU placements and early social interventions for children and young people at risk. A bill on a new sanction for young offenders, known as youth monitoring, has been submitted to the Riksdag. It will be decided in this House next week. A proposal to abolish youth reduction for 18 to 20-year-olds for crimes with a minimum sentence of one year's imprisonment will be referred. The 34-point programme also includes increased penalties for recruitment of young people to crime and for the transfer of drugs. These are measures aimed at halting the growth of criminal gangs and environments. However, tackling juvenile delinquency also requires action from many other actors, including social services and schools. The most effective way to prevent children and young people from choosing or getting into crime is to offer something better, such as a good education. During the last term of office, the government provided over SEK 35 billion to health care, school and care. 100,000 more are now working in welfare. Sweden should be a country free from racism and hate crime, no matter who it targets. 97% of reports of hate crimes involving xenophobic or racist motives relate to crimes against minority groups in society. But legislation does not distinguish between Swedes and immigrants in this respect. If a robbery or other offence has as a motive to offend the victim because of his or her Swedish origin, the same criminal law applies as if the offence was directed against a person from a minority group. Finally, it can also be noted that the development of the youth group is not clear. The number of young people prosecuted for crime has decreased by 30 per cent in ten years, and the number of young people treated in hospitals due to violence has decreased by over 50 per cent. There is therefore much evidence that we are dealing with crimes committed by a limited group of young people, which also suggests that development should be turned around with the right efforts aimed at these people.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-57	Madam President, I would like Before the current pandemic broke out, one of the hottest topics of the social debate was youth robbery with humiliation. Naturally, this subject has since become somewhat obscured. However, this does not mean that the perpetrators of juvenile robbery or other serious abuse have chosen to pause their activities and completely change their behaviour. On the contrary, they may have had an excellent opportunity to commit crimes when fewer adults suppressed crime through their presence outside. Nothing indicates that immigrant youths who before the pandemic saw hatred for Sweden and Swedes as part of their personality would have revalued that world image just because their recreation centre has been closed for a couple of months. Madam President, I would like My point is that juvenile delinquency and the widespread Swedish hostility among some young people with immigrant backgrounds was a problem before the pandemic, has continued to be a problem during the pandemic and will remain a problem after the pandemic if we do not take sufficient political initiatives to put an end to it. In view of this, I find it remarkable that Morgan Johansson, in his response to my interpellation, is actively trying to undermine and embellish this problem. He does this by pointing out that the number of young people prosecuted for crime has decreased over the last ten years. Madam President, I would like It may sound amazing, but in my opinion it is not appropriate to engage in so-called cherry-picking of statistics in order to strengthen one's world view. Brå's statistics on prosecuted persons account for the prosecution decisions taken by prosecutors and courts, i.e. conviction decisions, approved criminal prosecutions and announced prosecutions. The fact that fewer are being prosecuted may therefore mean that we have failed to prosecute criminal youths or that fewer people have the courage to report them. It is by no means proof that fewer crimes are committed. If, however, we look at the statistics for the crimes I mainly focus on in my interpellation, we see a negative trend. Statistics from Brå show that the number of reported robberies against young people under the age of 18 has doubled between 2016 and 2019. Last year, 2 484 juvenile robberies were reported. At the same time, of course, there is reason to suspect that the number of darkness is great. In addition, a majority of ninth graders report that they have been subjected to crime. In my role as a youth politician, I have heard countless horror stories in this area from all over the country. Although the crimes young people have been subjected to have varied in substance, one issue has been constant, namely their perception that politics is doing too little, if anything, to get redress and regain security in their everyday lives. Morgan Johansson certainly mentions some good measures in his response, but I refuse to believe that a government whose Prime Minister declares humiliation robbery with previous governments' tax cuts has what it takes to properly deal with the situation. The Swedish democrats have consistently had a more sober view of the situation and led to developments in the area of criminal policy. Madam President, I would like In view of the fact that we do not seem to share views on developments in this area, I would like a yes or no from the Minister on the question of whether he believes that developments are moving in the right direction.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-66	Madam President, I would like First of all, I can say that it is a matter of course for the vast majority of people to fight the crimes. There are no differences of opinion on this issue. I've seen the police working hard this spring against the kind of perpetrators we're talking about. Tobias Andersson prefers statistics. I have statistics, too. It shows that the number of robberies against young people in the spring has fallen sharply. From January to May, the number of robberies decreased by 14 per cent. In May alone, the number of muggings against young people has fallen by 35 per cent. This, of course, can be partly linked to the coronapndemine. We see some of the problems there too, and we see a general trend that the number of reported crimes is decreasing. But the crime category of robbery is one of the crimes that decline most. I also believe that it can be linked to some of the raids that the police have made where they have arrested and convicted a number of perpetrators. This brings me back again to the issues, namely the importance of the police having the resources to intervene against such crimes. Now the police resources are being increased. There will be 10,000 more employees in the police force by 2024. Already the police structure has increased with about 4,000 employees. Just today, another 600 police officers are leaving the training. I can take this opportunity to welcome them particularly into the business if they see this debate at once. But they probably don't because they might be up to something else today. But it's still about 600 new cops. For every six months, we see the impact of the major efforts made during the last parliamentary term, when, among other things, police training was increased. We're training almost three times as many police officers now as five years ago. Here, of course, we will have to continue with resource reinforcements. We will also have to continue to review criminal law, including for robbery. I would like to see a situation in which we are tightening up the penalties for robberies and also increasing the possibilities of arrest for robberies so that those who commit this type of crime are simply arrested more and more in anticipation of trial. We did so with the serious weapons crimes, which have been very effective. We've gotten a lot of the most criminally active individuals off the streets. I want to do it too when it comes to the robberies. At the same time, we both know, Tobias Andersson, that this is not really what we are talking about here. It is not really the crimes that the Swedish Democrats are against; it is immigration. That is what separates us in the debate. It doesn't matter to me whether you're black or white. If you commit crimes, you should be caged, and it should be done on exactly the same terms, regardless of your background. Crime must be combated in exactly the same way. The Swedish democrats have a different attitude. In practice, you only react to crimes committed by immigrants. Crimes that Swedes commit, you try to sweep under the carpet. You don't want to pay attention to them. It is because you are using criminal policy as a tool to get to grips with refugees, immigrants and minorities. It is like the Swedish Democrats' business idea. I will never fall into that trap. On the contrary, I see that we continue to fight crime in the way we do and prevent crime in the way we do, and that we do so entirely regardless of the ethnic background of the perpetrator or victim. That is how the rule of law acts.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-75	Madam President, I would like Perhaps it is a good snapshot of this government's success that Morgan Johansson's greatest success in curbing crime has been caused by a global epidemic. Several of the proposals mentioned by Morgan Johansson are good proposals, as I have previously emphasised – not least given that several of them originate from the policy of the Swedish Democrats. Of course, we appreciate Morgan Johansson taking it further into the government. But Morgan Johansson chose to move on in the debate and get to grips with the problem of Swedish hostility. It is a problem which he detracts from in his reply by pointing out that the majority of reports of hate crimes involving xenophobic or racist motives relate to crimes against minority groups. That's not strange. It is no wonder that the reports are missing when it has never led to conviction that Swedes have been subjected to hate crimes. It may be theoretically possible to get a penalty for committing a hate crime against a Swede, but it seems impossible in practice. It has not led to conviction even when humiliation robbery has been filmed and it is beyond doubt that Swedish hostility has characterized the crime. Madam President, I would like What, then, is the cause of Swedish hostility among some immigrant youths? Well, a major contributory factor is that we have imported dominance and honorary behaviour from cultures where these elements are still central. The bill for this naivety must now be paid for when Swedish young people are beaten, robbed, raped and humiliated. The fact that the left-wing and violent group BLM has now taken hold in Sweden is unlikely to improve the situation. In addition to hating and attacking the police, these demonstrations have been marked by collective guilt of whites. Gothenburg, among other things, shouted white counterfuckers Madam President, I would like I can't make myself understand their obsession with skin color, but apparently the government can. Morgan Johansson's minister colleague Mikael Damberg recently chose to retweet a picture of the now known police officer who held up a sign with the text and white silence is violence, white silence is violence, with the message that it was wise and courageous of her. I do not think it is wise or courageous to blame all white people and thereby risk indirectly adding to Swedish hostility. I know George Floyd can't breathe. It's terrible. At the same time, Madam President, I would like to say that there are more people who cannot breathe and many whose fates are likely to be more relevant in a Swedish context. T ommie L indh can't breathe. Wilma Andersson can't breathe. Ebba Åkerlund can't breathe. Carola and Emil Herlin can't breathe. Elin Krantz can't breathe. This is just a sample of all those who today cannot breathe but who might have been able to do so if there had been a different policy. In addition, all those who have been attacked, beaten or raped by people who should not have been in Sweden from the beginning are added. It cannot be avoided to think that several of the victims were selected precisely because they are Swedes. If nothing else has been evident in the latest wave of humiliation robbery. Can Morgan Johansson, with respect for the victims, at least state that Swedish hostility exists and that it is a problem?
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-86	Madam President, I would like The last speech shows just once again what I said in my first reply, namely that for the Swedish Democrats the most important thing is to highlight ethnicity and whether it is about immigrants or not. For me, once again, it doesn't matter if you're black or white. If you commit a crime, then you'll be locked up. That is how the rule of law acts. But, again, it's not the crimes SD is against. It is immigration, and so you are using criminal policy as a way of trying to incite immigrants. You can hear this very clearly in Tobias Andersson's speech. For Tobias Andersson and SD, it is absolutely crucial who has committed the crime. If an immigrant has committed crimes, yes, then you highlight it and use it as an example. If a Swede has committed crimes, yes, then you sweep it under the carpet and try to sound like it has not happened. And if a Swedish democrat has committed crimes, then it will remain in this House. It is enough to look at Tobias Andersson's own parliamentary group – there is no parliamentary group that has as many sentenced members as SD's. So, again, it's not the crimes SD is against. It is immigration that SD is against. I don't think Tobias Andersson really cares about the victims in the slightest. Then he would also have reacted to the whole, that is to say to all those who are victims of crime. When it comes to incitement to ethnic groups, we can see that 97% of the reports are about crimes against minorities, while 3% are about crimes against Swedes. SD is extremely upset about the 3%, but they don't give a damn about the 97%. That's how right-wing extremists always act. They always have, in all times and in all countries. That is exactly how they use politics not to combat crime or something like that, but to divide and to portray other communities as particularly dangerous and as a threat to other people. Where it leads, we know. We know exactly what it looks like in the countries that have allowed themselves to be ruled by politicians by the character of Tobias Andersson and the Swedish Democrats – and how it ends. I would like to return briefly to the general picture of juvenile crimes, because it is also part of the Swedish Democrats' view that we have a sharp increase in juvenile crimes and that it is due to immigration. I would like to point out that this picture is not correct. It's the other way around. And it is not cherry-picking, Madam President, but it is the statistics and sources that we have to start from that point in much the same direction. For example, the number of young people suspected of stealing has halved in the last ten years. The number of young people suspected of assault has fallen by 30 percent in ten years. If we go to the Patient Register of the National Board of Health and Welfare, we see that the number of young people who have to receive hospital treatment for being subjected to violence has decreased by 53 percent in ten years – the last ten years. We are dealing with a small group of young people who commit a great many crimes. Then we'll take action against them. But do not paint it as a general trend towards increased juvenile delinquency! Actually, that's not true. Rather, everything indicates that juvenile delinquency has declined over the last ten years – while the number of immigrants and asylum seekers has increased sharply over these ten years. It remains for Tobias Andersson to explain how things work out.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-94	Madam President, I would like It is not inciting immigrants when I choose to honor people who have been murdered by foreigners. Morgan Johansson chooses to criticize states where he believes that SD-like parties govern. We should at least be able to agree that these states are not deeply influenced by the type of violent and sexual crime that we see being committed here in Sweden. It is not true that what we are mainly talking about today, youth robbery, would be going down. I have already noted that the number doubled between 2016 and 2019. Morgan Johansson seems to think that this is a limited problem and refuses to admit that it is linked to Swedish hostility. But as late as Wednesday this week, the News Agency reported about a school in Kristianstad that Kristianstadsbladet had written about. Some of the anti-Swedish messages that that was the practice of conveying to young Swedes were stated to be: stagnebög, stannehora, all Swedish girls are whores, I'm going to piss on the Bible. I choose, Madam President, to refrain in this House from speaking the worst cases described. This is the everyday life of too many young people in today's Sweden. I ask again: does Morgan Johansson not see this problem? Doesn't he want to map it? Doesn't he want to act to put an end to it? So far in this debate Morgan Johansson has chosen exclusively to shift the focus, talk about completely irrelevant things to the debate and consistently refrain from admitting that Swedish hostility even exists – let alone rejecting it. I give Morgan Johansson another chance to at least admit that there are obstacles to Swedish hostility in Swedish society. It would've been nice.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-99	Madam President, I would like It cannot be considered irrelevant to point out that youth robberies have fallen sharply in the spring – 14% decrease, and only in May 35% decrease. On the contrary, this is highly relevant to Tobias Andersson's interpellation because he writes about the youth robbery. Yes, there may be a corona effect, but there may also be an effect of the fact that the police have now really been hard on the type of organizations or gangs that are engaged in this and managed to arrest and also prosecute them. That's exactly how we're going to work. But again – Tobias Andersson's rhetoric is not about the crimes themselves, but about inciting immigrants. When I point out that 97% of all reports of incitement to ethnic groups relate to crimes against minorities, while 3% relate to crimes against Swedes, Tobias Andersson is once again very upset over the 3% but does not give a damn about the 97%. It does not matter to me whether you incite or commit a crime in which the motive is anti-immigrant; in other words, criminal law must always be very strict. If you incite and the motive is Swedish hostility, criminal law should also look very harshly at this. The same rules apply regardless of your origin. But I also understand that for the Swedish Democrats it does not really matter. For you, the important thing is to label people who have a different ethnicity and portray them as threats and as dangerous. Every country that goes that way, Madam President, and lets itself be governed by this type of ideology, will be divided, and it will end very, very badly. There are plenty of historical examples of this.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-103	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked me whether I believe that housing construction in Sweden is at a satisfactory level or whether the government intends to take measures to increase it, how I see the government setting a national target for housing construction in real terms and whether such a target will be introduced. I have to say at the outset that Larry Söder is asking his questions when we are in the midst of one of the deepest crises that one of us has experienced, with far-reaching health and economic consequences. The current pandemic is causing great suffering and too many people's premature deaths. The Government prioritises measures to limit the spread of infection in the country and ensure resources for health care, while at the same time maintaining the functioning of socially important activities. In addition, the impact on citizens and businesses should be mitigated. The government implements a long-term sustainable housing building policy over time and has a reform agenda for increased housing construction throughout the country. Regulatory simplifications have been implemented in terms of planning and building permits, and further simplification proposals are under preparation. The investment support helps to create sustainable housing at reasonable rental levels around Sweden. So far, aid has been granted for the construction of 3 5 000 dwellings. Increased possibilities for deferred taxation of capital gains on the sale of private dwellings and the removal of interest on deferred payments contribute to increasing mobility in the housing market. A continued high level of housing construction is one of the government's top priorities. In February, the Prime Minister invited representatives of construction companies and the social partners to discuss how the government can support companies' efforts to build many homes sustainably over time. The discussions were conducted in a constructive spirit and in a situation where housing construction in the country increased. As is well known, the situation changed radically a few weeks later, and the government then needed to give priority to measures that prevent construction and housing markets from slowing down to such an extent that direct costs are incurred in terms of unemployment and projecting unnecessarily. The measures for the national economy presented by the government at a rapid pace are aimed at supporting businesses and households in the acute crisis, and we are prepared to take further action. The continued functioning of the credit supply to both construction companies and households wishing to buy housing has been a priority and measures taken have contributed to the fact that, until now, neither the construction nor the turnover of the housing market has stopped. This does not mean, in order to answer Larry Söder's question, that I believe that when we sum up 2020, housing construction is at a satisfactory level. As far as quantitative targets for housing construction are concerned, no work is under way to formulate them in the Government Office.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-108	Madam President, I would like In his reply, the Minister is offended by the fact that I am interested in housing policy and future construction and ask questions about this in the situation we are now in with a pandemic. I can say by simple means that even the Minister during the pandemic has dealt with housing policies that are forward-looking. On 25 April, the Government appointed a special investigator to investigate free leasing in new production. On 8 May, the government set up a study on social housing policy. The difference for the Minister as to whether time is right or wrong to want to push housing policy forward is perhaps who is interested and who is asking questions. However, my view is that, as an elected representative of an opposition party, I have the task of examining, pushing and asking questions, in my case, on housing policy. In my review, I can see that housing construction over the last three years has decreased significantly while the number of homes needed has increased. There is therefore a housing crisis in Sweden, which the Minister does not mention any measures to deal with. In the pandemic we are now in, too, overcrowding has clearly proved to be a problem that we have to deal with in the longer term. At a press conference on 13 May, the Minister said, among other things, that 41 000 new homes are expected to be built during the year. It sounded like the Government was satisfied with that figure. This is clearly lower than the need and also lower than Boverket's forecast for 2020, namely 50,000. This is clearly lower than the number of homes that need to be built for the needs each year according to Boverket, i.e. 64 000 dwellings. This is not good enough. My aim with the interpellation today was for the Minister and I to agree that it is not good enough to build well below the need and to jointly discuss measures to bring up housing. Perhaps we could jointly conclude that the Government and the Riksdag need to set some kind of volume figure as a goal and thus be able to work with measures to achieve that goal. To my surprise, however, the Minister for Housing is not satisfied with the number of homes built in Sweden but does not want to set a goal to work towards. I believe, however, that in all activities, whether it is the construction of boats, cars or houses, it is good to have an objective in mind, to be able to evaluate but also to measure whether the measures and keys available are working satisfactorily. For my part, I believe that the number of homes is too low, and I think that the Government should aim that Sweden should at least build according to the needs reported by Boverket. If that were the case, I can see that the credit restrictions are too strict because more and more people are not able to buy their home. I can see that many rural municipalities find it difficult to reconcile the economy in terms of new construction, and therefore measures are needed. I note that many municipalities do not have the level of planning needed to meet an increase in housing construction. Housing construction is one of the government's top priorities," says the Minister in his answer. My question is: how do we view it as citizens when the result is so disappointing?
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-117	Madam President, I would like If the result is now disheartening in Larry Söder's eyes, one might wonder how he views the housing policy carried out during the eight years in power of the bourgeois government, when it was built considerably less than in the six years that we have had a red-green government. We're really talking about a hugely lower level. If it is so important to set a housing policy target for how many homes are to be built, you can ask why you did not take matters into your own hands and set such a goal during the eight years, when the Christian Democrats were responsible for housing policy for a large part of the years. It is important to keep our focus on the fact that we have had a hugely difficult crisis in Sweden – a health crisis and a crisis for human life. As a result, the government has had to give priority to major and historic rapid efforts. We have so far invested SEK 250 billion in the financial resources needed for society to continue to function. Not least, it has been important to ensure that we do not get a repeat of what happened during the financial crisis, when it was a bourgeois government. At that time, the credit market was brought together, which had a very strong impact on housing construction and the housing market. Therefore, within the framework of the Financial Stability Council – the Government together with the Riksbank, the Swedish National Debt Office and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority – we have also taken a historic effort to continue to have a functioning credit market, i.e. that you can borrow when buying your home and that construction companies can also get loans to make housing investments. This also means that we have not seen any cuts on the housing market, which has otherwise been very common in crises that have affected our country in the past. We now have a much more active housing policy than in previous years when there has been more market thinking, which has been the recipe of the Christian Democrats and the Alliance. For example, we have investment aid, which means that we now spend billions each year on producing the type of housing that has not been lifted by market forces, that is, small and energy-efficient rental apartments with a reasonable rent level. I have to ask you a question about setting targets. To me it smells like a return to old-fashioned housing policy, when it was the state and politics that were completely governing the housing market. During the days of the million - year program, a goal was set and large public expenditures were made to finance housing construction. Is this what Larry Söder wants to come back to? Otherwise, we have moved away from politically controlled housing construction in Sweden and thought it should be more of the demand that should govern housing construction. I wonder if Larry Söder dreams of more of a plan economic housing policy with major social policy efforts for housing construction, or does Larry Söder think that the market should also be involved in influencing housing construction? If you now want to set a goal, you must have an idea of what tools to put in the hands of the government and parliament to achieve the goal. I also find the comparison with the car industry interesting. Does Sweden have a goal for how many cars to build? I have not seen such a goal under either the red-green or the bourgeois government. I think it's very strong when Larry Söder takes on breast tones about housing in the future and that a goal would solve the problems that we have. On the other hand, major social investments are needed, and Larry Söder and the Christian Democrats owe the answer. One of the most important measures to increase housing construction is to expand the infrastructure. We have also had a plan that previously had a common understanding of, Sweden's negotiations, where hundreds of thousands of homes would be built in connection with the construction of new main rails for high-speed trains and also made investments in the metropolitan areas. The Christian Democrats say no to this. The Christian Democrats do not want to implement those plans and thus say no to hundreds of thousands of new homes in Sweden. Then you can ask yourself what a goal is really worth.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-127	Madam President, I would like The Minister says that it is difficult to set a target and then take action to achieve it because it is the market that controls a lot and the municipalities that manage the plan monopoly. My intention is not that the state should completely take over this. But it must be felt that the state also has a coordination responsibility, just as we now see in the pandemic that the state sometimes has to have a coordination responsibility in one way or another. I think it is extremely important that you have a goal, a speech that you work towards in order to know if things are going well or bad. I and the Minister can discuss whether it is good with 41 000 homes, and I can think it is a crisis while the Minister thinks the figures are quite good. But the problem is that if we do not have a goal, we do not really know what the initial figure we had at the beginning of the year and what measures have been good or bad. The Minister returns to this with investment support every time. But numbers don't lie. During the time the investment aid has been in place, housing construction in Sweden has actually decreased. I note that investment aid does not serve as an incentive to increase housing construction. We have to face that. It works in one way, and that is that the subsidy goes right into the last line of the production companies in the profit and loss account, which I think is quite wrong. Other measures must be found to increase housing construction in Sweden. Then it is quite right that we Christian Democrats are against high-speed trains. I think the Minister should go home to the Government Office and ask what the transport plan is for the next period ahead, because it has not yet come to Parliament, and we are waiting for it. Perhaps it is this responsibility that must be demanded first, before we are required to be responsible for whether we say yes or no to high-speed trains. I also understand that the pandemic is taking resources from all the different branches of the Government Office. I fully understand that. I am humbled by the work that is being done, but in the end, housing is not being built for a month in a pandemic, but is being built for six years. If we want something to happen, it's about long-term work to be handled all the time. These are long-term measures that need to be put in place in order for us to re-establish housing. We note that housing construction in Sweden has decreased over the last three years. We can also note that overcrowding has proved to be a problem for Sweden when we have crises such as we have now. Then we have to deal with this one way or another. I have said on several occasions that I think we should review the credit restrictions. One measure that the state could take is to see if the municipalities are ready to plan so that the number of constructions can be increased? I do not believe that the municipalities have it to the extent that would be relevant and possible. How can we encourage municipalities to have better planning preparedness so that we can get up the housing building? How can we stimulate those rural municipalities that see a need for new construction but have to write down half the value of the properties directly and do not get the economy together to build new housing? I think we need to find measures together. I do not think the Minister can do it on his own, but I believe that Parliament will do it together. I am not looking for the Minister to come up with a long list and talk about what is being done and that it will be great, but I am looking for the Minister to actually do what he has promised once before. It is about housing policy talks where we in all eight parties sit down and discuss how to resolve this. If the Minister does this, I will be very pleased and happy, because then we can talk and jointly come up with measures to increase housing construction.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-136	Madam President, I would like The kind of plan economic thinking that a housing goal expresses on the part of the Christian Democrats has great practical difficulties. Larry Söder compares with Boverket's forecasts. There it is very easy for those who want to go in and look at how the forecasts have changed over time. They have changed very strongly with only a few years' interval. This is because you weigh in things such as how many people move to Sweden, how many move from Sweden, what it looks like with birth rates and with population growth and so on. This makes it better to have that kind of forecast that allows you to get an indication of how much the need for housing is. This is also something that the government and many others use to get guidance on what needs to be done and where we need to deploy additional resources. That is also why we have made efforts to build more housing in every year with a red-green government and an environmental-partisan housing minister than in any one year of the bourgeois government's time in power. There was a strong boom during parts of these ate, but even so, it was not close to having a housing building located at the levels we now have. Larry Söder is also fond of counterfactual history, that is, he knows exactly what would have happened if investment aid had not been introduced. I think we should be too good for that in this House. I think we should listen to those who make use of it, and, for example, Sweden's Municipalities and Regions have made evaluations that show that housing had not been built in the way that is now done if the support had not existed. It had not been built as many dwellings, it had not been built with the low rent level and it had not been built housing with equal environmental ambitions. I think Larry Söder has a responsibility as a spokesperson for housing policy to listen to those who use this support and not just to their own ideological notions. It is fascinating that the Christian Democrats in this House are saying no to the biggest housing policy reform we could carry out, that is to say, to carry out the Swedish negotiation that the bourgeois government actually started once. This is about cooperation, and Larry Söder says that he wants to have, where different commitments are made. The state undertakes to build new main railway lines, and municipalities throughout the country undertake to build housing and develop many new housing projects. This will also relieve the overheated housing markets of metropolitan areas, where it is difficult to accommodate many new homes. Effective commuting opportunities will allow much larger geographical areas to be built. This is characteristic of the Christian Democrats. That's a lot of words. Larry Söder stands here and spreads out and pretends to be indignant that housing construction is not at a high level. But once it comes to concrete measures, the Christian Democrats say no, over and over again. They say no to large investments in infrastructure, which would allow hundreds of thousands of new homes. They say no to an active housing policy, in which we also support the construction of exactly the type of apartments needed to do something about overcrowding, that is, smaller rental apartments with a reasonable rent level so that people can afford to ask for them. That's where they say no. It's characteristic of the Christian Democrats that they like to talk, but to act is not as good at. Let me also remind you that we have had housing policy talks during the time of the Red Green Government in power. However, the bourgeois parties chose to leave these talks. This may not be the best way to achieve a common approach to housing policy.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-145	Madam President, I would like To get a little more clarity and clarity about what the Minister says, let me ask the question like this: Does the Government use Boverket's target or forecast as a benchmark for housing construction? If you do, the government has failed. If you do not, I understand that you do not find it so interesting if 40 000, 50 000 or 60 000 homes are built. Both the Minister and I know that the planning and construction of housing does not take one, two or three years. It takes an average of five to six years. So when did housing construction in Sweden begin to decline? Well, just six years after the Alliance government resigned. This means that everything that has happened since then is the responsibility of this government. Action by the government is needed to increase housing construction, and that is what I am trying to talk about. The Minister says it's just empty words. On the day the Minister says to review the credit restrictions, I will say yes, and press the green button. If the Minister wants to introduce a start-up loan, I'll say yes and press the green button. Bospar? Yes, please. Targets for the number of newly built dwellings? Yes, please. We Christian Democrats want a lot, but we also want to know where we are going and what action it is that gives effect and discuss it jointly. I do not believe that the Minister and I should stand here all the time discussing this, because it will not provide the only place to live. However, we can achieve this jointly, but then we must have some measures that we can discuss from outside and help to get through in this House. I believe in collaboration, not resistance.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-150	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder is working on breaking open doors. As a spokesperson in housing policy, Larry Söder should know that we have already paused the amortisation requirements because Sweden is currently experiencing a unique economic crisis due to the coronapndemine. It was important that we had a healthy amortisation culture in place. It has also created buffers in households' finances so that people do not have to sell their home in an economic downturn, for example if someone in the household loses their job. But now, as I said, we have a break. We work much more actively on housing policy than previous governments have done. We are investing budgetary resources in order to build the very thing that has not been built enough of, small rental apartments. If Larry Söder thought that they had a good housing policy under the bourgeois government, how did the extremely expensive houses that were basically the only thing built when people living in crowded housing with small economic margins help? Building rental apartments that have a reasonable rent level that allows people to demand them is what makes a difference, and this is what our government is investing in. We are also working on using public procurement as a tool for buying housing with lower rental levels. We are also reviewing the regulatory framework to make the construction of more homes as easy and efficient as possible. Not least, we manage to make investments and to stick to the fact that we are going to expand the railway that allows you to get hundreds of thousands of new homes all over Sweden. The Christian Democrats have been against this, then for and then against again, and such faltering and weak political leadership does not provide the conditions necessary for us to have increased housing construction in Sweden. Here we have a different focus.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-155	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson has asked me if I see that there is a problem at present with the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, MUCF, contributing to the fragmentation of society through some of the grants distributed by the agency and what measures I am prepared to take to ensure that MUCF does not contribute to the fragmentation of society through the grants distributed by the agency. Let me begin by making it clear that, as a minister, I cannot comment on the individual case which Jonas Andersson raises in his question. The examination of individual grant cases is a matter for the authorities. For the government, it is important to safeguard a free and independent civil society with a variety of organisations, activities and voices. It is a prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy. Freedom of association is one of the fundamental rights enshrined in the form of government. To ensure the existence of an independent civil society, the state supports non-profit organisations financially. I do not share Jonas Andersson's view that MUCF contributes to the fragmentation of society through the contributions that the agency distributes. MUCF distributes contributions to important purposes that enable activities that create community and trust between people. These include contributions aimed at reducing threats and hatred in public conversation, counteracting and preventing racism and intolerance, strengthening the position of LGBT people in society, supporting the independent organisation and influence of children and young people, and supporting the work of ethnic organisations on culture, language, identity and participation in society. It is in everyone's interest to safeguard the legitimacy of benefit systems. It is therefore self-evident that public funding should not go to activities that are incompatible with the fundamental values of society as formulated in the Constitution and in the international conventions on human rights. That is why the regulations governing the contribution to civil society organisations contain conditions for democracy. In March 2018, the Government appointed an investigation to review the democratic conditions in state grant regulations and the application of these conditions. The report of the investigation was submitted to the Government in June 2019 and has been referred. Work is now under way in the Government Office to deal with the proposals.
i-LZzJeJtsJv91771HJtd8JW	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Amanda Lind, for the answer to the interpellation! The fact that Swedish civil society can thrive and stand firmly on its own is something that the Swedish democrats value. Not least, this is important for all people who are involved in civil society's many different organisations and associations, where great values are created for the people involved. Civil society, of course, also has a number of positive effects on society as a whole. So far, I think Amanda Lind and I agree. It is interesting that the Minister mentions the inquiry into democratic conditions in state grant regulations. It is important that investigations of this kind not only become shelves and may collect dust at the Government Office. The Swedish Democrats welcome if the government submits proposals to the Riksdag that will enable us to more forcefully counteract the fact that various divisive and democratic organisations receive state subsidies. There are major problems in today's Sweden with divisive and democratic associations that, with the good memory of the government, receive state subsidies. We can take the Muslim study association Ibn Rushd as an example. They receive millions in state grants every year from the Council of Folkbildningsrådet, despite being linked to the Islamic Muslim Brotherhood and having regularly invited various hate preachers to their meetings. Another organization that has received contributions from MUCF and that has been questioned mediatly for its Islamist connections is SSU, the Youth League of Social Democrats, whose Skåne districts were hijacked by various Islamists. This was reported by the media a few years ago. So there are many examples of why we must continue to fight against state subsidies going to associations that divide in different ways. Madam President, I would like If the order of teaspoons is to receive state subsidies or not, I understand that the Minister cannot comment on specifically, but what I want to put my finger on is not a single organisation but a phenomenon that exists in Swedish civil society policy. There are various associations that by using right and jargon and different buzz words such as diversity, tolerance etcetera get away with a very extreme agenda. I believe that the order of teaspoons is an example of such an organisation, but there are of course others as well. Various Islamic associations, like wolves in sheep's clothing, have disguised their activities with words such as equality, diversity and so on, but many times they have conducted Islamism on the inside and received state subsidies, like Ibn Rushd, which I highlighted just now. There is a similar problem with organizations like the order of teaspoons. They use the right expressions about tolerance, diversity and so on, but then they lean against left-wing radical theories where the origin of people is entirely in focus and where white people are pointed out as blameworthy and as a group possessing a kind of inherited sin by their origin. That is why this issue is urgent. In view of this, I have to ask the Minister: does the Minister see that there is a problem in Swedish civil society policy today with organisations which in fact have an extreme agenda but which can nevertheless receive state subsidies because they use the right expression?
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-169	Madam President, I would like In his interpellation, my colleague Jonas Andersson has focused primarily on the identity-political and left-wing hate organization Teskedsorden, but there are a number of other examples of grant organisations that in the end seem exclusively segregated and create and contribute to division in Swedish society. As I had earlier today an interpellation debate with Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson regarding the robbery and hostility to Sweden, I feel that it is appropriate for me to take the floor in this interpellation debate too, to point out that, in my view, it is absurd that organisations that contribute to segregation, division and Swedish hostility can live on government subsidies. For example, it has repeatedly been on the wallpaper how MUCF's contribution to Islamism, both within Sweden's Young Muslims and within Sweden's Social Democratic Youth League. An organization that still absorbs millions of dollars annually at the expense of taxpayers is Expo, a left-wing autonomic organization whose founder Tobias Hübinette expressed, among other things, that the white race is inferior to any conceivable plane and that the western land of the white race should perish in blood and suffering. Just recently it was also discovered that the organization's employee Bilan Osman expressed the following on Facebook: Madam President, I would like On this point, I would like to ask Minister of Culture Amanda Lind whether she considers it reasonable for grants to be paid out to Expo and whether she intends to ensure that MUCF examines and investigates the organisation further for future state aid payments?
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-173	Madam President, I would like I will begin by continuing to state that it is in everyone's interests – politicians and citizens, but also civil society – that we safeguard the legitimacy of benefit systems. As I have said in this House many times before, it goes without saying that public funding should not go to activities that are incompatible with the fundamental values of society, as formulated in the Constitution and in international human rights conventions. This, Madam President, is why the regulations governing the contribution to civil society organisations already contain conditions for democracy. This has been tried. I am not going to comment or review individual organisations or cases that the Swedish Democrats describe with labels that I find remarkable, but I can see that there have been legal proceedings. MUCF has identified organisations of different nature that have been perceived in different ways to violate the democratic conditions that already exist. I believe that this is a sign that the control systems that exist actually work. If you look at the legal cases and judgments that have existed since 2016 and where organisations have then appealed against MUCF's decision, you can see that the court has shared MUCF's assessment in substance in all cases, precisely as regards the democratic conditions. As I said, in March 2018, the government set up an investigation to review the democratic conditions in urban grant regulations and the application of these conditions. In parallel with this work, work has also been carried out on a new law on support for religious communities, including the introduction of democracy conditions. The reports of both investigations have been referred and work is under way in the Government Office. We will present proposals to the Riksdag – where the Swedish Democrats can feel safe. At the same time, I state that the contribution of civil society to our society is invaluable. It must be recognised as an independent and self-evident prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy. Therefore, financial support is an important guarantor. Then it is important that there should be no doubt that those who receive subsidies for their organisation must respect democratic values – absolutely! But within this framework, it must be obvious that organisations should be free to express opinions and analyses that do not conform to the current power's own political agenda, whether it is environmental or Swedish democrats. I and the government stand for a democracy policy that is about including more in the democratic dialogue. It becomes clear to me, Madam President, that the main entry point of the Swedish Democrats is instead to control the conversation and review the views that are taking place. I believe in a living democracy in which different voices can take place, including votes that violate my own opinions or those of the Member of Parliament.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-180	Madam President, I would like First of all, I can say that I note that neither I nor my colleague Tobias Andersson really got an answer to our questions. But I thought now, to clarify my point, to mention some notable examples of what tax money is currently going to do via MUCF. I would like to highlight precisely the order of teaspoons, which has received regular subsidies from the authority, precisely because what is being done is so absurd that we simply have to let it become known. It is therefore an organisation that is completely obsessed with people's skin colour and origin, but which is financed by an authority for which Amanda Lind is responsible. The teaspoon words, for example, have a tab on their website called Whiteness. There you can read, among other things, the following under headings as a White Privilege: As white it means to be better treated in all parts of society than a non-white. You can also read the following: Racism against whites does not exist in Sweden. Under a section on whiteness on the Tesspoonsorden website you can also read definitions of different concepts. One of them is what you call a white privilege. There the order of teaspoons says that it means that you are not judged in advance. Madam President, I would like The words of teaspoon have also developed before Valentine's Day a previous year something that you vulgarly call Rassekollen, which you highlight on your website. See if your date is a pig or a valentine. There you are encouraged to politically check out your date by asking, for example, what the person thinks about a begging ban in different municipalities or whether you can stay at the Grand Hotel in Stockholm now after SD was there once a few years ago. The point from the order of teaspoons here is that if one would think any of this is okay, then one is a pig. This is an organization that does this in the name of tolerance. Madam President, I would like Statements about the whiteness of the order of teaspoons are hardly the result of any misappropriation or a single statement, but are about a pronounced and completely open attitude that one as an organisation boasts on one's website and in debate articles over and over again. This type of theory of whiteness is often encountered in some left-wing radical circles nowadays, so it is not difficult to imagine that it also occurs in other organizations besides the order of teaspoons that receive state grants. This view of whites as a group comes from a kind of left-wing thought that reminds a little of that which socialists have historically held on the bourgeoisie. It simply makes whites a legitimate goal to hate as a group. Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise that, as we all know, there is, of course, racism against all sorts of groups in Swedish society. It is reprehensible, and I clearly reject it. However, with regard to other groups, there is another consensus in society and in the political debate that it is something reprehensible. But it obviously does not do so when it comes to racism against whites and Swedes. That is why I have to raise this issue in this interpellation debate. This is very serious. What is worth adding is that the government's policy does not only allow living taxpayers to be involved in financing organisations such as the Order of the Teaspoon, but also kill Swedes, shamefully enough, through the General Inheritance Fund. You can therefore as a Swedish person with the government's policy be murdered in a deed directed against you precisely because you are Swedish. Then the National Inheritance Fund could access your money and then pay it to organizations that say that the murdered person was privileged precisely because of his origin for which the person was murdered. It is indeed a completely inhuman and sick policy. Can't Amanda Lind see that?
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-192	Madam President, I would like In fact, it is not just an individual example that I and my colleague Jonas Andersson are highlighting, but this indicates that there are major structural problems in civil society organisations that in turn are financed by various government contributions. The conspiratorial could be led to believe that the simple reason why organizations such as Expo, the order of teaspoons and others succeed in usurping state resources would be that their message and purpose is appreciated by the government represented by Amanda Lind. I do not claim that this is the case, but I would find it quite remarkable if the government were to miss the obvious shortcomings that have existed and thus not more clearly in regulatory letters and through other government management ensured that state funds are not going to segregated activities. I find it hard to believe that one has blindly escaped the obvious problem raised by me and Jonas Andersson. Therefore, a person of a more conspiratorial nature than mine could be led to believe that attention has been paid to this but actively chose to ignore it so that the government – the even more conspiratorial one might perhaps point to Amanda Lind himself as Minister of Culture – would appreciate the activities they carry out and thus look between their fingers in relation to it. Madam President, I would like In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister for Culture whether she has, in all probability, missed what we have now highlighted. If she has missed it in the past, I would like to know whether the Minister now intends to act. If she has previously been aware of the problem, I would like to know why the Minister has done nothing.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-195	Madam President, I would like I just want to repeat what I said in my introductory speech, that I do not share the reality picture that Swedish democrats Jonas Andersson and Tobias Andersson highlight that MUCF contributes to social fragmentation or, as they call it, segregation through the contributions that they distribute. I know that many Swedish democrats dream of a Sweden where we in different ways more closely control what is said in our newspapers, in our non-profit organisations or in civil society. But thankfully, most of us still agree that it is not worthy of democracy. Madam President, I would like The free and democratic society is an essential part of our democracy. We're supposed to have legally secure grant criteria-- yes. We have democracy conditions today. It has been shown to give a ruling when several organisations have been tried against this. And we are now working towards a clear, uniform and long-term democracy that will apply to the whole broad civil society. It is self-evident to me that public contributions should not go to activities that are not compatible with the fundamental democratic values of society. But, Madam President, I find it remarkable that the Swedish Democrats are highlighting their own political views, short-term political interests, and therefore in various ways wanting to direct the support that goes to the society. We must tolerate different opinions being expressed, including those with which Jonas Andersson himself does not sympathise. It is the very essence of a free, open and multifaceted society and civil society. I note that I and the government stand for a completely different democracy and civil society policy from that of the Swedish Democrats.
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-200	Madam President, I would like I agree with Amanda Lind that the government has a completely different view of democracy when it comes to civil society policy. It is because with your policy different Islamists and racial professors can get these contributions. That is why we are drawing attention to this issue in this debate. Unlike you, we Swedish democrats do not think that Islamists should be able to receive state subsidies. Let me mention a few of the countless crimes that Swedes have been subjected to in Sweden precisely because they are Swedes. The foreign citizen and Ikea murderer Abraham Ukbagabir stabbed a mother with a knife and her grown-up son completely unprovoked in 2015 inside Ikea in Västerås. The killer himself has said that he chose the victims because they looked Swedish. I can also mention the controversial case of 18-year-old Liam, which the media reported earlier this year when the robbery took a large place in the public debate. Liam was first robbed and beaten by two 16-year-olds with foreign background and then urinated on while the robbers filmed the whole thing. At the same time, he was called a bastard during the robbery. Let me also mention the high-profile Black Lives Matter demonstrations that have also come to Sweden. People have during these aggressive demonstrations in Gothenburg chanted: white counterfuckers, black power and similar things. At the same time as this type of serious crime and outcome occurs against Swedes precisely because they are Swedes, the government is thus fattening various grant contractors, so that they can go around to schools like the Order of Tesked and propagate towards school children so that they can chase away all the thoughts of them that there would be racism against Swedes. It's absolutely horrible. Therefore, I wonder: Does the Minister think that there is even racism against Swedes, or against white people, in today's Sweden? And if the answer is yes, why is this not visible at all in the government's civil society policy?
i-5dea256ff4e7f1cb-206	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to highlight the importance of a broad and independent civil society, which, of course, should respect fundamental democratic values in order to benefit from the support of the public, but which must also have the right to different views even on ideological issues and which should not have to adapt to the whims of existing or ruling policies in order to be able to gain support for its own independent organisation. I would like to say that it is, of course, terrible deeds that the Member of Parliament is highlighting. I must also say that I think it is under any criticism to use these terrible events to throw out straws and undermine and criticise civil society policy. There's no such connection. I think that the Swedish Democrats should be ashamed to use this kind of argument in this House. Democracy conditions already exist as a criterion for supporting civil society. We are now working to sharpen this democracy criterion further, and I know that there is strong support for this in this House. To control opinions that exist and review them in different ways on the basis of our own ideological basis, I think we should be too good for. We should realise that there may be opinions and opinions about racism and other things that the Swedish Democrats or the Green Party may disagree with. Nevertheless, we think it is important that there is a variety of voices in the debate. Madam President, I would like Free and democratic union life is a fundamental part of our democracy, with independence at its core. The state supports society to ensure that it exists, not to promote short-term political interests. Many votes must be allowed in this.
