i-930e02eac663f054-10	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I intend to act in favour of a consolidated printed edition in Swedish of the regulations relating to the IMDG Code and thus create the conditions for judicial review in the event of shortcomings in the handling of dangerous goods. I answered on 9 September this year a question concerning the same thing from Thomas Morell. I stressed then and would like to stress once again that the Council considers the safety of ports and ships to be important. There are many factors that have a bearing on security, such as regulatory and regulatory compliance, regulatory oversight by the authorities and the possibility to prosecute breaches of the rules. Furthermore, responsibility, training and competence of the actors in the transport chain are important. The master of the vessel is obliged to ensure that the ship is clear before the voyage begins, which means that it is the master who has the ultimate responsibility for, for example, the correct loading of goods in accordance with the requirements of the provisions in place. As regards the question of translating the IMDG code into Swedish, it is primarily a matter for the relevant authorities to deal with. It is important that the Swedish Transport Agency cooperates with the Swedish Civil Protection Agency (MSB), the Coast Guard and other relevant authorities to ensure that the rules are complied with in order to maintain a high level of safety at sea. The Swedish Transport Agency has not brought to the attention of the Government that there would be problems with the IMDG Code or because cooperation between the authorities would not work. The prosecutor general's decision on the matter came relatively recently, and it remains to be seen whether it will lead to changes in the work of the authorities. I will closely monitor the work of the authorities on this issue.
i-6kxVNf1fqzdtdfcRHtqcQC	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Mikael Damberg! Dangerous goods are just as it sounds a subject or something else that is dangerous. It can be explosive, self-igniting, toxic, corrosive or flammable. These substances should be handled properly whether we transport them on the road, in the air or out on the lake. When it fails to deal with the dangerous goods, it must also have consequences for those operators who do not behave properly. Thus, the situation of the Coast Guard does not allow anyone who commits crimes in connection with the taking of vehicles on board ships to be prosecuted. Deficiencies are detected; no less than 40% of the vehicles checked are flawed. The statistics, at least the one I have had access to, do not say what the deficiency was or which subject was relevant. But it does not really matter very much, because there are shortcomings in the handling of dangerous goods, it is a danger to people who are nearby or to the environment. Just take diesel oil, that is, what we drive our vehicles on – only a few deciliters is enough to ruin a water supply for a long time to come. There are many such substances that can have serious consequences for the environment. That is why it must also have consequences for those who deliberately violate the acquis. The Government said in its reply: Yes, I very much hope that the government will take this very seriously! We are doing this for others who have been active in the transport industry. The Government said another thing in the answer, namely this: Then let us hope that first the written question and then this interpellation has brought to light something that the government has to deal with. Just to illustrate how I experience how this is handled, I'll tell you about an event that happened on the way many years ago. I stopped a vehicle where it was defective; it was not a number right, if you put it mildly. There was an older driver driving the vehicle, and I pointed out that there were deficiencies in the load securing. Then he said, "Little boy, that's so heavy it's still there!" Well, that's good, I answered him. Then we'll go out and take a brake test. Then he took out both arms and shouted: Then it won't stand! A little bit, I feel that the government is dealing with the question: You do not experience the danger until you are faced with what is dangerous. Of the vehicles checked, 40% are flawed, but one does not experience that danger until something actually happens. It is time, then, when we stand there with perhaps severely injured people or a serious environmental problem. I therefore sincerely hope that, following this debate, the government will take steps to ensure that those who violate such an important piece of legislation can be prosecuted.
i-930e02eac663f054-19	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellant for an important interpellation. There is a reason why it is said that dangerous goods are not being handled properly and that they can pose a danger to the environment as well as to the safety of drivers or the general public. It is clear that these are important issues we are talking about, and the government is taking this very seriously. That is why we have had previous debates in the past on the need to increase controls. We have noted that there have been too few checks on the road for a number of years. This applies to different types of roadside inspections of heavy traffic. In recent times, however, we have seen a positive trend, and we hope that it will continue in the future. For example, in the first months of this year, compared with the same period last year, we had increased controls on driving and rest times, dangerous goods, flying inspections and cabotage. I think it is important that the authorities are now also able to analyse what the new decision really means and how to work with it. That is why I say that I have great confidence that when the authorities discover problems in a business they either correct the problem themselves, by their own actions, or come back to us in the government and say that they think we need to take a decision on some issue in order to remedy a problem. Although we have some problems in this area, I would like to state that it is not the case that the Coast Guard does not carry out any checks at all. It is still the case that ongoing supervision is carried out. They are often made in port, as the interpellier knows, and in connection with the port area. The ADR rules for the transport of dangerous goods by road will then be applied instead. Of course, it is also important, but it is not exactly the same thing that the interpeller brings up. But if you discover problems there, the Coast Guard has the opportunity to ban or stop a transport from boarding the ferry or boat. It is also an important instrument to be used if dangerous goods are not handled properly. This is therefore not an unregulated area, but if there are problems in this area, we expect authorities to act either on their own – which we have great hope of doing – or to return to the government with information on how they think we should act to solve problems that have arisen as a result of new interpretations.
i-930e02eac663f054-25	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for everything! The crux may not be primarily that the authority does not carry out checks, for they do so demonstrably because 40% of the vehicles checked have deficiencies. The problem becomes when the authority gets tied up and does not have the tools to prosecute the person who commits a serious crime. The Prosecutor General said that this legislation cannot be used because it is not available in a printed, consolidated version in Swedish. It's digital, but it can't be used in a court of law. There we are. Then the government must also ensure that we have a translated version of the legislation so that those who commit crimes can be prosecuted. Now we see that 40% of the vehicles checked are defective. There's a lot of people flying under the radar. You don't mark the vehicles with orange signs or other labels that tell you what the goods are on board. Maybe you don't load-proof properly. There are also examples that drivers do not have training to transport dangerous goods. Maybe there's no transport document. In this situation, it is even more difficult for emergency services, for example, to come up with the right equipment in the event of an accident. Many of the substances we talk about react with oxygen. If they come into contact with oxygen, there may be a severe fire or even an explosion. Some substances cannot handle water, and shipping is based on water. If you can crawl under the radar, as is evident, and there are no consequences, you create a market for those who want to round the system. It also leads to companies that try to comply with the regulations, have trained drivers, have the right type of vehicles and do everything right getting higher costs. This will put you in a position where you cannot compete, because those who do not comply with the regulations can, of course, offer cheaper transport. In the end, there are some who lose out on this, namely we ordinary citizens, who may be exposed to substances coming into circulation in watercourses or being released into the air. There was an accident on E6 outside Ängelholm on October 12. Then there was ammonia in the load. Now I'm not saying that the accident was due to something wrong. It was a traffic accident. However, it had the consequence of evacuating properties to have a safety distance to the accidentd vehicle. If dangerous goods are to be transported, it must go according to the rules in order to minimise as far as possible the risk of harm to people and the environment, and it must also cost money to those who violate the rules. We cannot have a situation where one cannot prosecute the one who is not doing well. Then the authorities will end up in a situation where they will not be able to act fully.
i-930e02eac663f054-33	Madam President, I would like I would like to reiterate that it is important for the Swedish Transport Agency to cooperate with MSB, the Coast Guard and other authorities concerned in order to ensure that the rules are complied with in the best way possible, so that a high level of safety at sea can be maintained. The question of translating the IMDG code into Swedish is primarily a matter for the relevant authorities to assess and handle. The proposal came quite recently, so I am absolutely sure that the authorities will draw conclusions from this and come back, either with their own actions or by returning to the government on how they believe the situation should be dealt with. But we are not going to spread a picture of the Coast Guard not being able to control this. If the vehicle is to come on board the ferry, it must somehow roll on board. Then we're in the port areas. The Coast Guard will also have muscle and legal support to intervene if you do not handle dangerous goods properly, and you can be punished for that. It is also possible to prevent the goods from being driven on board the boat, not only because the goods themselves have been handled in a criminal manner, but also in terms of safety on board. As a result, additional costs are incurred by the carrier or logistics company if they do not comply with the regulations. I am not saying this to tone down the second issue, but there are, therefore, rules to act on which we expect the authorities to also use to ensure safety on the road and at sea. Ultimately, it is the commander who will ensure that the goods and what is on the boat are safe. It is the absolute duty of the commander to ensure this. The authorities can and must act, but they also have a responsibility to analyse a new situation and draw conclusions from it. If they want to come back to the government in order for us to take further initiatives, we are prepared to listen to it.
i-930e02eac663f054-38	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for everything! I will have to use the same wording as the Government itself and say that I will closely monitor the work of the authorities on this issue. I can assure you that I will. Let me just illustrate how important it is for this dangerous goods thing to be handled properly. Back in Skaraborg a few years ago we had a transport that was not signposted. So it could not be seen on the vehicle that it contained dangerous goods. That shipment contained 22,500 kg of a self-igniting substance. When it self-ignites, the extent becomes such that it can almost be described as an explosion. It was enough that the substance came into contact with oxygen to have such an effect. Now think of the idea that this vehicle had been on a boat instead and that no one had known what was in the vehicle. So there are 22,500 pounds [2,500 kg] of a substance that can self - antagonize to such an extent that it can almost be likened to an explosion! I don't think anyone here would want to be on that boat when it happens. That is why it is extremely important to get to those who do not comply with the rules, in order to protect both people and the environment. As I said, I will be monitoring the future of this issue carefully.
i-930e02eac663f054-42	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise that I and the government will also follow this issue with great interest. Ordering and knowing the roads and handling of dangerous goods are priority issues for the government. That is why we have made strong efforts to tighten the regulatory framework in order to get to those companies that do not comply with the rules, so that it has more tangible effects. We are now finally beginning to get up the controls on dangerous goods and other commercial traffic in Sweden. We're investigating a new supervisory organization. We are therefore taking a broad approach to this. I would like to guarantee Thomas Morell that we will look closely at this issue and follow the work of the authorities closely. I am sure that a solution can be found to this, too. However, no dangerous goods should be carried on board ships – both authorities and masters can and must ensure that they do so.
i-930e02eac663f054-44	Madam President, I would like Louise Meijer has asked me whether I would like to introduce the possibility of a search zone and of listening to gang-criminals without any real suspicion of crime. The violence that criminal networks represent must be tackled with the full force of society. Criminal networks must be broken, crime must be suppressed and security increased. With the 34-point programme, we implement the largest package against gang crime ever in Sweden. The programme includes actions in the short and long term. We give new tools to the authorities and tighten the penalties, but we also carry out long-term efforts to strangle gang recruitment. Visiting zones are not included in the 34-point program. As Louise Meijer has said, I have explained this by saying that it is unclear whether search zones are an effective tool against shootings and other gang crime, while there are risks associated with the proposal. On the other hand, it has been noted that the Police Authority needs better access to searches in known criminal settings when there is no concrete suspicion of crime e. As part of the 34-point programme, I have commissioned an investigator to look more generally at the possibilities of police searches in these cases and to make proposals that improve the possibilities of searching for weapons and other dangerous objects, such as explosives. The investigator will report the mission at the end of this month. The possibility of using secret coercive measures is of great importance in the fight against serious crime. Step by step, therefore, this government is making important changes in order to give law enforcement authorities effective opportunities to collect data from electronic communications. The government has introduced new rules on data storage and a procedure that makes it easier to decide on secret interception of electronic communications. Last spring we made sure that a new coercive device, secret data reading, could be introduced. With secret data reading, law enforcement authorities can collect more data than before, including encrypted information. The new coercive agent can be used both during a preliminary investigation and in cases where there is no suspicion of a concrete crime. In the near future, the government will set up an investigation to give law enforcement authorities greater opportunities to use secret coercive measures in the area of serious and organised crime. The investigator should consider, among other things, whether secret coercive measures should be used for offences which are currently not regulated. However, new coercive measures or increased possibilities for the use of existing coercive measures must not be introduced lightly, and any measure must be preceded by careful consideration. Not least, new measures need to be put in place where they are most useful. The government has a continuous and close dialogue with the Police Authority and the other law enforcement authorities on this matter.
i-930e02eac663f054-54	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of the Interior, for your answer. The other day the national security survey came, and it was interesting for all of us who are working on these issues to take part in. From a relatively stable level of people and the proportion of people in society who are concerned about the development of crime in society, we have now reached and measured the highest level since the measurements began. Something that stands out, which is perhaps not surprising, and which I shall return to is something that the Minister for the Interior himself has pointed out: that among young men between the ages of 16 and 19, one in five is concerned about being robbed. One in five young guys is worried about having a personal robbery. It is perhaps not surprising that we are seeing an increased concern in this particular group because we are also seeing an increased vulnerability to personal robbery in this group. But not only boys between 16 and 19 years of age are exposed to this. It is also a question of children, in particular, who are victims of robbery by other children. We know that the number of reported offences of this type increased by 31 per cent in 2019. During Mikael Damberg's time as Minister of the Interior or in any case during the time that his government has been in power, insecurity has gone from stamping large cities with alienation areas to almost every small and medium-sized Swedish city now experiencing that crime and insecurity are part of the cityscape. Mikael Damberg is not surprised by the increased insecurity, he said in an interview. I am surprised that the Minister for Home Affairs is not surprised, for it is his government that has been responsible for development since 2014. If you are not surprised, have you really done enough? Let me quote from the interview:'I think that actual developments affect people's sense of insecurity, but the statistics also show that not only are more people exposed to crime in general, but it is the feeling of insecurity that is growing above all. ..................................................... Let me take an example. Today I went up to Stockholm with a SJ train. A young guy in designer clothes who barely knows Swedish is on the train without a ticket. The conductor collects the person's ticket. The conductor rejects the person from the train. The person gets aggressive. When I talk to the conductor after this, he tells me that this is not an unusual situation. We have a situation in Sweden where it is not at all unusual that young guys without a ticket become aggressive to such an extent that conductors no longer dare to reject them from trains. Then I wonder: Is this Sweden of the Minister for the Interior? It's not my Sweden. I also wonder about the measures described by the Minister for the Interior in his response to the interpellation. Does the Minister of the Interior feel that it is really enough to curb the development of the past few years, for which he himself is responsible?
i-930e02eac663f054-63	Madam President, I would like It is important to say that I commented on this study from the point of view that I am not surprised that people feel increased insecurity when you read every other day about shootings and that there are quite often explosions in public environments in Sweden. Of course you're worried about it. Anything else would be very strange. But it also leads to the idea that we are very determined that this will not become a new normal image in Sweden. It's not something we should get used to. It is not a Sweden that I or any party in this Parliament will allow to be an extension of the development of our country. That is why we are implementing a major programme to increase security. In my reply, I only mentioned parts of it. The most important security work is the major expansion of the police, because I think many people feel that the police have been too absent and not seen enough in places where they expect the police to be there to increase security and thus be able to prosecute crimes more quickly. Here we are carrying out the largest expansion of any government agency right now. We're expanding the police force by a third by 2024. It's a massive expansion, and we're only halfway there. The great growth so far, I'll be honest and say, has been among civilian employees. Since it takes two and a half years to train a police officer, the growth of police officers is mainly now and forward with the 3 000 police students now present at police colleges around Sweden. This government has also opened two new police colleges to train more police officers. This is a work that must be done with vigour but also with a long-term perspective. That is where I think we need to see that there is not a single proposal to reverse this kind of development. It is necessary to mobilise society as a whole against crime and, above all, against gang violence, which creates so much insecurity around Sweden. We have decided to do so, and we will do so. I wasn't going to go back in history in the first place. You can do this if you want to and think about how long-term these investments were before. But I do not start with that in an interpellation debate, but note that we are making historic investments in the police and giving it new tools. We are tightening up the legislation so that the penalties are longer. We are also working hard on prevention, because when we talk about 17-year-olds who commit serious crimes, no one can tell me that one could not have intervened sooner and harder to ensure that these young people do not fall on the wrong path. Preventive work must be an important part of our work to combat insecurity, otherwise we will not succeed in the important task of increasing security in Sweden. Some parts of Sweden have worked consistently for a long time. Take Malmö, for example, which has had major problems with gang crime. There, four years in a row, the shootings have decreased in number. This is also evident in the increased security of the population. It is clear that it is connected – when the police have the opportunity to make power collections and work together with different authorities, then you have an effect. We have to do this all over Sweden when the police are both growing and receiving new tools.
i-930e02eac663f054-71	Madam President, I would like The Minister for the Interior says that no party accepts that the situation at present should be the new normal image of Sweden. But this is the new Sweden. This is what it looks like. I live in Skåne myself and find it interesting that the Minister for the Interior brings up Malmö. Malmö is not a safe city today. It is not that you can go to Malmö and say that there are no problems there. You can't go to Malmö and say: Look how long they have worked with their preventive measures! I am happy to have the debate on prevention every day, but I know that we have different views on what is actually preventive in terms of curbing crime. It is about requirements and knowledge, not mainly about more recreation centres and field assistants. It is about language requirements, about making demands for knowledge to be delivered at school and about people coming out of school to go to work and about making sure that it always pays to work instead of going on grants. I am always happy to have a debate on preventive measures. But let's get back to blasts and shootings. We know that both the blasts and the shootings are increasing. We know that among men aged 15 to 29 there are ten times more who are shot in Sweden than in Germany. Since 1996, young men's risk of gun violence in Sweden has been fivefold. I cannot see that this government is doing what is necessary to curb this development. Of course, as Mrs Damberg nicely insinuated, more people than this government are responsible for what the situation is today. You'll have to admit that. But during the Social Democrats' time in power since 2014, developments have escalated. It has rushed to a situation that has never been seen in Sweden, I would say. We see children robbing children. We see how conductors on our SJ trains do not dare to reject people who sit with Versace belts but claim to not be able to afford to buy a ticket. This is not reasonable. The police apparently publicly express, in ekot's Saturday interview, that they want to try with search zones, which could be a pattern-breaking proposal to curb crime, and that they want to test to intercept gang criminals or gang members without any concrete crime suspicion. When they announce these proposals, both publicly and surely also to the government through the good contacts and relations that you have, why does the government not want to take these steps? Why is it not prepared to do this? That's my question to the Home Secretary.
i-930e02eac663f054-79	Madam President, I would like Just to close the discussion on Malmö – I have not claimed that Malmö has no problems. Malmö is one of the cities that have the greatest problems with segregation and injustice because we have had a completely unreasonable EBO legislation in Sweden, which this government is now tightening up and changing. We have had a system of labour immigration that has allowed people to bluff their way into Sweden but also that people have been exploited criminally. All in all, this has led to an enormous segregation. Some cities and districts in Sweden have had to bear the great responsibility for Swedish refugee policy, which we have also tightened up in recent years. Despite all these challenges, Malmö has had eight years in a row with increased school results. It means an incredible effort by a municipality with Malmö's challenges to succeed in this. And I can see that the shootings have decreased in Malmö four years in a row. We need to be able to discuss cities that have had and have major problems but are creating some kind of positive development that shows that it is possible to bring down gun violence. We must have that discussion in Stockholm now. What will Stockholm do to bring down the gun violence and the blasts? I think you can learn some of what has happened in Malmö – how intelligence has been able to call in the criminal gangs and know who stands for the violence. They have also worked very offensively with defector programs and Stop shooting to bring violence down in the gangs. It has obviously produced results. Let us continue that work and learn from those who, despite huge challenges, have succeeded in achieving results. We don't have to go into that, but of course if we had more police officers today, we would have been a safer society. We had had police officers present in the neighborhoods where we have the greatest problems. We had more police officers in sparsely populated areas, which we will discuss later, so that the police had not had such long calls. But you can't cut down on police training by 90% and think there's no consequences. We must be long-term in our efforts to build greater security, including on the police side. We have a very good dialogue with the Police Authority, the Prosecution Authority and the other law enforcement agencies. The whole 34-point programme was developed according to the authorities' priorities when it comes to what you think is most important to work with to increase security, but we also listened to the political parties linked to the recordings that were made. As far as secret coercive measures are concerned, we have done several things. I believe that in order to get to gang criminals, it is absolutely crucial that you have better opportunities to work with secret interception methods in different ways. This government has done more than previous governments, and we are coming very soon with another package, where we will look at several different parts of this in order to expand the possibility of bringing gang criminals to justice for their crimes. But you always have to do this with great care. It is important not to do so in the wrong way so as to undermine legal certainty. As far as search zones are concerned, I know that the Moderates have a fondness for that proposal and think it is very important. I just wonder: in what situations can a police officer not search for weapons and drugs today? I have visited virtually all the vulnerable areas of Sweden, and I have never actually met any police in those areas who say that there are problems to search for weapons and drugs. So I wonder what problems we're solving. When we talk to the police authorities, they see the biggest problems with the search warrant. There the regulatory framework is not quite clear. I look forward to receiving the investigation's proposals later this month in order to be able to really listen to the authority, have a constructive dialogue and make sure to correct the problems that exist. However, my picture is that the police can look for both weapons and drugs if they need to, and then they have the right to search – no matter where in Sweden it happens and no matter who – to ensure that weapons or drugs are not used in our country.
i-930e02eac663f054-89	Madam President, I would like The government may do more than previous governments did then, but the Social Democratic-led government does no more than a moderate-led government had done now. In any case, I believe and hope that the voters will see that. Speaking of tightening up, both rules that make it easier to prevent gang criminals and immigration, as the Minister for the Interior mentioned, we know that the proposal that has been compromised with the Green Party Government will lead to an increase in immigration in relation to what we are seeing at the moment. Speaking of compromises, the 34-point programme that has been launched has also been compromised with small parties who do not really share the view on which are the most prioritised problems in Swedish society right now. There are completely different perceptions of what the major social problems are, and the insecurity of these parties is not the most prioritised issue. In the Stockholm area there are more gang criminals than in our entire neighbour Denmark. I think that speaks for itself. Something is wrong here in Sweden. There is something wrong with more shooting at each other here than in Germany and we have more gang criminals in a particular region than we have overall in our neighbouring countries. Why, then, are we not trying what is being done in our neighbouring countries? Why is one consistently opposed to search zones, as the police themselves ask? Why is it consistent that gang members should be intercepted without suspicion, as the police also ask? If no one knows why this proposal is effective, why does the Deputy Chief of Police ask for this publicly in the Ecots Saturday interview? I wonder.
i-930e02eac663f054-94	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to see that we agree on a great deal in this interpellation debate. We should not get used to shootings and blasts or to the insecurity that has been stuck in Sweden. We can probably also agree that the reason why we have problems today needs to be looked for further back in time. I think both your party and my party are responsible for the fact that it has become this way. However, it cannot be said that a policy of cutting down on 90% of training places in police training does not have an effect on the police's ability to fight crime. In addition, when we are working on a new migration policy in Sweden, where we move from a system of permanent residence permits to temporary residence permits, introduce supply requirements in the system and tighten up to a completely different system than we had previously in Swedish politics, one can only regret that the Moderates are unable to take responsibility – whether in the issue of migration, in the question of gang crime or in the case of Swedish defence. The Moderates stand side by side. It is your choice, but that is not how we are used to the great opposition party in Sweden acting in the event of major events affecting our country. Then we usually get along. I had hoped and thought that the Moderates would be able to cope more with opposition, so that they had actually been more long-term in their politics. This is something that is quite clear: if we are to combat gang crime, we need major efforts here and now. We need new tools for the police. A long-term commitment is needed, not only from the Police Authority but also from other authorities. Preventive work is needed, and it must be long-term, not short-term. The strength of that work would be even greater if there were a broad political line-up behind this. Unfortunately, we have a moderate party that cannot cope with it in opposition. All you have to do is regret it.
i-930e02eac663f054-97	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to strengthen the presence of the police in the smaller municipalities and not least in the rural areas. Sweden should be a safe country to live in. It requires a strong judicial system and an accessible police officer. Strengthening police work and enabling more police officers to fight crime and increase security throughout the country are priorities for the government. The police authority has a difficult task that often requires tough priorities between different tasks and geographical areas. It is the Police Authority that decides how resources are to be allocated internally within the organisation and what measures need to be taken to achieve the objectives it has. Increasing the number of police workers is a prerequisite for better accessibility throughout the country. From the government's side, we will continue our hard work to improve the conditions for the police to carry out their mission. Here the expansion of the Police Authority is a central part. By the end of June, we were halfway to the target, and nearly 3,000 more police students are on their way out in the coming years. It is also gratifying that fewer police officers end up in the agency. Police training is now conducted at two more locations, and admission to the training has more than doubled since the government took office. Police training is under pressure, but it will be a further time before we see the huge increase in police in society. The effects are hopefully becoming more visible in 2021, but it is in 2022 – 2023 that we will see the greatest impact. From the government's side we have an expectation: N is the Police Authority is growing also the presence of police officers in the community must increase. This applies, of course, throughout the country, not just in the big cities.
i-930e02eac663f054-104	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It was with interest that I followed the previous interpellation debate. It revolved a lot around large cities such as Stockholm and Malmö. Of course, what happens there takes a lot of resources from the police. It can't be ignored. At the same time, however, you must not leave the rest of the country – many people feel that they are doing so today. It takes a long time for the police to get there, if it comes at all. Upstairs in Klimpfjäll had a dealer burglary. The dealer had to wait ten hours for the police to come. Ten hours– it does not create direct security for the operator of a business far from a larger location. If one is to wait so long before the police arrive, one might ask: What would have happened if it had been a much more serious crime, perhaps even with shootings or something else? Security should not only be granted to urban residents or to those living in urban areas, but the security of those living elsewhere must also be guaranteed. What are the consequences if people start to feel insecure in their homes? They can be located in northern Värmland or in Dalarna or wherever it may be. You get out of there if you don't have the guts to stay. I was sitting last night talking to a bus driver. We sat for well over two hours discussing the situation experienced by rural bus drivers. We heard in the previous debate that train hosts on SJ's trains are faced with travellers who do not want to pay and do the right thing, and they are threatened. The bus drivers have exactly the same situation, even though they drive in the countryside, where a moose may run across the road and it is otherwise quite empty. They testify to people getting on the bus. I can give you what the bus driver told me yesterday. If he asks the question to someone who goes on and refuses to pay, he immediately gets an answer back: Do you want a beating, or? He said, "I'm so old now that I'm not asking for a beating. Then he'd rather get on the bus and ride along. He's afraid to take that conflict with someone who doesn't want to pay. What he also told us was that he sees completely open drug management on the buses out in the countryside. We have a situation in society where criminals are taking up more and more space. It doesn't matter if we talk about big cities – Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö – or, as here, about a small village called Hemavan. It is located far up in Norrland, and there you have the same worries. That's the scary part. The criminals create a network all over our surface and do not face the resistance of society. Society must be stronger than the criminals, because we end up in a situation where society is weaker than the criminals we have surrendered. It is devastating for the rule of law if we cannot maintain law and order and security for our citizens. Whether you live in Stockholm, Malmö, Gothenburg or Hemavan, you must have the same right to security.
i-930e02eac663f054-110	Madam President, I would like On the last, we are in complete agreement. Sweden should be a safe country, and you should have the right to feel that regardless of whether you live in a big city, in a small town or in the countryside of Sweden. Fortunately, the countryside is more spared from serious organised crime than the larger cities. That's good. It is also reflected in the security surveys that people in rural areas are safer than people in urban areas, but we see increased insecurity throughout the country. My conclusion is that we must have a stronger state presence throughout Sweden in the form of police that can intervene. We have had a period of too weak police organization, quite simply, which has made it very long before the police have been able to pull out, before they have been able to make reports on the spot and so on. I think that has also led to a reduction in the propensity to notify. When the police aren't in place, it's not safe to report a crime. It's a very dangerous development. I'll tell you a little bit of a happy story anyway. I came with the night train last night from Kiruna. Yesterday I was up in Kiruna. That's where I got to take a shovel for a new police station. It's a pretty big event there. There we can speak in sparsely populated areas – northern Lapland. These are huge areas, but very few police officers. A new police station is being built there, especially as mining operations will continue and the centre will be relocated. The new police house that is being built will have modern premises, but it will also be larger than today. You expect up to 200 people to be able to work in the new police station. That's 15% more than before. Thus, an increase of up to 30 people is expected. It's a reflection of the police's own growth plan. Now you're going to grow all over the country. This also means that a new police station in Kiruna must take the height of more employees in order to manage a growing police organisation. That's the way that's the long-term real. What can we do in the short term? A very important change that actually came into force just a few months ago is the change in public transport in terms of camera surveillance. Nowadays, it is not necessary to set up cameras in buses, trains, subways and stations to provide more security to the driver but also to prosecute crimes. For example, if there has been drug sales or other, the police can use the films to get to crime. In the specific case of the bus driver, I think cameras increase security. They also make it possible to prove afterwards what happened on the bus. It is a step that can make a big difference here and now when it comes to increasing the safety of the driver and the passengers. It is a change we have made over the past year that I believe will eventually have quite a great impact on the safety of buses, trains and station areas.
i-930e02eac663f054-117	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Now I don't know if you should call Borlänge sparsely populated, but at least it's not a huge city. There you have a big trouble with an area called Tjärna Ängar. There, 50 children tried to get ice cream in the ice cream truck, so the tours were cancelled there. Taxis don't drive in there. It has become an area that people back down to be in. Borlänge is not alone in this situation; it is many other places in Sweden that have similar problems, where crime and criminal activity take such a large place that ordinary people do not want to be there. I saw a TV feature the other day. After the explosion in Gothenburg, when a little girl was also injured by shrapnel, people do not want to stay in the area. We create a situation that makes people desperately trying to find other places to live. But even in the countryside, where it normally only runs around moose and reindeer, you can't feel safe. Even there crime is reminded. I have said in previous debates with the Government that I think the efforts on the police are good, but I think that is too little, given that crime is increasingly being expressed in society. Nor must we forget that Sweden is the only country where children have died in this type of crime, during peacetime. The first was a four-year-old girl in a car that was blown up at Torslanda in Gothenburg. The other was a boy who was sleeping inside an apartment where a hand grenade was thrown in. Last summer, it was a 12-year-old girl. What is happening is extremely alarming, and the efforts made are not enough. You have to do a lot more. Above all, you may have to think in new ways to break the trend, because if you do not overcome this, it will be completely impossible to manage your business. What was the basis for my interpellation was the woman who has had an affair in Värmland for 31 years. She's had 43 burglaries. Not one of these burglaries has been solved — not one! If at least there had been one that had been cleared up, but it is not, but it is 100% that it says Seven of these burglaries were also this year. She has had to buy psychological help for the employees, because they do not feel safe at work. This is a brave woman who has struggled for many years and who tries to carry on her business in this village in Värmland. What happens the day she and many people with her can't take it anymore? How, then, are we going to cope with life in the countryside? We used to rumble a bit when we went out of the police station in Skövde and went up to Töreboda and Hova. We said the weapons will have to be insecure when we pass Tidan. It was a way of ralliing, but unfortunately it is also a development we see in society: the criminals are out there, they are armed and they do not hesitate to use these weapons. You run around with automatic weapons in the city and shoot. Anyone who has held an automatic weapon in hand knows what the consequence is once you press the trigger: The risk of innocent people dying is imminent. Now we have to deal with this problem – now, right now.
i-930e02eac663f054-127	Madam President, I would like Now Thomas Morell has had two speeches. I share his problem description, but he hasn't made a single suggestion as to what to do. I heard, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, Otherwise, I haven't heard a suggestion as to what to do. Doing more is perhaps not enough as an action programme. I take these questions very seriously. I've been to Tjärna Ängar. I have visited the area and looked at how to work between the police and the municipality. It is clear that the police presence has been too weak for a long time. It is obvious that you want more cameras to increase security, but you also want to work more long-term. My biggest problem with the economic policy of the Swedish Democrats is this: you are consistently withdrawing all the money that leads to greater integration into society. Money should be removed from the new authority to combat segregation, money that would primarily go to the municipalities that have the greatest problems with such areas. It is about money for school and social services, aimed at these areas, so that children are better placed to succeed and not end up in negative spirals and criminality. This is what is at the back of the Swedish democrats' economic policy, namely that the money should always be taken from the preventive work that can lead to no worse problems in the future. When we talk about rural insecurity, we must be careful with descriptions of people with automatic weapons running around everywhere. We have a problem with gang crime. They shoot and blow up a lot at each other, and there is a risk that the public will be affected. But this does not apply primarily in the rural areas of Sweden. We still need to be clear about that. The main gang conflicts are rooted in and linked to the particularly vulnerable areas around Sweden – that's why these areas are particularly vulnerable, and that's why the police have pointed them out. In rural areas, however, we have problems with other types of crime, and crime against shops is one such example. The government has not only promised to expand with more police, but we have also promised to facilitate camera surveillance, as we have done. We have ensured that we have organized work against international theft leagues. We now have a legislative referral out with proposals that mean that you have the possibility of a ban on access to stores, that you can go after those who are involved in systematic thefts – read: theft leagues – and that there will be tougher penalties. Step by step, then, we are pushing the whole system forward to increase security, and we have decided to do so in the long term and forcefully. It is not an easy task. These are problems that have grown up for quite a long time, and it takes the strength of society as a whole to combat crime and increase security. When we see that the police have removed certain areas from the list of particularly vulnerable areas in municipalities that have had the greatest problems with security issues, it has almost always been preceded by the fact that the police have been more present, that property owners have made investments, that the municipality has been in place and that civil society has made further efforts. That is, the whole ordinary society is mobilized and is present in these areas. That is what increases security, but it also creates confidence in the future in these areas. That is why I believe that both must be done.
i-930e02eac663f054-136	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Damberg. We have plenty of suggestions. I would very much like to hand over our 60-page exercise on road traffic, for there is an extremely important part of reducing the supply of food to criminals. The crux of those living in rural areas is that when all the resources are put into the large areas, where we have violent crimes in the form of shootings and blasts, the police presence in the smaller towns disappears. When they made the power collection down in Malmö, many of the police in Skaraborg were sent down to Malmö to implement these measures there. Then you did not have the resources needed at home, so it becomes a domino effect. The first thing you have to do is strangle the food supply to the criminal networks, because if they are still nourished, they will be more difficult to fight. One of the most important ways to break the criminal networks is to be on them out on the road. The road is their lifeblood; that is where they create the financial resources, and it is therefore primarily where the authorities should have their presence in order to stop developments on the criminal side. If you can stop the food supply to the criminal activity, it will be easier to fight. You're supposed to smoke them out, that's all. I should like to conclude this interpellation debate in the same way as the previous one: I will be closely monitoring developments in this matter.
i-930e02eac663f054-141	Madam President, I would like This is an important interpellation about the presence of police officers across the country, and I can promise the interpellant that I will continue to work for what many did not think was possible: to expand the police organization with 10,000 more employees by 2024. We're halfway there, actually a little ahead of the plane. Until now, there have been a lot of civilian workers, but now the police are also increasing. Every six months more police officers are employed around Sweden. In order to nuance the picture a bit of Polisregion Nord, which is perhaps the region that has been affected least by the escalating gang conflicts in Sweden, it is only in the last year 100 more employees in Polisregion Nord. So it's visible all over the country now that we're starting to switch up the police. My answer to this is therefore more police officers and more cameras where insecurity is greatest. It is harsher punishment so that the gang criminals are in prison longer, but there are also more tools to the police so that they can access the gang criminals, who can then get a conviction. But it is also a very important preventive work. If we look at where gang crime plagues society most, it is in our poorest residential areas around Sweden. And if you are serious about reducing recruitment, you must be able to work preventively as well. It is about targeted efforts at school and social services and actually working to ensure that young people do not end up in crime. Not least, it is about integration work that you have to cope with resource allocation. Unfortunately, the Swedish Democrats have a lot more to do there, because they create bigger problems by removing money for integration. It does not increase the security of society.
i-930e02eac663f054-145	Madam President, I would like Mattias Bäckström Johansson has asked me what I and the government intend to do to address the need for maintenance on Stångådalsbanan, Tjustbanan and other regional railways in both the short and long term. The government has high ambitions for the Swedish railways. After years of underinvestment in Swedish infrastructure, the Government decided in 2018 on a national plan for the nfrastructure. This means an investment of over SEK 700 billion for investments throughout the country. Among other things, it is the largest railway investment in modern times with extensive new investments but also a record increase in railway maintenance. The decision states that the allocation for railway maintenance increased by 47 per cent compared with the previous plan. An important part of the development of a national plan was the priorities of the regions of the most urgent areas. The government has continued to invest in the railways. In accordance with the Government's proposal in the budget proposal for 2020, railway maintenance investments of SEK 100 million per year are implemented during the period 2020 – 2022. Following the Government's proposal in an extraordinary amending budget in May 2020, additional funds will be added to the maintenance of railways amounting to SEK 720 million. The Government has also proposed in the budget proposal for 2021 extensions of railway maintenance by SEK 500 million per year during the period 2021 – 2023. Work has now begun to develop a new national plan, and in the course of the process there will be several opportunities to highlight the priority infrastructure efforts of the regions. I'm really looking forward to that work.
i-930e02eac663f054-148	Mr. Old President! I thank the Government for the answer to my interpellation. It is of course a good thing that there is a positive approach when it comes to investments in Swedish rail and infrastructure. But it is still a little hard to recognize in the offensive description that the Government is trying to give in its response, especially if you come from the south-eastern parts of Sweden. As an introduction to this interpellation debate, I would like to take the Government on a journey and describe what it might look like on the regional railways, and specifically the railways referred to in the interpellation. At Stångådalsbanan, which runs between Kalmar and Linköping, approximately every eighth trip has been cancelled during the last ten years. It is a level that is substantially above what it looks like for the rest of the country. If you compare this with the other track, Tjustbanan, which runs between Västervik and Linköping, it is quite good comparison figures. On Tjustbanan, on average, every fourth trip has been cancelled during the last ten years. Individual years have almost half of all departures been cancelled. Once you've agreed to a departure, you'll have to go on one of the two courses without electrification. Instead, trains run on fossil diesel, which is not directly in line with the ambitions that exist and which the government claims to want in order to achieve fossil freedom. If you have come on a train trip, the journey time between Kalmar and Linköping on Stångådalsbanan is a little over three hours. It gives an average speed of about 70 kilometers per hour. It is certainly faster than you might be able to ride a bike with endurance, or even get up in. At the same time, however, it is in line to drive a tuned moped. This can be compared with the average speed of the main track, which is more than double if you travel between, for example, Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, and which significantly exceeds the average speed of cars. The problems on these tracks are also expected to increase with more solar curves, rail problems, track position defects and further reduced speed. Even storms also mean that the tracks are closed, because they are not tree-proof. It should reasonably be assumed here that the necessary measures and investments in maintenance are planned and fully implemented. Instead, however, the current plan for the maintenance and rehabilitation needs of the runways is completely lacking. This seems strange, at least to me, if we now want more people to travel collectively. Mr. Old President! I therefore wonder what the Government and the Government intend to do to ensure that infrastructure investment benefits all parts of the country.
i-930e02eac663f054-155	Mr. Old President! I thank Mattias Bäckström Johansson for this. I am also a minor and I am well aware of the current routes and think, as is obvious, that we need to invest even more in the railways in the future. There's no doubt about it. We are making the greatest investment in modern times in the national plan that is now in place. We also make extensive efforts every year to increase rail maintenance, because we had a situation with years of underinvestment. When priority parties like the Swedish Democrats choose to cooperate with tax cuts before investments. The most important thing was then to carry out job tax deductions 1, 2, 3 and 4 instead of investing in Swedish rail. We even had a finance minister who made a point of not investing in the railways. I note that when the Swedish Democrats are now given the opportunity to formulate their own transport policy, they highlight the following important priorities to make in Swedish infrastructure: E16, national road 40, national road 25, E10 and national road 56. But it is not much railway that the Swedish Democrats themselves choose to highlight as important initiatives. In view of the forthcoming national plan, I would like us to have a proper discussion in all regions about what are the main priorities. The starting point for the government is that we need to invest more in what is transition and climate-smart transport. This includes investments in main tracks and on Norrbotniabanan but also on other parts of the Swedish rail system. It is necessary to enlarge labour market regions and ensure that this can be done with climate-smart travel. The basic question back to Mattias Bäckström Johansson is: Will the Swedish Democrats prioritise the railways? Will rail investments be an important part of the initiatives that you prioritise for future work on infrastructure proposals and eventually a national plan? Will you highlight the importance of rail and climate-smart travel? It is not the case that the Swedish Democrats have a good register of efforts in relation to climate policy. But now there is a chance to highlight what is necessary for us to reduce emissions even more and have even more forward-looking infrastructure investments in climate-smart travel. And it is perhaps appropriate to invest in even larger parts of the Swedish rail system. The government's starting point – it is important – is that we listen both to the previous national plan and to the work that is now under way to the priorities of all regions. I note that in Kalmar and Östergötland there were a few different priorities of what were the most important efforts to strengthen the railways. But again this time I will listen carefully, meet business representatives, civil society, regional politicians and local politicians, because I see the need to invest in order for us to cope with climate change. That starting point is more important than tax cuts, and it is this social debate that we will have in the coming year. If we are able to have the courage to invest to cope with climate change and broaden the labour market regions, then I think we will also have the opportunity to renovate not least large parts of the smaller railway network in Sweden.
i-930e02eac663f054-160	Mr. Old President! What the Government says is nothing more than political rhetoric. There is no contradiction between job tax deductions and investment in infrastructure. I also note that the government has not removed the job tax deductions that have been introduced either. Instead, the government has gone even further and reduced the tax on those with the highest incomes by removing the military tax, which the Swedish democrats opposed. The funds could have benefited the country more through investments in infrastructure, among other things. What I want to highlight in this debate is the link with fossil freedom. There are trains still on diesel. In this context, the government chooses to be more focused on high-speed trains that will cost hundreds of billions and that do not directly benefit the countryside or the regional railways in any way. There is a damp maintenance need if you're even going to be able to drive on these tracks. This could be a possible stimulus with the initiatives that exist from the region with a quick start for south-eastern Sweden. The state has an overall responsibility for rail transport and infrastructure to function throughout the country. However, given the priorities that the state has made in the past for that part of the country, it is hard to believe that it is important, or that it is content to stick to the confession of the lips. Although both households and industry rank the infrastructure in Kalmar County at its worst, it has not led to any specific or distinctive investments. Although the routes consistently compete to be among the worst in the country when it comes to accessibility and cancellations, it has not led to specific or distinctive efforts in any way either. In the latest plan, Kalmar County is by far the lowest proportion of investments per inhabitant. A relatively large proportion goes to maintenance and maintenance of the Öland bridge, which is not directly offensively spent money at all. In the maintenance plan referred to by the Government in its reply, there is also no money for track, rail changes, signalling measures or electrification of the said tracks. Somewhere here the question remains: In what way, Mr. Age President, will the Government and the Government work to ensure that there is a more proportionate distribution of infrastructure money so that there is a connection to being able to live, operate and live in the whole of Sweden?
i-930e02eac663f054-165	Mr. Old President! It is undeniably the case, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, that the national plan that exists includes infrastructure investments throughout the country. Here it is record investments not only on rail but also on railway maintenance and road maintenance throughout the country, from roads in Västerbottens inland, E10 in Kiruna, the harbour in Luleå and Gothenburg harbour to E22 in Jämjö or the Southeast link in Blekinge. There are investments throughout the country, and they are a prerequisite for the country to function. After years of underinvestment where the focus sometimes only ended up on big cities' investments, we received SEK 100 billion more in 2018, when a Social Democratically led government prioritised the infrastructure and investments throughout the country. I may be misinformed, but I still want to ask Mattias Bäckström Johansson a few questions once again. In the proposal that the Swedish Democrats have presented to Parliament, which lists individual objects, I cannot see any railway object, such as Stångådalsbanan or for that matter Tjustbanan. Should I interpret it as meaning that the Swedish Democrats, when they define the issue themselves, choose not to include them, or are they with them elsewhere? Surely the starting point must be that we need to invest more in a neglected railway system? I think it is absolutely necessary after previous underinvestments. When we make the biggest bet ever, record increases maintenance effort by 47 percent, we also notice that it leads to results in improved punctuality. Relatively recently, a report showed the best punctuality ever. We shall rejoice in that. But once traffic increases, if the pandemic recedes, we should be aware that we are reaching the capacity ceiling. It's tight on the tracks! We need to build more railroad. I note that the Swedish Democrats do not give more priority to rail. On the contrary, you have been strongly opposed to efforts to improve the capacity of the Swedish rail system. I would, of course, welcome it if the Swedish Democrats could now also see the importance of investing in the Swedish railways. But so far I have not seen that priority. Please, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, now tell us how to invest in the railway.
i-930e02eac663f054-170	Mr. Old President! In Kalmar County, the lowest level per citizen in the country is by far lower than the proportion that should reasonably exist. It is something that has been consistent over a longer period of time. Therefore, it will be difficult to maintain an understanding of how to work with these issues. It feels like there's a lot to do for a government in the future, regardless of color, to maintain a good infrastructure in all parts of the country. I can reply to the Government that we do not engage in planned economy in the way that we point out exactly what is to be done. There seems to be an input from the government that the opposition should point to the projects to be implemented. This should be governed by principles somewhere. I can understand that there is a desire for a budget debate, but I welcome the Government to be present when that area of expenditure will be debated in Parliament, which is not the subject of this particular debate. Finally, I would like to point out that regional railways are important and must not be forgotten. The relative distances within the country are in danger of increasing, which brings people further away and makes it increasingly difficult to keep the country together, especially if you want to live up to the determination that the whole country should live. For those living in rural areas, it is difficult to understand the one-sided focus of the government on high-speed trains. It is not that rural areas are directly impressed by priorities to spend hundreds of billions of dollars for trains that should go slightly faster at the expense of other infrastructure and by trains that in many cases do not go at all, at low speed or on fossil diesel oil. My hope is that it will take the opportunity to invest in the infrastructure that is important for the country and various labour market regions, so that Sweden can emerge stronger from this. It would be good for the countryside and is important for living, working and living in all parts of the country.
i-930e02eac663f054-176	Mr. Old President! I am taking part in the budget debates held by the Committee on Transport and Tourism. I see that the chairman of the Transport Committee is here in the Chamber, and he can confirm that. I think it is important, and I am happy to take this debate. I suppose it may be a certain concern for Mattias Bäckström Johansson or for the Swedish Democrats to speak warmly on the one hand for investments on Stångådalsbanan and Tjustbanan and on the other hand that the initiative is not included when you want to specify the budget yourself. Then it's just road investments, not rail investments. Politics is also about being able to carry out what they say, i.e. actually proposing measures, presenting them and ensuring that it is credible that they can be financed. The Swedish Democrats obviously have a lesson to do here. I will listen to all regions for the new national plan. It is important because that is how Sweden works. We have a great responsibility in the regions for infrastructure priorities. They are so clearly linked to the development of housing, the enlargement of labour market regions and the conditions for meeting climate requirements. Of course, I will have this dialogue with Kalmar County, Östergötland County and other parts of the country to listen to comments and priorities. My priority and the government's priority are clear: we shall meet the climate requirements. We're gonna stick this country together. We will ensure that labour market regions are enlarged so that more people can commute to work or to friends in a climate-smart way. It will mean more resources, and that is more important than tax cuts.
i-930e02eac663f054-181	Mr. Old President! Jens Holm has asked me what conclusions I draw from Swedavia AB's Bromma analysis and whether I intend to act against the high fares at Arlanda Express. The spread of the new Corona virus and the covid-19 disease has affected air travel dramatically, and air traffic has fallen sharply. We are in a situation where the prospects are uncertain, and both reduced flight and covid-19 affect the aviation market in both the short and long term. Under current market conditions, Swedavia has carried out an impact assessment of the continued operation of Bromma from the company's mission and business perspective. The company has presented its conclusions, and I can conclude that Swedavia's assessment is that under current market conditions it is not commercially justified to pursue Bromma further. The impact of Swedavia's assessment must now be analysed. That more people take public transport, such as trains, to and from Arlanda is desirable. Ticket prices are affected by the station charge, which is the special charge to be paid by railway undertakings to A-A-Train AB for each passenger or commuter who gets off or on the railway undertaking's train at Arlanda Central. The right to set station fees will be added to A-A-Train as a right holder to use the Arlanda Line. The government is not in a position to influence the fees.
i-930e02eac663f054-185	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank the Minister for the answer to my interpellation. During the current pandemic, flying in Sweden has gone down by over 80 percent, and one of the worst affected airports is Bromma Airport here in Stockholm. From an airport perspective, this is of course not positive. We should remember, however, that every crisis also has an opportunity within it. Here we see that flying has gone down very much, and this gives an opportunity to concentrate flying to an airport here in Stockholm instead of having two. Perhaps some routes can also be completely closed down and replaced by train journeys. I see that the airlines, not least the BRA airline, do not seem prepared to open all the routes they used to have. I think it's great, Mr. Age President, that Tomas Eneroth and the government gave Swedavia the task of carrying out an impact assessment of Bromma airport's future. The impact assessment is now complete, and Swedavia rightly notes that it is not sustainable to operate Bromma airport further. In their impact assessment, they say, among other things, that it is not commercially justified to pursue Bromma further and that the consequences of a political decision on early closure are manageable and together bring benefits to Swedavia. Swedavia therefore wants a mission from the government to phase out Bromma airport as soon as possible. That was also the conclusion when Swedavia's management courted the Transport Committee a few weeks ago. They were clear that there are great opportunities – not only can Stockholm City develop Bromma Airport into a vibrant neighbourhood with perhaps 30,000 new homes and thousands of new workplaces, but there are also clear environmental benefits such as reduced noise and reduced local emissions. There are also climate benefits due to reduced greenhouse gas emissions, which Swedavia was careful to tell us. They were also clear to say that they do not believe that Bromma will return to unprecedented levels of over 2 million passengers per year, but they believe that about half as many will travel to and from Bromma if the airport is still there. They also note that there is every possibility to transfer these passengers to Arlanda Airport and that in the short term no new major investments are needed in Arlanda Airport to accommodate the new passengers.
i-930e02eac663f054-192	Public transport is something raised in this report. In the case of other comparable airports, such as Gardermoen in Oslo or Kastrup in Copenhagen, the majority of them travel collectively to and from the airport. This is not the case in Arlanda. There we have a problem with a private monopoly – Arlanda Express – which has among the world's highest fares. This can be influenced by the government by the withdrawal of the course to government direction. Is the minister going to work for it?
i-930e02eac663f054-193	Mr. Old President! Let me first take the last one on the Arlanda runway. This project was decided on 8 June 1994. It was then another majority. It was a bourgeois-led government that, simplistically, privatised this part and made an effort on a railway system that, in a long-term agreement, did not provide opportunities for politics to influence the conditions. I note that the Left Party then supported the Social Democrats' reservation on this issue. Now we have to relate to the operation and the agreement that exists. It should nevertheless be added that, despite the discussion about prices, Arlandabanan actually manages the mission in a well-functioning way. The trains are on time. But of course there is every reason in the world to improve the conditions for even more climate-smart trips out to Arlanda. It is a discussion that I think will become even more topical now that we are approaching a revision of the national plan. I note that the Stockholm region raises questions about finding even more climate-smart travel in the future, not least to Arlanda. As far as Mrs Swedavia's report is concerned, it was probably, indeed, wise for the government to give this mission. Swedavia reported the report less than a month ago. I very much appreciate that the Committee on Transport and Tourism took space and time to get a proper look at the conditions, and of course we have also done so in the government. However, it is less than a month ago, and the conditions must of course be analysed. I can have all the respect that Jens Holm is eager in this situation, but we have gone from a situation where a few years ago we had a real increase in flights, not only in Sweden but throughout the world, to a situation where a few months ago we could see that all regular flights between countries have basically ceased. It is a proper reshaping of the conditions for aviation. Then we should also analyse the long-term preconditions for aviation infrastructure, and that is what we in the government are now doing properly. But there is one thing no one should doubt: The flight is needed in Sweden, but the flight needs to change. Air travel needs to change – not only because we are making political demands on it, but also because society is actually demanding that all modes of transport should change. We're going to be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We are going to be a country that shows that it is not only possible to change road transport, rail and shipping, but also that the aviation of biofuels, and for that matter electrification, is capable of changing. That's what Swedish flights want. Here is an opportunity – or a window, if we are going to use that expression – to also ensure that the re-start that might come in the coming years will be a green re-start, so that there will be no doubt that when the aircraft restarts, it will also re-start. It is therefore important that we now carefully analyse the preconditions, both the infrastructure conditions in terms of airport capacity and the conditions for flight to cope with the change. We must respect the fact that there are aviation operators who are now economically weak. This is one of the reasons why the Riksdag has supported the Government's proposal to provide credit guarantees or other types of financial support to aviation operators. But the resources will in future also be able to be used for the flight to change so that we can manage climate-smart travel both to and from Arlanda– there are Jens Holm and I completely agree.
i-930e02eac663f054-200	Mr. Old President! Let us first complete the private monopoly of Arlanda Express, which today is owned by Australian pension funds and by the Chinese state. As the Minister said, it was a former bourgeois government that pushed this forward. But it is also the case that according to the agreement that exists between Arlanda Express and the state-owned Arlandabanan Infrastructure AB, as the company is called, the state can withdraw the operation of the track. Of course, you can buy out the company, but you can do it. I was even more surprised when the government had the agreement with Arlanda Express extended last summer, so that you can have this private monopoly not only until 2040, as previously stated in the agreement, but it is now extended until 2050. Tomas Eneroth, it does not make it easier for collective travel to and from Arlanda to extend the private monopoly by ten years. Why did you do that? I would like to ask again whether there is a timetable in the government for the closure of Bromma airport. I understand that this is a complex issue. There are lots of different dimensions. Swedavia is also clear that they have analysed their market conditions. There are many more parameters that obviously need to be included in this. But we also see that there is a great deal of interest locally in the City of Stockholm in making something better out of this area than having a half full airport. I read a very interesting motion which the Social Democratic Party raised last year. It is precisely about decommissioning Bromma airport and instead building homes and Bromma park town there. The government can't just say that you analyze and analyze, but you have to tell what kind of strategy you have for Bromma airport. What's the next step? Are these new reports, or how do you plan on moving on? We should also remember that Swedavia believes, as I interpreted it anyway when we listened to them, that it is now this window that the Minister himself is talking about. It's now that the flying's gone down. It is now that the best opportunities are available to move over lines and concentrate them to Arlanda and replace some routes with trains. If you wait 5, 10, 15 years, it is likely to be much more difficult to do this. Is nothing going to change after the Corona? Yeah, I hope so. I hope a lot of things will change after the coronapndemine. The report we have received is a summary of three pages that Swedavia has posted on its website and which we in the Transport Committee received and also the Industry Committee. It is an interesting summary that contains a lot. But there is a much bigger report behind it. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to publish the full report on the possible early closure of Bromma airport. I think it would be good for all parties if we got all the documents on the table, so to speak.
i-930e02eac663f054-208	Mr. Old President! The latter is probably a question to be addressed primarily to responsible Minister Ibrahim Baylan of the Ministry of Enterprise. As far as Bromma airport is concerned, I note, like Jens Holm, that in recent years there has been not only a wider involvement behind a concentration in Arlanda but also a different approach to Bromma and Bromma's development. I even believe that the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce last had any idea of this. In the Transport Committee, where Jens Holm is chairman, there is an announcement that the government should work towards further development of Bromma airport. The Government therefore has positions in the Riksdag to take into account when choosing to act, whether it concerns Bromma, Arlanda or other parts of Swedish infrastructure. It may be that a pandemic and the development it entails for aviation change the conditions. And I think that one fact is that everyone realises that these are completely different conditions for aviation now than before. That is one of the reasons why I am very careful with the mission that we now have to analyse Swedavia's report, of course, but also to look more closely at the consequences. It is of course the case that Swedavia has talked about the market conditions from its perspective and the company's perspective. Let us also properly analyse other prerequisites for Bromma's future. Finally, no one should doubt the case. And I would like to emphasise to those who may be following this debate digitally that we agree, Jens Holm and I, on the question of changing flights. I think that is an important signal, because we noticed before the pandemic, before we saw the dramatic reduction in air traffic, that air travel actually decreased. Flygskam became a debate that was exported from Sweden into the world. And I think it's important that we remind ourselves of what happened. Well, it came from a discussion where it was not thought that aviation took climate issues seriously. Individuals themselves said: I want to change my travel. I would rather travel both more expensively and a little more complicated by train to European destinat ioner than by fast low-cost flights. Therefore, the starting point must be to take advantage of this commitment now that we have the opportunity to restart the transport sector and to ensure that not only in Sweden but throughout Europe, in that sense, we get a green new deal and a green start. It is about biofuels, introductions for aviation, and it is also about electrification. It is clear that electric flights will not replace flights to very many destinations in the near future, but the tank tickles. Since we have the objective not only to reduce transport emissions by 70% by 2030 but also to have completely fossil-free journeys in 2045, we need to ensure that we can find more fossil-free alternatives, and both biofuels and, not least, electric flights provide this opportunity. The government's priority is, of course, to look at the infrastructure conditions for this shift, and it is important throughout the country and not only in the Stockholm region. But, of course, we must also look at the conditions for aviation operators to make that change. It is about taxation, about environmentally differentiated take-off and landing charges and a variety of things that we can now do to enable the aircraft to reset. About that trip, I think Jens Holm and I are in complete agreement.
i-930e02eac663f054-214	Mr. Old President! It is very welcome that the Minister for Infrastructure is talking about a green new deal. We need a green restart. But I want to see the Minister for Infrastructure running a green restart in practice too and not just standing here talking about it. Then we have the whole aviation sector, for example, where we know that emissions are far too large. And we cannot dream of biofuels and electrification. Such things are very far into the future, and we also know that biomass is not enough for us to produce so much fuel. We need to fly less. Flying has now collapsed, but just as the minister says, it actually went down even before the coronapndemine. Then it wouldn't be so strange if we said: Okay, let's start by concentrating on flying to an airport in the Stockholm region. We're not having two. Moving over what in the future may be 1 million passengers to Arlanda with a total of more than 26 million passengers can be done here and now, just as Swedavia states. And they want a quick decision from the government, not that this should be pulled in the long way. What will be the next step for the government regarding Bromma's possible decommissioning? I think it is unfortunate that we Members of Parliament should not be allowed to take part in the whole report. The Minister has probably taken note of the entire report. Surely he could publish the report and make sure that everyone can have access to it. Mr. Old President! I also find it a little strange when the Minister hides behind the Transport Committee. With all due respect to my committee – it's a fine committee, perhaps Parliament's most important committee – but it's probably the government that controls our state companies. And there's a charter for Swedavia that says you should run this business. Now Swedavia says: We cannot operate Bromma airport business-wise, either now or after Corona. They want a decision that Bromma airport will be decommissioned. When is it coming, Tomas Eneroth? I hope it will come soon.
i-930e02eac663f054-219	Mr. Old President! I don't think anyone can mistake either the commitment or the willingness to quickly close down Bromma from Jens Holm's side. But I also think that most people realise that when we deal with issues relating to airport structures or, for that matter, infrastructure in general, the government must put this into perspective. We need to look at it in a societal perspective but also see the situation we are in right now with a pandemic with dramatic effects on travel. We shall, of course, thoroughly analyse the report that came in less than a month ago and, of course, also come back. Jens Holm says that biofuels and electric flights are far into the future. It doesn't; it's here now. It is now that we have the opportunity to increase the involvement of biofuels and to ensure that there are better conditions than ever for the production of biofuels in particular. Let it hopefully be Swedish or Nordic too, so that we reduce the climate footprint even more. This is where the development of electric air traffic is taking place. I was in Gothenburg just a few weeks ago and visited the opening of an electric flight engine to a 19-person plan, which Heart Aerospace presented. They think this plane will be up by 2025. When just a few years ago you got reports of electric air traffic development, this was 10 – 15 years ahead, so it's fast now. And it is fast because the political signals are clear that the change is taking place. It's fast because the pressure from the surroundings to reset is great. Market forces are quick to see this and to channel research and development resources to it. It will go faster, and in that sense I am a tech optimist. We will be able to cope with the changeover; I am convinced of that.
i-930e02eac663f054-224	Mr. Old President! Patrik Jönsson has asked me two questions about the introduction of Ertms in Sweden. Ertms is an EU-wide signalling system for railways. It aims to enable efficient cross-border train traffic. Sweden and the other Member States are obliged under EU law to introduce Ertms on the core network by 2030. For Sweden, the ERTMS project is, in addition to a project to promote cross-border rail traffic, to be regarded as a maintenance and reinvestment project. The new signalling system replaces a worn-out facility, drives digitalisation and simplifies traffic management. Ertms is a more modern system with better reliability and lower maintenance costs compared to the current system. EU support for investment in Ertms on-board equipment has been available in instalments. Several Swedish railway companies have applied for and received EU support. In order to strengthen the competitiveness of the railways, the government has invested approximately SEK 760 million in the form of environmental compensation for rail freight transport in the period 2018–2020. In the budget proposal for 2021, the Government proposes that environmental compensation be extended and further developed. This means that SEK 400 million per year is allocated between 2021 and 2025. It is therefore investing heavily in rail infrastructure as well as in rail operators. The Finnish Transport Agency has overall responsibility for planning one and the introduction of Ertms in the infrastructure of the Swedish rail system. The implementation planning shall be carried out in close cooperation with representatives of the equipment industry, railway undertakings and other traffic organisers. The Swedish Transport Administration has made it clear that operating conditions are only made if the system meets the quality requirements. I assume that Trafikverket will live up to this and will keep me informed of how the work is progressing.
i-930e02eac663f054-231	Mr. Old President! I thank Tomas Eneroth for his answer. For the sake of the debate, I want to make it clear that the Swedish Democrats are well aware of how old many of Sweden's switchboards are. About a third is well on the verge of having to be decommissioned acutely. The cost of this project as a whole is estimated at 30 billion, so it is not a small sum. However, we see the benefits of this with, among other things, better punctuality and lower maintenance costs. I remember well when this project was rolled out on the Botnia Line in 2010. I was then employed by the Swedish Transport Administration as a power and rail operator, and I followed it with great interest. This course was first out with Ertms, and this system was very busy. Expectations were high, but one can say that unfortunately there was a pancake of everything with lots of cancelled and delayed trains. It took about three years before traffic started to flow. This was a big talkie in the work. One of the major problems was that the trains were emergency-stopped out on the line for no reason. The night train had to be diverted to the North Main Line because of this. Ertms also delayed the renovation of Ådalsbanan. But the stick wins, and finally the problems were overcome. The Botnia track today has high punctuality, and the number of failures linked to the signalling system is lower than on the corresponding routes with ATC. Now to my questions, and I will start with the first: how does the Minister intend to act in order to ensure that the deployment of the ERTMS system is not carried out so early that serious operational disruptions occur in the rail system? Public transport associations visited the Transport Committee on 10 September to provide information on the state of public transport and the ongoing Corona crisis. It appeared that public transport is experiencing major economic and staffing problems as a result of travel restrictions during the Corona crisis. During the current draw, it was argued that it is unfortunate that, under such circumstances, train companies are expected to make major investments to adapt their locomotives to the new EU Ertms signalling system. But the problems don't stop here. Four months ago, the Swedish Transport Administration announced that it is not yet ready to test the new technology – this despite the fact that only last spring it claimed that the system was ready for roll-out. The Swedish Transport Administration is now focusing on the fact that the version of Ertms for the pilot tracks to be used in the large installation at Malmbanan 2022, which would be put into use in week 45 in autumn, will instead be put into use in week 17 spring 2021. This doesn't feel safe. In any case, it flashes warning lights for me. Several of Parliament's parties, including the Swedish Democrats, have called for the introduction of Ertms to be postponed until the Swedish Transport Administration can demonstrate that implementation can take place without the risk of major operational disruptions. However, I have not seen such a thing in the Committee on Transport and Tourism. From the brief response I received from the Government, it is stated that, according to EU legislation, we should be ready for implementation by 2030 and that Ertms promotes cross-border traffic and has lower maintenance costs. However, I note that if this is to be bad, there is no cross-border traffic at all as there is no functioning facility to run on and not enough ERTMS equipped vehicles. I therefore welcome a fuller response from Minister Eneroth on whether the plan remains at all costs or whether the Government is considering postponing implementation or, in any case, giving instructions to the Finnish Transport Agency to start with less disrupting paths after the Malmbanan.
i-930e02eac663f054-243	Mr. Old President! I appreciate Patrik Jönsson's honest presentation of the introduction of Ertms. It is true that there were great concerns at the beginning with malfunctions, technical failures and adjustment problems, and it really affected Ådalsbanan. Then it has worked very well with five times higher punctuality, I think, and very good reliability. This shows that this system can be of great benefit not least to a railway system with capacity problems. Although in almost every context I argue in favour of building more rail and extending the rail system, because it needs to be done, there is no doubt that with the increase we have in rail travel, and it will certainly take off even after the pandemic, we will have to contend with capacity problems in the future. Modern signalling and management systems are therefore crucial. There is no doubt that these investments are expensive. However, for those who have not followed the debate but are now doing so online, it is important to say that at the moment we are slowing down, postponing, closing down or ignoring Ertms, there will be not only a discussion about whether we are fulfilling our commitment as a Member State to the European Union, but about what options we have. The ATC, the old signalling system, is not reliable and would then need to be renovated, which Patrik Jönsson also mentions. I am following this closely, because it is a matter of great resources. That is also why we have been careful to point out the conditions, in order to help train operators with investments, in the form of existing EU support. However, the government is taking the big cost in the implementation of Ertms. It should be reliable and accurate, and to the extent that there are delays in implementation in this situation, it is mainly because the Swedish Transport Administration wants and should be sure that the best conditions for putting the system into operation are in place. I assume and assume that the Swedish Transport Administration is doing its very best, but that during the current pandemic there may be the kind of reasons that make it possible for there to be delays. I can assure Patrik Jönsson that I will follow the implementation closely. I know that the issue has been in the Committee on Transport and Tourism many times, but so far the committee has supported the implementation of Ertms because it has come to the same conclusion as the government, namely that at this point there is no alternative to back-up and in that sense to equip an obsolete ATC system with equipment which, quite rightly, would need to be replaced even more quickly. Rather, it is about ensuring the development of costs, the implementation of technology and the conditions for train operators. As regards the conditions for train operators, Patrik Jönsson raised public transport representatives. We should be aware that, at the initiative of the Government and with the approval of the Riksdag, we have so far contributed SEK 5 billion to public transport in order to improve the financial conditions for dealing with the pandemic. Those who run and are responsible for public transport – Sweden's Municipalities and Regions – have received the largest increase in state funding ever – general state grants. We have thus given good and good economic conditions to cope with the tension that it all entails. I assure Patrik Jönsson that we will follow the development of Ertms closely. I think it is important to realise that it will be able to lead to improved accessibility, punctuality and management of rail traffic.
i-930e02eac663f054-252	Mr. Old President! The Minister for Infrastructure beats his chest for the government's investment in public transport because of Corona. It is true that the public transport companies are in need of it, but it is not meant to be used in any way to implement Ertms. I want to make it clear that the government will only allocate EUR 2 billion next year, while the Swedish Democrats will allocate a total of EUR 8 billion to compensate for the major revenue shortfalls that we see and which are probably in line with the revenue shortfall in 2020 also in 2021. However, if we stick to the subject of Ertms, I can say that several EU countries, just as we have chosen to slow the roll-out and will not be able to complete by 2030, which is the target. It will in all likelihood need to be revised. I think the Minister for Infrastructure sees a great opportunity or probability in that. On the question of aid to train operators, Ertms is a costly project for industry operators. For each vehicle to be equipped with Ertms, it costs an average of about 10 million for a pilot installation. So it is not putting a pilot in the locomotive, it is the first locomotive to be called a pilot installation. Then it costs just over 3 million for serial installation, i.e. coming locomotives. It is a cost that operators are forced to bear but which they see no personal gain from. It may seem that a cost of between 3 and 10 million per locomotive is a small cost, but it must be borne in mind that, for example, for the Green Cargos part, around 400 locomotives need to be equipped with the new technology. I have not counted on it and do not know if there are 2 000 or 2 500 locomotives in the country, but there are many to be equipped. If we add to it the workshop job itself that needs to be done, there will be a couple of days' work per locomotive, in an industry that is already experiencing staffing problems. Some older locomotives also lack documentation, which makes installation work difficult and slow. The industry, which already has a shortage of resources and staff today, has these major problems. According to Gustaf Engstrand at the Train companies, neither the commercial nor the regional transport companies will be able to equip their trains until 2023, as the ERTMS technology is supposed to be implemented on the Södra Stambanan, among other things. In particular, it is worrying to choose the South Main Line, which has so much traffic. The Minister for Infrastructure is no doubt aware that the premature introduction of the ERTMS system is likely to result in a shortage of vehicles and disruption of operation in large parts of the network, as trains not equipped with the technology are unable to operate on the lines equipped with Ertms. Using these known factors to implement Ertms on the main routes at an early stage is associated with an obvious risk of both major malfunctions and vehicle failure. With regard to the answer to my question on whether the Minister is willing to reconsider his position not to provide support to the train operators in the work of installing Ertms on board, I take it as a no. The answer refers to any possibility of applying for EU aid, which Mr Eneroth mentioned and which, if I have seen correctly, can cover up to half the cost of the installation, as well as the environmental compensation of 400 million per year to 2025. First of all, however, it is not certain that EU support will continue when the cost of Ertms runs out in other countries, and the objective of environmental compensation is not to implement Ertms. Green Cargo bleeds, and SJ bleeds. Where are they going to get the money? Of course we can give them ownership support, but then there will be a distortion of competition. In the end, it will be the customer, that is, the traveller or the transport buyer, who will have to pay through increased prices, and this will not lead to the transfer of either goods or passengers from road to rail. I regret the attitude of the government on this issue.
i-HQPcZRcrxeUXCv84z9nhS3	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Patrik Jönsson, for the commitment! As I said earlier, I think it is important that both the Parliament's Transport Committee and the Government closely follow the implementation of Ertms, both in Sweden and internationally. It is about a proper upgrading of the European rail system, and this is necessary and desirable. The year 2021 has been designated the year of rail transport in the EU, and it would have been extremely unfortunate if it were to be a year in which sufficient investments in the rail system would be postponed or not. Europe, like Sweden, needs to adapt its transport systems. Rail systems are climate-smart. The majority is powered by electricity, not least in Sweden, and this means that we can transfer even more goods and, for that matter, passenger traffic to what is sustainable in the long term. The question of financial support for the various train operators has been examined by Parliament on several occasions, most recently in the budget of the previous year. Then it didn't get support. I also believe that the Swedish Democrats at that time did not support the proposal in Parliament to provide financial support to train operators. Essentially, the state accounts for a large part of the investment, and then we point to the possibilities for train operators to apply for, not least, EU funds. But let's say we're in a pandemic. We are in a situation where the conditions for the whole of Transportsverige change, and just as we have reasoned with regard to aviation and shipping, of course we should not exclude other types of efforts to ensure that we have good conditions for transport in Sweden. This was one of the reasons why we in the government chose to account for 400 million extra annually in the budget, not least in environmental compensation, to the freight companies in order to give them better economic conditions at a time when they, like many others, are being tested hard. That's how it has to work during a pandemic. When both passenger transport and goods transport are severely affected, we must use our common resources to ensure that operators can continue to carry out their tasks and that freight transport, food security, imports and exports work. This has worked relatively well, and I have reported it to the committee on a number of occasions. We must also ensure that passenger traffic, which is severely affected, is well placed. We have now given a total of EUR 5 billion to public transport and other support to shipping companies and air traffic in order to maintain capacity. We have even had to procure special air traffic to ensure socially important transport. Of course, I do not see this as an argument for postponing important modernisations, digitalisations or climate action. Therefore, the government's announcement is that we will continue with the implementation of Ertms. Of course, this should be done in an insecure manner. Of course, it should be done with careful cost control, and it should be ensured that it is the right equipment that is tested and tested and then started. And of course it is the Swedish Transport Administration that has the task to complete the implementation of Ertms. Once it is extended, it will serve the Swedish rail system well and will be able to cope with both capacity and availability and, above all, which I think many who follow the debate appreciate, punctuality.
i-930e02eac663f054-268	Mr. Old President! At the end, Tomas Eneroth comes in a little bit on the core of the matter. I know Tomas Eneroth so much that I know he's a wise master. If it turns out that it is going really bad when we roll out the implementation of Ertms on Malmbanan– it can not possibly go as bad as on the Botnia Line; I have very hard to believe that – it is my absolute hope that the Minister for Infrastructure is willing to stop the roll-out until the Finnish Transport Administration can really ensure that this can be done in a safe way for the rail system in that it does not cause interference. I would very much like to have some kind of answer to this, and I hope that instead of rolling out Ertms on the Southern Main Line in particular and others of the most important tracks, they will choose routes that are simply less disrupting. Sweden is not the valet of more interference in the rail system, but of less interference. I would very much like to hear some kind of feedback on this. Finally, I just want to say this: OK, you have made your choice not to support the train operators in the roll-out of Ertms. I can only regret that. We have chosen – right or wrong – to add, among other things, 4 billion extra next year in addition to the Government in investments to Trafikverket and half a billion extra in addition to the Government's funding for maintenance. We also significantly increase the Swedish Transport Administration's framework. I had very much liked to see some kind of similar initiative by the government and that some of this could benefit the train operators through support to implement Ertms in the vehicles.
i-930e02eac663f054-272	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Patrik Jönsson, for a good discussion and debate on Ertms! It's probably not the last one, because this will be an implementation that goes on for a long time. I think there are many of us who will follow it. It is of course a tough task for Trafikverket with implementation. In order to reassure Patrik Jönsson, I can say that this was one of the reasons why I say in my reply that commissioning is only done if the system meets the quality requirements that are imposed. I assume the Finnish Transport Administration will live up to this. We can't afford major disruptions in Swedish rail systems, but we can't afford to refrain from making the investments needed for us to have good punctuality and availability in the long term. This is the basic problem: We have for a very long time allowed ourselves to invest in Swedish railway systems and have therefore during these years worked very hard to catch up with railway maintenance, with investments, with renovations and with repairs. I think many travelers have noticed that distances have been closed. The Getingmidjan was closed last summer, and three summers in a row we have therefore closed off a vital part of the Swedish railway system. But we've done it to finally get the time and space to renovate fundamentally. Now that traffic is opening, it's a completely different hornet waist. There is a train a minute on the route, and then punctuality will be improved. It is the basic renovation that we have been working on in this government and the former Social Democratic-led government because we choose to prioritise investments in infrastructure, and not least climate-smart investments, before tax cuts.
i-930e02eac663f054-277	Mr. Old President! Alexandra Anstrell has asked me what measures I intend to take to prevent the number of places of study for upper secondary education from being reduced, how I intend to deal with the problem of teacher shortages in upper secondary and secondary education and what measures I intend to take to promote Swedish public health through sports education. The government believes that it is important to have special sports education in upper secondary and secondary schools so that young people who are elite in their sport can at the same time have the opportunity to bring with them an upper secondary education so that they are equipped for the future, both during and after an elite sport venture. Therefore, on 17 July, the Ministry of Education referred sports education in upper secondary and upper secondary schools (U2020/04134). The proposals in the memorandum are based on problems with current sports educations that have been highlighted by the Swedish National Agency for Education, the Swedish Sports Federation and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. During the review carried out within the Ministry of Education, discussions have also taken place with school leaders and special sports federations. Problems that are raised and that relate to the interpellier's issues include the fact that the nationally approved sports programmes, known as NIU, have greatly expanded and that it is not only young people who are elite in their sport who attend these courses, despite the fact that they must have an elite sports character under the Upper Secondary Education Regulation. Another problem that has been raised is the lack of teachers. The purpose of sports education with special sports in upper secondary and upper secondary schools is for the pupils who attend them to receive an education together with others who are also at the elite level within their age group. Students can then exchange experiences and share the challenges of an elite sport initiative combined with an upper secondary education. However, young people who are not elite athletes within their age category but still wish to pursue sport should continue to be given the opportunity to practise sport in upper secondary school studies, as referred to in the proposal. It is just as important that special sport education is reserved for young people who belong to elite athletes. Therefore, the Ministry of Education in the memorandum proposes that the syllabuses in the field of sport and health that enable sports initiatives should be reviewed by the National Board of Education so that they can be better adapted to the development of an selected sport only. In this way, principals who so desire can offer an upper secondary education that is combined with an investment in a particular sport. The needs of both elite and other sports students will thus be better addressed than today. Swedish public health is promoted in various ways within the school system, not only in the field of sport and health, but also in other subjects and through student health. In sports education, it is important to emphasise the value of balance between sport, study and leisure. It is also important that young people have access to skills that may be needed for their health in this particular situation, such as nutrition and injury prevention. The lack of teachers is a major problem not only in sports education, but throughout the school system. It is appropriate to consider measures to address the need for teachers in the field of special sports, in particular in connection with the other measures taken by the government to reduce the shortage of teachers. With regard to the specific issue of teachers in special sports, the memorandum states that the School of Gymnastics and Sport, together with the other higher education institutions that organises special sports education for future teachers, should develop methods for how professional teachers in the subject can reach identification and eligibility – which would be a step in the right direction. Validation is important in this context and, where appropriate, also some subject-specific additions, taking into account, among other things, the previous knowledge and experience of trainers. I would also like to point out that there is nothing to prevent the school heads, along with qualified and qualified teachers on the subject of special sports, from complementing with trainers who are experts in a particular sport. I am therefore following the matter closely and will take note of the points of consultation on the memo and then carefully consider any changes that need to be made.
i-930e02eac663f054-287	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answers! I am pleased and grateful that there are suggestions in the memorandum to resolve the financing of certain material provided by pupils or guardians. However, in the bill there are some other questions that I wonder about. That is precisely what I have asked the Minister about. I wonder what measures the Minister intends to take to prevent a reduction in the number of places for education and training that allow for the exercise of sport in upper secondary education, how the Minister intends to deal with the problem of the lack of teachers in education and what measures the Minister intends to take to promote Swedish public health through sports education. Mr. Old President! I understood that the answer to my first question was that today there are too many NIU and LIU courses and that not everyone is up to the mark. So the proposal is to close them down instead. I think that proposal seems strange. If something is not good, is it not better to be clearer in the regulatory framework and have good results follow-up? This is a rather common approach when you want to achieve better quality. Closure of NIU and LIU, as described in the memorandum, would mean approximately a halving of today's over 9,000 sites. NIU and LIU still give a slightly higher quality stamp compared to just replacing them with giving more schools the opportunity to give the subject special sports. It is said that four out of five people who have reached our national teams have gone through a sports gymnasium, not just the RIG. Students attending these upper secondary schools get the opportunity for adapted studies, nutrition aid and mental training. They get to train in their school hours. But even today, therefore, there are young people who end up in sport because they do not come up with any of the options available. If the government now chooses to propose that the number of seats be halved, I think there will be even more dropping out. I understand that this is a difficult issue to solve. However, just because one issue is difficult to resolve, I do not think that it can be solved simply by closing down the activities. Mr. Old President! As far as my second question on dealing with the lack of teachers is concerned, I have received good answers from the Minister. The answer highlighted in the memorandum is that GIH, together with other higher education institutions that organise education on the subject of special sports for future teachers, should develop methods for professional teachers on the subject of obtaining identification and eligibility. I really believe that this is a step in the right direction. I think the validation is a good thing, and I certainly agree with the Minister for Education. However, it is not as simple as that if we just educate them this will work out. We need more people who want to and can. To be noted, not all schools may be able to offer a full - time service. That particular sport may only need a trainer or a special sports teacher at, say, 50 percent. In that case, the coach may have his own firm and do something else too and may not want to be an employee but be his own. Many people are multi-disciplinary in that category. Then I think it's gonna be really hard for a school to hire someone who can't work just 50 percent. If we do not release the possibility of hiring someone on a contract basis, I believe that this will be a major obstacle. I think that possibility is very important, not least in many small towns. There are many gymnasies in the country, and there must be conditions for everyone to be involved. Wouldn't the Minister agree?
i-930e02eac663f054-295	Mr. Old President! I thank Minister Anna Ekström for her reply to the Conservatives' interpellation on sports gymnasies. After all, the proposal sent out by the Ministry is based only partly on the announcement made by the Riksdag on the initiative of the Education Committee just over a year ago to review the issue of fees for elite education linked to sports upper secondary schools. It is in this part that we have called on the government to come back with clarifications and to make it possible under certain conditions, not least in the case of expensive education and training with expensive equipment, to make exceptions in the School Act so that criticism from the State School Inspection is avoided. I have looked at the memo – the government has nevertheless approved its sending out, and it is clear that the government can influence the content and what you want to refer to in its proposals – and it surprises me that a Social Democratic government is sending out a proposal that means far fewer gymnasiums and even more focus on elites, at the risk of it happening at the expense of breadth. All politicians and colleagues around the country who have heard from them, commented and made contributions say: We want both elite effort and breadth. All research and all public health studies on sports education say that we have to mate and defend these together. If that is the case, Mr President-in-Office, that there is a lack of follow-up, of quality, of financial management, of intermunicipal compensation, and of all these technical elements, then that is what we should be focusing on. And this is not something that just pops up, but it is the state, represented by the National Agency for Education and the State's school inspection, that makes an assessment and approves these sports gymnasiums that the municipalities finance. There is therefore already state control, but it is clear that that is where it has broken. The national quality control and licensing process have clearly failed. It is also a criticism of the government's own authorities. I am not satisfied, Mr President-in-Office, when the government refers to reviewing the curricula. We've just reviewed the curriculum for the school system. Just over a month ago, the government decided on the new curricula. It's not a job that you can only start hips as happy. We Liberals are saying: tighten up the regulatory framework! Get the rogues out of here! Make sure the money is used correctly! If there are justified heavy criticisms from both the National Sports Federation and the Special Associations, we will listen to it, but then we will create a national quality system that clears out the rogues but protects both elite and breadth. I sincerely hope that the Government will be able to tell us today that she will secure both. Not only me, but also the representatives, the municipalities, are extremely concerned about whether or not local and regional sports education will be allowed to remain if the government's proposals go through.
i-930e02eac663f054-302	Mr. Old President! Special sports programmes play a major role for many students at our schools who have both RIG, NIU and LIU. They have become a way to profile themselves as a school, but also as a municipality. Four out of five people who have reached our national teams have gone through a sports gymnasium. Those who don't come in usually end up with sports, unfortunately. There are no other roads outside of high school. According to the government, the number of sports students is to be halved. This will affect children's and youth sports as a whole. This may lead to young people having to specialise earlier than today, while we also know that Bre d sport is incredibly important. Mora high school has had cross-country skiing, ski orientation, hockey, floorball and football for a long time. In total, 40 percent of the students – or 330 students – attend a sports programme at Mora Upper Secondary School. Of these, there are 40 at RIG, 112 at NIU and 178 at LIU. The SCB's study on living conditions, Children's-Barn-ULF, shows that about 60 percent of young people in their 12 to 18s were engaged in sports in clubs or clubs during 2017 – 2018. In 2019 there were about 882,000 people in Sweden who had assignments as leaders, judges or other members of the association, according to RF and SCB. Sport engages and plays a role in Swedish society. I am very concerned that sport will now be reduced among young people when RIG will be the only option for sports at upper secondary level. This will be very negative for young sportsmen, but also for a sports municipality such as Mora.
i-930e02eac663f054-306	Mr. Old President! I want to thank you for this amazing display of love and concern for our youth sports. It warms the heart of a minister of education! I have a few brief comments to make. First of all, as the regulatory framework today stands, the aim of this type of sports upper secondary school that we are now discussing is that it will be possible to combine an elite initiative with upper secondary school studies. That purpose is very important. It is important for young people who want to be elite in their sport to also be able to go to high school and complete their upper secondary education and for there to be both practical and appealing opportunities for young people to be fully committed to their elite sports. But the regulations are written so that it should be about an elite initiative, and the background to this memorandum has been developed are the signals that have come not only from the Swedish National Agency for Education but also from the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, the Swedish Sports Federation and some special sports federations that the system has not functioned satisfactorily. These are not new signals, but these are signals that have been coming for a number of years. Another thing I really want to point out and remind you of is that the Swedish school has a mission in its curricula and curricula to ensure that there is an opportunity for all students to be physically active during the school day and during the school week. It is by no means something that should be reserved only for those students who attend national sports gymnasium or today's NIU or LIU. I would also like to remind you that there is no contradiction in any way between the desire for a wide-ranging approach to sport and the desire for an elite initiative. In my world, the elite young people are stimulating many young people who are investing in the breadth, and the existence of a broad sport is, of course, the prerequisite for there to be an elite. May I remind you of one more thing that should perhaps be self-evident. It is that what we are now discussing is not a bill, which I think Alexandra Anstrell wrongly happened to say in her first line, but it is a memo. It has been sent out and developed within the Ministry of Education. We send it out for a referral for a single reason, and that is that we want comments. We are interested in comments on this proposal. That the memorandum has been developed in close cooperation with both the Swedish municipalities and the Regions and the National Sports Federation should serve because it is a memo that has a fairly strong support. But of course the government will listen to and take on board the views expressed in the consultation round. That, Madam President, is the very reason for having a consultation session. One last point I would like to make before thanking you for the floor this time, and that is that Roger Haddad made a point of looking at the curricula now that we have just changed the curricula for primary school. I would like to remind you that what we are discussing here is secondary education. The curricula that we changed just a few months ago in close cooperation between the government and, among other things, the Liberals were curricula for primary school.
i-930e02eac663f054-314	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'm thinking that this researching talent isn't easy, especially at young age. Then it is good that there are many to look among. In 2019 it was reported that 12 per cent of the Swedish four-year-olds suffer from overweight or obesity. There are great differences between children in rich and poor areas, between town and rural areas and between boys and girls. Overweight children get harder in school and have less self-esteem. It is said that today only 11% of all 14-year-old girls and 17% of boys are regularly physically active for one hour a day. The rest are so-called couch potatoes. One might wonder why it looks like that and what is being done to reverse that trend. Madam President, I would like The government's national coordinator to promote increased physical activity wrote on DN Debate the other day that our sedentary life is the most dangerous pandemic. I quote from the article: a lot of exercise is easy to believe when we see people jogging. It's not like that. A small group often exercise several times a week, while an increasing group is completely inactive. We must reverse that trend. ..................................................... Furthermore, he writes, "Just a few decades ago, most people moved enough every day. They walked and cycled and naturally got together the recommended dose of physical activity. Today there is polarisation: either you go to the gym and you run in the woods. Or you sit completely still. The sedentary group is getting bigger. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I wonder if the Minister does not agree that the proposal in the Government memo to reduce the number of places in our sports gymnasiums is rather incongruent with the mission to promote increased physical activity. Then, too, sports themselves add much of the structure to many young people. All sports have rules during the competitions, all sports require training and other preparations, and at a slightly higher level, elite level, it is also required that elite young people travel to competitions, participate in training camps and much more in order to succeed in their sport. It's gonna take a little more. Sport provides young people with physical activity, absolutely, but they also get a lot more. Many who find it difficult to concentrate are given a tool to concentrate better. The vast majority now agree that without physical activity it is almost impossible to get proper rest. Our bodies are designed to be used, and if we do not allow the body to be used, not many of the hormones that allow us to sleep at night, for example, are secreted. The minister himself noted that many elite athletes are good role models for young people. Then I think that there is a greater breadth even in elite sports – you don't have to have elite elite. I think it is important to try to give the signals that public health is important and that sport is important. I don't think it rhymes very well with this in the memo about cutting the number of seats to combine their elite sports with high school studies. Wouldn't it be a better idea to keep both NIU and LIU, steer the regulations and quality while opening up for more schools to give the subject special sports?
i-930e02eac663f054-323	Madam President, I would like We delivered comprehensive school curricula and a number of subject plans. A number of programme structures were also reviewed for upper secondary school. It goes without saying that high school will also change from 1 July next year. Since the announcement was already known in this question area, the upper secondary schools, it would have been possible to take the opportunity when the National Board of Education was still at it. That's my point. The essence of our criticism and concern, Madam President, is that this memorandum sent out by the government will have the consequence that the breadth will be adversely affected. Up to half of the number of educational places in the country can smoke while all politicians regardless of the colour say that we should stimulate sport, that we should protect and support movement, that we should move more and that research and all studies show that it also has a positive impact on learning. In fact, some of these secondary schools at municipal level have managed to turn the results from being schools that have been sought away from to actively seek out to them because they have the direction approved by the State College or the School Inspectorate. I think we should embrace that and preserve it. It is not yet clear, Madam President, how these schools will continue to operate. That's what I wish the Council of State would make a little comment. It is not enough to refer to the fact that this will be solved and even better than today and to give an assignment to the National Agency for Education to review the curriculum. The respondents, i.e. the municipalities and a number of independent schools – I have only had contact with municipal schools – are concerned and do not see the obvious solution that the government addresses.
i-930e02eac663f054-327	Madam President, I would like Once again, I have to say thank you for the commitment shown to our sports youth. I will just briefly remind you of some important points of departure. The first starting point of the memorandum that is sent out is to ensure that we get more national sports gymnasies, more high schools where we can feel 100% confident that the students get an elite sports venture in combination with their upper secondary education. It's gotten a little lost on these issues. But that is an important starting point. The memo suggests many more places at national sports gymnasies. Another point I would like to remind you in this debate, which is delighted that young people are doing sports, is that it is important to remember that today's national sports gymnasiums, national sports trainings and local sports trainings do not reach full grades. They reach a smaller part of the youth. The proposed proposal makes it clear that even young people who are not elite, those who – if it is only – want to use their sports time in high school for the development of an elected sport, should have a better chance of doing so. Personally, I think it is an important thing that a proper and strong commitment to sport and health within the framework of upper secondary education should not only be reserved, as it stands today in the legislative text, as elites. It should also be able to relate to development. Madam President, I would like Last but not least, I have now explained a little about the reasons why the memorandum is designed in the way it is. I would like to say as it is: the reason why you send things out for a referral is that you want to get comments. I have heard a number of comments here in the speaker's chair. Some have been about students' opportunities to develop and move. Some more have been about the opportunities of municipalities and free schools to market and profile themselves. But we are united in the desire that the Swedish gymnasium students should have good and rich opportunities to develop within a sport. I am convinced that we will find good solutions that will lead to that.
i-930e02eac663f054-333	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for all the reminders and for the answer! I wonder what they are going to say to the students about the proposal that has now been referred to them. It's a good thing it's out for a referral. But only when something is sent out for a referral do many people think that is what will apply. I think many will think: Is their education not good enough? Is it the very one who will be singled out so as not to be of good quality? Is it so bad that it has to be shut down? What signals does it send to young people and, in fact, to the whole of society? The minister said they were going to find more RIGs, but not as many places as there are today, right? I think it gives a signal that it is only the elite elite that counts and that everyone else is unimportant. I also think that it gives a signal that the elite bet early, far down in the ages, in order to get one of the desirable places. Let's not forget that finding talent has to take some time. The basic idea has been to try to postpone it higher than before. A closure of half of all opportunities to really bet on their sport while being able to manage their school I think would be really harmful to the whole of Sports Sweden. We all know it's important to get through school. Then you'll be fine in life. We also know how good it is with sports initiatives for students' leadership and structure, for the whole well-being. Madam President, I would like Of course, it would be better if more people could combine their energy sport with their schooling for real and get the chance to get education in nutrition, mental training and so on. It would improve public health overall. Wouldn't the Minister agree?
i-930e02eac663f054-338	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell asks me what signals the government wants to send by handing out the memo. An important signal is that we want comments. We want to ensure that there is an opportunity for the large and broad popular movement that sport is, among other things, to give feedback and answers to the referral. Another important signal is that we want it to be possible to combine elite athletes with high-quality secondary education. We want them to be able to go to high school as well. Another signal is that we like to see special sports as a subject developed, also in such a way that it can help young people develop in their sport and that more people will have the chance to do so. Another signal could be that physical activity is something that we want more, not less, of in the Swedish school in general and in the Swedish upper secondary school. Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for this debate. It's always nice to debate about school. It is extra fun to debate a subject that engages as much as upper secondary school in combination with sport. I see this debate as an expression of how important we think that upper secondary school is, but also how important it is to be able to combine upper secondary school with an active sports interest. I and the government will take note of the comments that come to the referral memorandum. I look forward to continuing to discuss this matter with the Members of this House.
